ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1915	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places and open them at the time, namely, on 16 May. May, 9 o'clock, 25th. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 23. Meeting of 11. ==References== Meeting of 12. May have been properly consulted and left without opposition. They are therefore considered approved. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gerhard Bauer, Ortlieb and Schieder. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e1952	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to the written notice distributed in the meeting room within the meaning of § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 462/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2089	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that I have the desire, based on § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a brief debate on the reply 462/AB to Question 407/J by Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades on "Initiative Quality" by Mrs Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations. This short debate is taking place because I assume that the sitting will not end before 3 p.m., at 3 p.m. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2113	I should also like to say that Mr Jarolim has requested that the Committee on Justice report on MEPs' request for 127/A. Posch and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the criminal code, a period of time until the 1st century. In July 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. In this context, five Members have asked to hold a debate on this request for a deadline. This desire shall be accepted. The short debate on the deadline request will take place following the short debate on the request. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2138	We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2159	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of the debates in such a way as to propose a day-block time of 9 "Vienna hours". This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. The rules governing the taking into account of the term of office of the members of the government correspond exactly to those laid down by agreement at the last and the previous meeting. This also applies to the speaking time of the State Secretary, who, if exceeded for 10 minutes, is counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The National Council is to be found on this issue. I therefore ask: On the other hand, are there any objections? – This is not the case. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously. Advisory Group X Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2204	We come to the negotiation of the consultative group X. Does the rapporteur wish to initiate the debate? This is not the case. We are therefore entering the actual debate. I call Mr Parnigoni. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2239	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal People's Party! In the transport policy sector, you have been very successful in the 100 days: In record time, they have caused a consistent and comprehensive break with the previous successful, socially and ecologically oriented Austrian transport policy! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you explain that?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You have also succeeded in permanently reducing vehicle registration fees, vignette prices, engine-related insurance tax, between 2 000 S and 3 000 S. The driver now has to "bleach" every year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So we can pay your debts, Parnigoni!]] For the liberals, the Vignette plans are absolutely absurd, said my colleague Firlinger of the Freedom Party in July 1999. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the price of the toll vignette for the car will be increased from 550 S to 1 000 S, under the compassion of this Mr Firlinger! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So we can pay your debts!]] The leadership of the club under Mr. Westenthaler announced in November 1998 If the government's massive tax plans are implemented, the FPÖ will organise the resistance of the forested and outraged drivers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are you still a traffic speaker?]] – I can’t feel anything about resistance! But those who call for resistance to this government want, ladies and gentlemen, to punish in memory of times long past; and then do not even stop in front of the Federal President! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links==* Official website November of the previous year stated: The increase in the admission fee is a blow in the face for all those who have been committed to privatisation. – Well, Helmut Kukacka, the cheeks still have to burn you decently, because you and Mr Firlinger have explained that you will make a request to prevent this increase – until today I have found no one. But I'll give you a chance. I have tabled such a request, and you can now keep your election promise, you can agree to the SPÖ's request so that you do not lose your face, Mr Kukacka and Mr Firlinger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Liberal People's Party, without any ecological insight, has also increased the motor insurance tax by 51 percent. For a middle class car, this means an increase of 1 300 s annually. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You can't do that anyway, because you have one of the top classes!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have really lost the title "protection power of the drivers" and have really served as "protection power of the drivers". [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Fuel price increase is socially balanced?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal People's Party! The government has drained the drivers, that is one thing, but one could also assume that with these measures you might want to force the drivers, essentially commuters, perhaps to use increased public transport. That's probably your intention. But it is already following the next blow of the blue-black government in the face of the comrades: Due to the cuts in the budget approaches for the year 2000, you have torpeded the last really laborious local transport financing law. They cut the funding for the transport networks by 100 million schilling. In spite of their legal obligation, they refuse to provide additional funding for the countries and municipalities so that they can offer a much improved, more attractive and comprehensive public transport concept. Mr Kukacka! I would like to turn to you, because we have fought together for two years for this local financing law – I would like to say this openly and with recognition that you have made a massive contribution. That is why I am so disappointed and I do not understand that you can now decide on such measures without taking the eyelashes. By 315 million Schilling, you are damaging public transport, and this will lead to massive measures for transport operators, drastic increases in tariffs and stops of transport. The ÖBB have already announced that they are from 1. July will increase the prices for weekly and monthly tickets by 12.5 percent. For a donor from Baden to Vienna, this means that he can pay more for his work around 800 S a year. The blue-black pendler motto: Either as a driver dropped off or as a result of higher rates for unattractive public transport. – This is how you deal with the people in this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! The ÖBB want to save with a blow over 30 railway lines. The "Streichkonzert" of ÖBB, as it stood in the "Standard", will have the effect of actually escalating the problem of daily traffic congestion – for example on the A 23, on which A 1. The pollution of the environment and noise will increase to an unbearable extent. The economic location of Austria will be seriously damaged by these insufficient infrastructure novels. A further misdevelopment is taking place: ==References====External links== May in the "Presse" proudly announces that ÖBB expects a true sensational result in freight transport. – The ÖBB seems to want to become a big player in European freight forwarding. I say quite frankly to you: The Austrian Federal Railways have my full support in these efforts; that is no question at all. But one thing is clear: This can only be allowed if goods transport is transferred to the rail in an ecologically compatible way. The planned removal of secondary railways is therefore totally unacceptable, because this lost the rail connection for many companies, which would mean a further shift of freight to the road. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, 18 000 heavy vehicles are driving every day on the South motorway and 16 000 on the West motorway. Within a few years, an increase of 15,000 to 18,000 trucks was made on the South motorway. Mr Federal Minister, you have a right of guidance. You can pipe back the wild managers of the ÖBB. [[Abg. Young: Who did this "wild manager" determine?]] But what are you doing? – I have only read from you so far that you hide behind Director-General Draxler, that you consider insulting that these are not your demands and that you would slow Draxler down a little. – I can assure you, Federal Minister, that you will need decent brakes to brake Draxler. Believe me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The Draxler is not a freeman, is it?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] ==References====External links== April promised – I quote Mr. Federal Minister, gentlemen of the FPÖ: I will, of course, try to stress and optimize the needs of regional and local transport in future budgetary negotiations. – This reads just a month later like white hoon! Ladies and gentlemen! Like a blue-black thread, the inequality of social weaknesses on the one hand and large businesses on the other hand is due to their transport policy: They have created difficult conditions for local transport. You save 500 million on the phone fee exemption. They increase the motor-related insurance tax, the car tax. All these measures will be taken by households. On the other hand, you do not have to pay any tax increase for motor vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. This is really a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The ARBÖ and ÖAMTC car clubs also say that this is contrary to the principles of tax justice, as the truck traffic is disproportionately demanding the roads. They all know the study of the University of Cambridge – I have often brought it – which says that a single 40-ton truck has the same load on the road surface as on about 163,000 cars during its use. Trucks are therefore primarily responsible for the cost of manufacturing and maintenance in road transport. Ladies and gentlemen – now, of course, I am essentially addressing the ÖVP! At the road pricing for the truck, however, you have called the ASFINAG by 14 billion schilling. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "Crying"? Who "grieved" who?]] And that is an example of what the Austrian People's Party is developing brake skills. – Look out, Mr Westenthaler, because that will be important to you: The ÖVP has prevented the truck toll since 1998! 14 billion schillings have thus gone through the flaws of the ASFINAG. Mr Minister, I can only recommend one thing: Watch out! You're new to your office, and you'll have a lot to recognize. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Just watch out for the Parnigoni!]] Don't put your trust in this black pad! Throw this black brake block off the rails. I can only guess that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, Minister! In the sense of the fair balance between road pricing, realize that foreign trucks can at last pay their share, Mr Westenthaler, and the road network can be significantly expanded. Let me finish. The European Commission describes Austria's environmental transport policy as a model for Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who has negotiated the transit contract, the terrible transit contract? Was that a certain kind of climate?]] The high proportion of freight transport, transit contract, ecopoint system, exhaust gas control, the Austrian initiative for a 3-litre car, all of which are good examples, are building blocks for successful development. We from SPÖ have left you an excellent heritage, Mr. Federal Minister, and we are also willing to support you in the continuation of a successful Austrian transport policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] But one thing we will fight decisively: every lobby-oriented policy! And that is why we reject this budget chapter! The centre of a social democratic transport policy is the country, the citizens, the economy and the interest of the regions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2494	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2521	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Parnigoni, your group, the SPÖ, has not been the supposed protective power of drivers for a long time. She's never been her, and she'll never be her! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Stop putting such whistling rumors into the world. If it had been done by the SPÖ after you, Mr Parnigoni, you would have raised the fuel price from today to tomorrow at 3 p.m. and that would have put the drivers much more strained than this emergency package that the government had to decide. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong! 1 S was that!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] This is not wrong, Mr Edlinger, even if you claim it now. Untrue claims do not come true through repetition. Please take note, Mr Edlinger. – No, you say the untruth! [[Abg. Reheis: That's what hits you yourself!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Why do you always say the untruth?]] I'm not saying the untruth. [[Abg. Edlinger: Yes!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] No, no, no, I know exactly what you've been negotiating and what's been done in your papers. If Mr Parnigoni goes out today and says: We, the driver's protective power, would never have allowed that! I can only laugh! You're absolute spreading the untruth here, you're spreading things here that's never been discussed. On the contrary: They were always looking forward to putting up with the driving as much as possible with the individual, putting them on a stand so that driving would become more expensive and people would just change to the train. That was your concept. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it! That's right!]] You've been doing this for years, and you've never deviated from it. Today, things are supposed to look different. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I don't think you're credible here, because the Freedom Party has always been committed to the interests of the drivers. We were the ones who are not afraid of pointing out to the European Union that there are strong cartel agreements and price distortions in Austria. The European Union has now given us a right to accept this matter, and it will examine the Austrian mineral oil industry. And if we get right, the fuel price will fall. But you claim the opposite and are wrong, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But of course it fits exactly into the ideological image of the reds and the greens: work around it for as long as possible and turn on the petrol price screw until the vision is reached from a petrol price of 30 s. That was the declared goal of the Greens in Germany and Austria and, I believe, is now a long-term goal in the SPÖ brains. You will not be able to dispute this easily, because we will always point it out. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Consider government policy!]] But let us come to some other points of the budget. Mr Parnigoni, it is not we who turn the face off. Our group, our minister, it is this government that is now starting a turnaround in Austrian transport policy. This trend reverse is necessary and overdue. Ladies and gentlemen! The heritage in transport policy, which Mr Federal Minister has left to us out of service One, the fragments, the fragments are indeed not a glorious chapter. I mean, it's high time to question basic things here and go a different way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I welcome the fact that the Federal Minister is now giving clear planning specifications, for example in the Federal Railways, that he says 11 billion schillings are being diverted, so that the railway expansion is no longer resisted, but is quickly built. For this, I believe, he is reaping not only national but also international praise, because this decision is correct and proves that one is actually making the turnaround if one wants only. We want to give the Minister of State the opportunity to re-establish himself in the area of railways. I therefore also welcome the fact that the Federal Minister has announced that a number of planning institutions will be put together in the future, and I am thinking of HL-AG and ÖBB infrastructure. That makes sense and is a year-long liberal demand. I believe that the success will be seen in at the latest one year. On the whole, I would like to say: This is, of course, a economical approach, in all areas of transport, from federal road construction to motorway development and individual rail infrastructure projects. But this is the result of the dictatorship of empty cash that the socialist government, the government has left under a socialist infrastructure and a socialist finance minister. We must of course take note of this dictatorship of empty cash registers. It will take some time for you to do more in the area of infrastructure. But we are working on it, because it is clear to us that infrastructure policy is something like living location policy and that Austria cannot afford to lose the connection internationally. We were about to lose the connection, thanks to your policy of debt making, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can't say that often enough. Therefore, once again: A turnaround is important! - No, we're not outsourcing. [[Abg. Edler: Export to Hungary traffic!]] We operate a more economical but efficient infrastructure policy. It is not enough to spend money alone, Mr Colleague of the ÖBB. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: Drive!]] We have to use the money to make sense, and this new government is ready to do so. I would also like to tell you that some rumors will have to be cleaned up. I refer here to the debate we have held the last time. The SPÖ spokesperson, Mr Parnigoni, really had the floor to go to the speaker's desk and say: Look at this new federal government, look at this finance minister, look at this transport minister who is budgeting for UMTS licenses only 4.2 billion schilling. In reality, however, this Federal Minister, this government will take 56 billion schillings. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He said that!]] – Mr Parnigoni said that! He has thus assumed to the government that from the outset, as it were, from the outset she is debilitating money, creating money from taxpayers. Mr Parnigoni, you really do not know what the whole matter is all about today. But that's your unsavory policy: They make allegations in the room, which are not durable by anything! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What do you do with the money you will take?]] The bear has not yet been laid. And you know very well, Mr Parnigoni, that money is missing everywhere, at all corners and ends – and you bear the responsibility for that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Take note of this, and do not flee constantly on any side tracks where you say: We always wanted...! - They didn't want anything! [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're hurling the drivers and hiding that you're taking 30 billion more in the budget!]] In the last ten years, you've simply put up with the opportunities, I have to say that. You have not taken advantage of your chance, and you have been punished by the voters. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: But we were still the strongest party! The ÖVP was the election winner of the election!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One last word about the sideways: The FPÖ and also the German Federal Minister are against the fact that the management of the Austrian Bundesbahnen now benefits, as it were, from the favor of the hour to shut down the large-style secondary railways. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Why is this a favor of the hour?]] Mr Parnigoni, Draxler is really not a freeman, he is well known to be close to you. So listen. Please stop these stories! [[Abg. Parnigoni: But why is it a favor of the hour?]] We will ensure that, on the one hand, the Federal Railways continue to be saved, but on the other hand, the ÖBB's agreements with the countries and other public institutions will also be respected. Because one thing is clear: The ÖBB are a company that has public interests – as it stands in the ÖBB Act – and if there are these contracts, you have to comply with them. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For that I am!]] Or the Treaty does not apply and must be renegotiated. I am in favour of leaving the Bundesbahnen quite free spaces, where truly spirit trains are on the road to create an alternative replacement traffic – that is not a question – but simply stop 30 secondary trains will not be possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I would therefore call on you not only to look at the budget negatively. It is important to correct some things, and that is painful, but also necessary. But it is in the sense of the Austrian location and a reasonable location policy. I therefore hope that in a few years, Austria will be on the right track again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2837	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the situation which has to be corrected and the actual situation to be dealt with. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2861	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger has claimed that it is the Greens' aim to demand a 30-sp petrol price. [[Abg. Haigermoser: 35 S!]] I'm actually correcting: It has never been the goal of the Greens to establish this fuel price! [[Abg. Haigermoser: 35 S plus VAT!]] On the contrary: We were always in favour of the removal of road performance-dependent mileage while at the same time disbursing an eco-bonus of 10 000 s per person. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! 35 S have asked you!]] – Please read this in our ecological tax concept! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2950	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of a further actual correction. The same rules apply. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e2974	Mr President. Mr Firlinger has claimed that the aim of the Social Democrats was to increase the price of petrol by 3 s. - That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: At 4 p.m.!]] Rather, it is true that, together with the ÖVP, we had planned to increase the petrol price by two stages by 1 S and the diesel price by 40 large in the first stage and by a total of 80 large in the second stage. – That’s the truth! If you have experienced something else on the part of the ÖVP, it was a conscious false report in your coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3029	Mrs Lichtenberger has now come to speak. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3050	Ladies and gentlemen! My two previous speakers have already played a title at the beginning of the meeting, namely the title "Protective Power of the Carriers". "Protective power of drivers": This seems to be the highest honor they can make or give each other. I am not going to participate in this dispute, ladies and gentlemen, because I see in the Greens and in all the people who look a little into the future in transport policy, the protective power or the lobby for fair mobility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, fair mobility does not mean that every person is forced to drive by car if he wants to meet his mobility needs if he wants to see his mobility needs supplied so to speak, but only in that there is a reasonable and wise mix between public transport and transport with a private car, both in freight and passenger transport. This must also be clear to us in the planning of future transport policy, because since 1995 the findings of the European Transport Commission – and this is no longer a pioneer in environmental matters – indicate that the transport problem in the European Central Spaces is no longer a problem! – will only be manageable by the passenger car, because of the enormous consequences that this has for air quality and also for space needs in the cities and for public use. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, have probably followed the debate and the discussions in Italy on the so-called car-free Sunday, at least on the verge. This car-free Sunday as a means of raising awareness has also become necessary because Italy has previously done what you, Minister of Transport, and what this coalition on public transport is planning now: that is, what is still present – and it is by far not what one could understand by means of a quality public transport – to reduce and to save even further. We reject this attitude and therefore we cannot accept this budget chapter either. It must not be that the transport associations whose installation was extremely difficult – especially for the central areas; I am thinking of the West Austria and also the Greater Vienna region – have to accept such severe cuts that either there will have to be enormous increases in tariffs – for the commuters, the main people, or for ecologically oriented people – or that traffic lines must be set up, that parts of this transport network. Ladies and gentlemen! With this policy you really meet the weak. They meet with the policy of setting secondary lines and through cuts and acquisitions in the traffic associations all those who do not have a car – either not yet because they are still going to school because they have no driving licence yet, or no longer because they have grown too old to be able to drive a car safely. These people will then have to take the most serious mobility disadvantages, especially if you stop the off-roads in the regions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, they are always talking about "spirits", namely "spirits" that pass through the landscape, and that is why they have to be stopped. At this point, however, the question must first be asked: Why have the sideways become spirit trains? Why have the last coalition governments managed so "efficiently" to thin out public transport into the regions – some important connections have been taken out – that it is no longer possible and useful to use it, because these trains do not bring people to where people need to be like commuters or students and want to be at home or at the service? The railways have been in the last 30 to 40 years – and I admit, Minister, that this is not the case. You've been broken down to such an extent that you can say "heavy" today: All right, let's put them in, 'cause nobody's going to do it anyway! – When trains travel to the regions at times that no person is on the road anyway, no one needs to wonder that this is how it develops. On the other hand, on the other hand – and that must already be clear – every stop of a runway is a blow against the overall network. I would like to explain this to you in an example from Italy: There is an area in Italy where a lot of tiles are produced, and in the last decades they all went on the railway to Central Europe, to Germany, to Austria and perhaps even further north. When Lombardy began to close the railways, 30, 40, 50 kilometers were often missing between the production site and the nearest railway station. And do you know what has happened in recent years? – All of these tiles are coming through the motorway in the truck today, because the rail connection is interrupted by a small gap in the railway network. – There are also analogies in passenger transport. If you cut traffic networks at the end, you have the problem of reducing overall network quality. This is a wrong policy, and we are attacking it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The cuts in the transport network and at the same time the recruitment of secondary trains are, of course, a massive blow against public transport, actually against everything that means fair mobility. And one thing is clear: The money is going to expand the road! This is not only in other or better or perhaps more urgent railway lines, but this money is obviously reserved for the extension of the road. The cuts in road construction and the means available for passenger and truck transport have, of course, been much lower than possible and also useful and also – for example – fair to the commuters. This policy, which is reflected in the budget, is road-oriented, and it is even in the wrong way. You, Mr Minister, increase the fixed cost of the car and not the kilometre-related costs. This is of course motivation for all, as much as possible to drive the same money. This is, of course, the completely wrong way in transport policy when it comes to achieving a mix of transport and finally enabling the free choice of transport to be made possible for most or all people. This reduction in the wrong corner and the burden on drivers in the wrong area, namely fixed costs, have negative consequences for driving behaviour, safety behaviour and so on and so on. Minister! They are making a policy that will continue to block our roads, but they are also making a policy that will reduce security on the side lines as much as safety on the main lines, and they will also make a policy that will not help reduce the high debt that has been accumulated mainly by road construction and also by building infrastructure. We have two major problems on the income side, which I am now saying a little salopp, namely the problem in the case of the Brennermaut and the problem of ecopoints, both primarily based on truck traffic. These two groups of problems – and they are now more visible and dramatic in Western Austria than in Eastern Austria; however, that does not mean that they are not present in the East – will provide your budget for the next few years. Finally, it is not yet possible to say when the truck-road pricing is really introduced, with which technical system it is introduced and whether it will ever come. Perhaps the freighters in your group are now so strong that they make it clear that it is better to tax the car than the truck. That, Mr Minister, is what I believe is the main mistake, so that we set wrong priorities. Compared with trucks and cars, the truck contributes much more to the cost imbalance on the road, as it does by far not involve the costs it causes, and it is primarily taken back to the passenger car. Why, Minister, go You do not at last address the basic problem and get through the transit of goods, in which there is a lot of nonsense in burdening the costs that it entails for your budget, for our budget and for our expenditure structure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it is still so cheap today in the area of truck transit that it is retiring to drive waste from Germany to Italy, then there must be something "slaughter" in the cost structure, and you should take note of this and finally turn on the decisive screws, namely to introduce a motivating, whose proceeds will be made available for a total transport system, in so far as fair mobility should be the goal for all people – not only for passenger drivers but also for counterparts who do not have access to the car and therefore depend on other transport. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Then, Minister, you would create more security on our streets and increase justice in access to mobility in the area, access to mobility. This is the central challenge for the future, especially in view of our stowed cities, in which air quality falls from year to year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3172	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3193	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Parnigoni, I have always understood with you very well and therefore I do not want to get close to you, but I am afraid that, as was the case with many of your colleagues in the club today, you may be replaced as transport spokespersons, for so many half-truths, so many precepts, so many banal propaganda statements and incorrect statements have included your speech that this is not even going in with your own Social Democratic electors. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I've been telling you something – that has really shaken me the most, and I've noticed it all the time, since Mr Gusenbauer took over the issue with the Social Democrats: Your speech is under a motto that turned an old social democratic song around. The SPÖ policy is under the motto, including in the field of transport policy: "With us, old time draws!" – With these old recipes, we will certainly not be able to modernise Austria or transport policy. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] If you, Mr Parnigoni, are talking about expensive and unattractive public transport, please knock on the chest. For who is responsible for this state? – It was the Social Democratic Transport Ministers who have made transport policy since 1970 and are also responsible for the conditions that you have complained about today in public transport. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me tell you something, Mr Parnigoni: Today you spoke about the "wild" ÖBB managers, particularly mentioning Mr Draxler. Yes, on whose proposal has Mr Draxler been elected Director-General? – But not on the proposal of the ÖVP, but on a proposal by the then Minister of Transport and Federal Chancellor Climate. That is the truth, Mr Colleague. You and you are responsible for those "wild" managers you criticize today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Unfortunately, I cannot entirely spare the Greens in this criticism. Mrs Moser! Study a little the story of the greens and the minutes of their statements, then you will see that it was your club woman, Dr. Petrovic, who, as I believe, made the proposal in 1994 to increase the petrol price to 35 s. Today, you distance yourself from it, but that is incorrect! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs. Colleague! Stand by your mistakes! It won't have been the last. [[Cheerfulness and new applause with the ÖVP.]] Everything has already been said about the vignette fee and the car tax. Mr Parnigoni! Inquire, read what was said in the draft negotiation of ÖVP and SPÖ on the subject of "financing of the street" inside! [[Abg. Parnigoni: I read through!]] The increase in mineral oil tax is within. So please do not complain about increases in this area if you would have done even more sharper and more radical increases yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we also need to come to a number of points of fact, on matters which are important to be considered, so that in Austria it is again more a transport policy reality, namely that politics is made not according to any ideological ideas or according to wishes, but according to the transport policy realities. It is not at all a question of playing track and road against each other, no, of course we both need: both the expansion of the rail and the extension of the road, but also the expansion of the waterways. As far as the financing and expansion of Austrian transport routes is concerned, even after the era of the Socialist Transport Ministers, it is necessary to take greater account of the transport facts, and we must avoid the ideological wishes that have so far contributed absolutely nothing to dealing with the problems. That's what bothered me so much about your policy. It was known to be Minister One who set the priorities virtually exclusively in favour of the development of the rails, without any significant shift in freight transport to the rails. It then allowed Minister Farnleitner to make the so-called GSD study in order to make it clear that, of course, in the East, in the new reform states, we need effective road connections so that we are not completely overwhelmed by traffic in the European integration process. We have also drawn the consequences politically and said: Yes, we need a cross-road transport plan! That is why we have created a ministry of our own, namely the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Railway, Water Road and Road, in order to achieve a uniform, coordinated expansion of the transport routes and actually to realize what we have been calling for for for many years, an Austrian federal road map. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger has repeatedly talked about the preference of the road towards the rail. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately that is not true. You should look at the figures, the right numbers, those corresponding to the facts. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But the right one!]] – There have been massive shifts in the investment focus over the past 15 years from road to rail. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because there was a need to catch up!]] Read the Wifo study on this subject in autumn 1999! In this it is quite clear that investment in federal roads and motorways through the federal government and the road construction companies has declined considerably between 1983 and 1998. In 1996, nominal investments were made by 56 percent less in the Federal Road Network than in 1983. Since 1989, the ÖBB infrastructure has been investing significantly more than in the Austrian road system. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Because the need to catch up was that way! In the 1960s only motorways were built!]] In 1997, more than twice as much investment was put in the rails as in the road. And for the railway unit skilometer, around 0.4 s are currently applied, while for the road unit skilometer there are only more than 0.14 s. So there are three times as many means for the railway as there are for the road. So stop with your fairy tale about the road's preference! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Why did you put this together?]] This is factually wrong, and you also notice every day when you drive on the road that today's traffic capacity is such that the roads can no longer take up traffic because ten, 15 years in this area has been done far too little foresight. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need the three-speed extension of the West motorway, we need the rapid loophole in the high-level road network, we need a motorway extension as a connection to the eastern and northern reform states. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Even in the Inn Valley?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we must be clear that, of course, we also need the extension of the rail. We would be happy if we could move only part of the increase in freight traffic to the rails. But it appears at European level that more than 90 percent of goods are transported over short distances of less than 100 kilometres. Over these short distances, which account for almost 90 percent of freight traffic, there is no alternative to the road, as the infrastructure of the road extends to the door. I would also like to point out that there is no single schilling in the Federal budget for the extension of motorways and their maintenance, which nobody would think possible. The total funds currently used for motorway development and highway development must be paid by the drivers and by the transport industry by means of vignette fees and tolls themselves, while the federal government provides 36 billion schilling from the budget for the ÖBB infrastructure every year and in the next ten years will make another approximately 140 billion schilling via the SCHIG liquid for the expansion of the railways. This, ladies and gentlemen, had to be said once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We confess ourselves clearly and clearly to the expansion of the rail, there is no alternative, but there must also be a meaningful cost-benefit relationship. [[Abg. Edler: Cost truth!]] But at least we do not see this sensible cost-benefit relationship at present, and that is why we think it is right and very necessary for the Minister of Transport to make a new priority in this regard and to implement this plan in the next six months. What has so far happened in the extension of the railways has resulted in a colorful flickerlteppich. There has been no coherent approach, and so far the economic impact has not been positive at all, neither for the railways nor their operating costs, nor for the individual railway users. This policy must therefore finally be brought to a close. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Trattner.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying: We need new ways not only in all Austrian politics, but also in transport policy, and the Austrian People's Party will take it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3393	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please take note of the speaking time, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3426	Mr President. Mr Kukacka said that the Social Democratic Transport Ministers were responsible for the state of the road. [[Abg. Auer: You can't correct an opinion!]] I'm actually correcting him: In the coalition since 1986, the Minister of Economic Affairs, Graf, Schüssel, Ditz and Farnleitner have always been responsible for road construction. And that is why, Mr Kukacka,... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No! He said to the sidecars!]] That's not true. I've been careful. So go to your party colleagues and complain there!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3488	The next speaker is Mr Eder. As a speaking time, 8 minutes will be communicated to me. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to make a few comments on the immaculate part of Mr Kukacka's speech. After the first part of his speech, he said that he would now be a matter of fact, so his statements must have been inaccurate at the beginning of his speech. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is the new transport speaker!]] In the inconspicuous part of his speech, he was concerned about the redundancies of speakers in the Social Democratic Club. I should like to remind you, Mr Kukacka, that you, as the Secretary-General of the EIA, have been replaced very quickly, but this has still not benefited, because you are the third strongest party in Austria today. That is, I think, to hold clearly here. [[Bravo-Rufe and congratulation at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, It seems not only Mr Kukacka, but it seems that all Members of the ÖVP have a major problem with their long-term or medium-term memory, as they do not seem to have been in the government in recent years. As you are saying here, Mr Kukacka, that only social-democratic ministers were responsible for transport policy, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all government documents in the Council of Ministers, including the votes of your EIA ministers, were adopted unanimously. Therefore, you also have the same responsibility from the ÖVP in this area. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have a little bit of it with the numbers, too, Mr Kukacka. At present, memory weaknesses are really one of the main problems of the ÖVP. They make themselves here and say: Well, actually, SPÖ and ÖVP had agreed at the time in this agreement – but this has never been achieved, and this for good reasons – to increase the oil tax, and with this increase in the oil tax the drivers would have been burdened. – That may be true, but this would have burdened drivers with 6 billion schilling. On the other hand, with what you are doing in this government, you are burdening the drivers with a total of 14 billion schilling, i.e. 8 billion schilling. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's wrong!]] You must also see this invoice clearly here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: The Edellinger is to blame!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Explain these 14 billion! How do you get 14 billion?]] But I do not want to spend too long on the comments made by Mr Kukacka, but rather on questions raised by the Minister for Infrastructure. Last week I was able to make some criticisms, but would like to say the following: I think we should also try, as Minister for Infrastructure, to make statements more clear and in the medium and long term. Please understand this not as personal criticism, but as such in the matter itself. Infrastructural investments are mostly investments – I quote in this context, for example: Railway development, road construction, telecommunications et cetera – that work in the long term. And long-term infrastructure investments must be well thought out. You can't just stop projects that are under planning or already under construction, then continue, stop again – and continue again. A typical example of this is the Semmering base tunnel, where it is once, once called no, once here. A federal state, namely the Styria with Mrs. Landeshuptmann Klasnic, wants the construction quickly, but Mr Pröll does not want it at all. On the other hand, Federal Minister Schmid is in favour of building the tunnel. These are things, ladies and gentlemen, that cost a lot of money in a country – even in a small country like Austria. Money that has already been invested must not be put in the sand! And that is why I can only tell you, Minister of State, Mr Schmid: Try to take a clearer stance on such large projects, because only with a clear statement and a clear attitude can one move on. I do not think anything about it either, Mr Federal Minister – I do not know, of course, whether this is all right, what has been read about in the media; often much is not quite true, and it has only been properly reflected – when attempts are made to play out federal states against each other, namely from the ministerial side, in so far as it is said: Now we are investing these billions in projects in Styria and in Carinthia, but not in those in Lower Austria or Vienna. . I mean, there should be more project-, subject- and orientation-related actions. We must be clear: If our neighbouring countries – which will certainly be the case for a short time or a long time – will be included in the European Community, then very important infrastructure will be to put in place, and this is precisely what we are planning to do today. And sometimes you have to start building now, because otherwise it can be too late. This is precisely what we are talking about infrastructural measures. It is now to be conjured by the government parties – what we always wanted from the Social Democratic Party – that all the transport planning, that is, that railway and road are coming into a ministry. This has never really been achieved in the previous government agreements, but please, for reasons that have often been sought at the ÖVP. However, this has been done, and I therefore believe that it is high time to achieve a reasonable coordination very quickly between investments in rail and road, which at last must be put on the feet, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, we have to note that there are, in fact, cuts in the budget for road construction, cuts that are very painful; especially in the conurbation centres, this has a very, very painful effect. Last week I already pointed out this fact, especially at the Vienna Aggregation Centre, where – we experience it every day – traffic traffic cannot be handled with the existing roads at all. Therefore, it is absolutely essential to force the construction of the southern bypass of Vienna, the B 301, which is planned, so that it actually comes about, as well as the north-east bypass of Vienna, because especially when our neighbouring states are integrated into the EU, it must not be so that Floridsdorf, that the Danube city or other major parts of Vienna are so much on a "Brenner line of the East". However, this danger exists if the construction of the north-east bypass, the construction of the B 305, is not started in good time, Mr. Federal Minister. The construction industry itself – I have inquired very carefully – says that it would be very necessary to tackle all these things very quickly, because the growth in the construction industry remains very much behind. The construction industry suffers from a fall in demand, especially under the cuts in the budget for civil engineering. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you know the debt?]] Mr Trattner, there is a lot to be said about public debt. Mr Firlinger also complained that the money was missing in the back and front. – If your election promises, which add up to 60 billion schilling, are now misdistributed to those who do not need it, and all of this needs to be financed now, then of course this is exactly the state debt you are talking about. But that's exactly the one that's causing you new from this coalition now! You make this state debt yourself, it's homemade – but you now claim that we are responsible for social democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in summary: This budget consolidation is in no way socially balanced. Its draft budget contains virtually no emphasis and structural measures. The increases in taxes and fees you provide already have inflation-enhancing effects; the impact on employment is negative. This draft budget is not realistic at all in sub-areas, and a goal is unlikely to be achieved by serious shortcomings in the approach to budgetary policy. The achievement of a general government deficit of 1.7 percent of GDP is unlikely, as it must be assumed that the countries and communities will not achieve the surplus of delivery you expect of 0.5 percent of GDP. This is all unreasonable, and I therefore urge the government parties to reconsider their attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3650	The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3672	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into one or another of the just sayings, I would like to briefly address those areas in which I intend to focus. And I would also like to point out here how I intend to tackle problems of transport policy. First of all, I think it is absolutely necessary to mention things by name. First of all, therefore: Disclosure of the facts – and not a policy for wishes, for visions that cannot be achieved financially. Because I'm talking about disclosure here: I think it is known to everyone here in the house that the total debt or the already committed credit framework in the budget area is over 300 billion schilling. A key number: The annual interest rates in the ASFINAG area alone amount to 4 billion schilling – and this represents a fraction of opportunities for new investments in the federal road network. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] That is to say, the financial situation is so – and this is not an accusation, but a dry list of the takeover protocol, which is needed for insight – that each single schilling has to be reversed three times in order to be able to really use it. The second point of disclosure is also a consideration of European development. In this context, we have to find out with regrets – I emphasize: with regret! – the decline in rail transport in EU countries, except Austria. Austria, for example, keeps the "normal" upswing, but in the other 14 EU countries transport on the rails is falling, as has been said. Furthermore, a dramatic set-up of freight stations in Germany can be observed. That's the development, but that doesn't mean that's what I'm dreaming about, or that I'd force this development, but I'm just calling things by name. What the facts reveal is as follows: The question of sensibility, in all areas, I see as a further priority in my work. That is why I am not afraid to question this critically. To some project or other I will come to speak in the course of my remarks. In view of the overall budgetary situation, of course, we should also disclose the possibilities and – I have already said this – do not make false promises. For me, the immediate entry into this my activity is also the consensual combination of road and rail here in the house, which must result in us coming to a federal road map, namely a detideologicalized federal road map. There is no point in observing, by the way, an excellent culture of conversation – in a first round of discussions between representatives of road construction and rail – since ideological goals are to be pursued, but what we need to observe in a federal road map is the sense of individual projects. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now to the list of priorities. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Where?]] That's what I'm about to talk about. – Back to deideologicalization, Mrs. Lichtenberger. Deideologising doesn't mean to me – and I insist on that! – an unconditional need for investment in road construction, but a meaningful resource supply. Even a famous colleague from Tyrol, who invited me to the Brenner meetings – you certainly know who I am talking about – has also pointed out that freight transport on the rail in the Unterinntal valley of God is unfortunately declining, that large investments are not used as it would be desirable. Let's say it again. Unideologisation! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But please also point to cost-truth!]] Now, in fact, on setting priorities, but I am asking for an understanding that I do not now have a right to completeness – but to oppose the discussion over the last few days, something that I believe is useful, namely the four-track expansion of the west railway. I emphatically emphasize this, and I think there is no one here in the house who would contradict it. And there will probably be no one here in the house who does not also ask himself why the extension of the railway line Vienna-St. Not in the SCHIG programme, not in all these priority lists. That this doesn't happen is fact. However, this is a project in the area of rail, in the area of west railway, which has the highest urgency. What I've announced now is nothing but a definition of individual sections. They will also not be able to name me transport experts of rank and names who would explain that the expansion of the Lainzer tunnel or the expansion of the St. Pölten freight train route would be of greater priority than the extension of the Vienna–St. It'd be pomps. – Therefore also this outline. It explains to me every expert that even the construction of the freight train bypass St. Pölten and that of the middle part of the Lainzer tunnel – some Vienna should not know that there is still a powerful connection between East and West – is only useful when the railway line Vienna–St. Pölten has been expanded four-track. As I have already announced, I shall therefore proceed in the manner set out in this priority series. Since the term "citizen's mark" has also fallen here, if I do that first, which is more important, I oppose it: I'm just about to clear out the "local sign" sign so that "Vienna" is back there – and there are reasonable measures to be taken. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But without tunnel it doesn't make sense!]] Another priority, because it is also claimed in this context, namely to extend the South Railway, to the great European spangae from north to south through Semmering. Mr Eder, we are perfectly of the opinion that this "frozen" named Pröll, which is in Semmering, is to be removed and that it makes no sense why there has already been one billion schilling of investment for this. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The "Phroffen" Pröll!]] To this statement I stand, and I declare here without "regional populism", that only then is the expansion of our rail network in the eastern region of meaningfulness if we take advantage of the opportunity – and this I write to all in the main book, also in my own field, so that there are no misunderstandings in Lower Austria! – the route that goes from our northeastern neighbours to Upper Italy, through Austria, through Vienna, through Lower Austrian, through Styrian and through the Carinthian region, and this includes the Semmering Base Tunnel. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals, the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] If we miss this opportunity, this route east will pass Austria, and then, unfortunately, other investments in this area will be God's disadvantage and not the sense that we all want. And then – and this, Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, will come to your information – when this railway will pass Austria, a greater strain on the road. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What about the Inntal?]] On the next point, however, I have already mentioned. I would also like to clear up with a misunderstanding: I am not only in favour of expanding our infrastructure areas in Eastern Europe in the context of EU enlargement, but also in order to make this possible. That's for clarification now. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Rail or road?]] - Rail and road! Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, we will not miss out on providing road transport – no matter if this goes towards the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary or Slovenia. As far as the rail sector is concerned, a number of intermediate services have already been provided in this respect, but intermediate services have not yet been used. – As said: I attach importance to the fact that this is understood so that I will not be misinterpreted. Since I have looked at the time of the EU accession of our eastern neighbours with a certain amount of concern, and I am still looking at it, namely the time when they are adapting to our social system, to our economic data and so on, I would also like to say: This time frame can only be shortened if – and this is what I want, so that there is no misunderstanding – in the infrastructure sector the carpet roll, the rails, the roads are laid in order to come to a peaceful and good cooperation, as we do many times in Styria with our partner Slovenia. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now on the topic of "common economic areas on the rail". OBB Director-General Draxler – by the way, I did not correct it half-heartedly, Mr Parnigoni – went to the public with a message that was not accorded with me; even with no other minister, as I was told. ÖBB Director-General Draxler has announced that it will be the first step towards closing all the off-roads. - It's not covered with my ideas. I stand for this – this is already true here –: If the use of trains looks such that no one really sits in these trains, then we will no longer provide them. I think we can agree on that. But maybe there's no way the timetable's going to be right. I am sure that there will not be any misunderstandings on public service and obligations we have. So if it's the case that trains run completely empty, then we need to correct them. It will also not make sense to maintain every side-way 100 percent; I expressly stress this. In the course of a press conference, I also pointed out that, in this context, there is a need for greater sensitivity – also in the context of the appreciation for individual regions, regions that have been completed spatially, which have no other access to large infrastructure facilities. We will have this discussion. So we won't go over with the "iron broom." There is no need to worry that I would not take any influence on my part and let my thoughts flow in. Now to some of the points raised. Loads by truck, road pricing: That's going on. I give you the right that the current state is unsatisfying and we must therefore make every effort to ensure that we have these trucks... – 1. July 2002 is the project. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: When?]] If it's faster, I'm right. I am trying to establish a toll system exclusively by electronic means, which represents a much more just and comprehensive form of collection and control, i.e. without toll huts. In this respect, there are different views, but we will make good use of the time of the call for tenders in order to come to the appropriate knowledge. Further development will take place quickly. This will be the case in the next few months. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: When?]] The German Ministry of Transport assumes that it can give up on the toll huts. With us, the decision will fall in the coming months, in the context of the award of benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Over the next few months?]] With regard to brake clot. I have noted your words on Draxler, and we will forge them. But as far as Director-General Draxler is concerned, I would like to say one thing: It has been entrusted with the task of bringing an economic position into its company. He does, it's legitimate, and we'll all admit it to him. In this sense, the distribution has taken place. However, it will be our task to bring in other ways of thinking and to give this space. I'm responsible for that. Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger! They have raised many questions, not fixed costs in terms of kilometre-related load for cars. These are long-term ideas, which will certainly be right for every individual in Austria, if we can ensure that they are accessible. It is certainly not the last conclusion to the fact that it is now burdened by the driver in a very inconspicuous form – mineral oil tax, vignette, toll, insurance tax et cetera. But I am convinced that this is a development that will be possible with GALILEO over the next ten years through GPS procedures. At present, a recording that goes in this direction is very difficult. Ecopoints and tolls: I shall try to use this heritage in the sense of the Tyrolean population in particular for good. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What about the illegal compromise?]] You know the problems. I didn't invent the transit contract. It is, of course, a difficult heritage in its sense of observation and so on, even with 40 percent false information starting point. I hope that we will be on 26 May. In June, a good result will be achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What about the compromise between you and the Commissioner for Economic Affairs?]] – I hope that we will be on 26 May. In June the Council of Transport Ministers reached a conclusion. The compromise between me and Commissioner de Palacio holds. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is illegal!]] – Let me speak, then you will find out! There is only the problem that the legal service of the European Commission sees a problem in it. The Commissioner has already written to all the European transport ministers and has promised me that she will make the most of her efforts to address this problem and, in the sense of our compromise, which provides for a total reduction by the end of 2003, will also come to a conclusion. I also strongly pointed out at the Brussels meetings that we are calling for compliance with the Treaty. If there were to be an improvement, we would be right. Finally, the following: Mr Eder, cuts in the street sector. – I am a person who sees the construction industry particularly highly connected, and will strive to make the appropriate investment resources available to our construction industry in the 2001 budget – and that is the core budget. Of course, what can be reclassified from the 2000 budget is being done without it being broken down. But the moment of truth for investment will be in the 2001 budget, and we will have the highest need there. I'm going to stop using the corresponding calculations from the Minister of Finance. We also know that in Germany, in public building, the orders are declining, not even because of budget scarcity, but simply because of the shortage of demand. In Vienna itself, there is already, as I think, a high level of promoted empty dwellings. Lower Austria, yes. But we're on our way there. We are on our way to a high level of demand, which on the one hand is pleasing for users, but on the other hand is not pleasing for the construction industry. I take this very seriously and will also use it in your sense. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3912	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3937	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In his contribution, the Federal Minister said that the extension of the South Railway would be a priority in his work. – That does not correspond to the truth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is not an actual correction! That's a political appreciation!]] The fact is, first of all: The Federal Minister has a construction stop in connection with the Semmering Base Tunnel. Secondly, The Federal Minister has laid down the Koralm-Tunnel ad acta project. Thirdly, The Federal Minister stopped the project of extending the rail in southern Graz a week ago. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: An abuse of the Rules of Procedure!]] It cannot therefore be a priority for the South Railway at all. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e3988	The Federal Minister has referred to this actual correction. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4010	Mr President. High house! I find it difficult to face such claims with emotion and purely objectivity. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now telling you the following: If you fill out the Styrian election campaign here by reporting falsely on my activities, I am looking for you in every way to address the uncertainty of the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I didn't have a construction stop at Semmering. They're incredibly ill-informed. It was not built at Semmering, it was simply pumped, that is, for a quarter of a year, that is, there were no construction activities at all. The thing I did is that I found that there is no continuous permit for the Semmering Tunnel. I believe that the real thing is every responsible manager of a company that invests billions and has to know that it can only use public funds when it has an approval. I don't build a basement if I don't have an approval for the roof. That's what I found. The construction is already a three-quarters year old. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Conscious of my predecessor's responsibility probably no longer forced. If you say I stopped projects in the south of Graz, then I have to stop: Call me a project I stopped! It's always said I took two out of four tracks away. It is true that there was a need of 430 trains, with 70 currently operating. Deputies! In 1997, a construction transfer for two rails was made. Please inform yourself before you say something here! There is a construction transfer regulation from 1997 for two rails from my predecessor. These two rails are being built. In addition, the railway negotiation for four rails is being carried out. I just said one thing: The extension of the four rails will take place if so many trains drive there. If anyone in this country is still building rails on which no railways are operating, so that billions of public funds are wasted, then, I think, he should get out of political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I say again with emphasis: I didn't take anything away. There are two rails transferred, two rails are ordered, and four rails are approved. I didn't take anything away! Take note of this and stop saying the untruth here to the Styrian people!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4073	The next speaker is Mr Schöggl. The voluntary time limit is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4094	Mr President. Mr. Minister! After these attempts by colleagues Herb, who, according to his own statement, is one of the worst paid and underpaid Members – I remember the debate on the referee law – to make a little steiric elections here, I would say that I think he is at least sufficiently honoured. In order to clarify this once and for all for the visitors to the gallery and in response to Mr Eder's comments, a comparison of the two models concerning budget planning: The Socialist Party/ÖVP model would have meant 6.5 billion schilling of loads for the drivers by increasing the oil tax and 2 billion shilling of extra income by increasing the price of vignettes. This totals 8.5 billion. The ÖVP FPE governance model means 4.5 billion schilling of revenue by increasing the motor-related insurance tax and 2 billion, i.e. the same amount, by increasing the price of vignettes. That's 6.5 billion schilling. That is to say, the ÖVP FPÖ governance model is much more gentle with the driver, namely, 2 billion schilling more gentle, while the SPÖ would have acted with full hardness and brutality against the drivers. This has to be put right once, and I hope everyone has understood it now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can now turn to innovation and technology policy. It was always a weakness of the Austrian technology policy that it was said that it would be very fractional and unclear. Technology policy instruments and actors would not be summarized accordingly. I note that the new Federal Ministry Act was a step in this direction, that one has finally tried and taken control of technology policy in a field of competence, so to have a responsible person. I think that this is a step in the right direction for research, development and technology and was a great success for this government. Ladies and gentlemen! The objective of adapting research and development expenditure to the OECD average at least as quickly as possible and reaching the desired 2.5 percent of gross domestic product as possible must not be lost in mind, and this government will certainly not lose sight of it. It is necessary to compare with other technology-oriented and successful European states. Finland spends almost 3 percent of its gross domestic product on research and technology promotion. This must be a scale on which we have to orient ourselves. However, it will also be important to review the impact of the tax reform which opens up the possibility of also asserting the costs of staff employed in the field of research and technology. We hope that this will have a very high stimulating impact on the research rate. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the necessary budgetary adjustment and the savings needed in all areas, as we all know, the largest research and technology-related institutions, namely the funds, in particular the funds for the promotion of scientific research as a supporter of scientific research, but also the research funding fund for the industrial economy, as a support instrument for the application-oriented field, as well as the innovation and technology funds as a research-related organisation of the government and promoters of Austrian space activities, which are modest but which, at least, bring large backs for our material industry – I am thinking only of the Böhler company – in the same level as last year or even slightly increased from the budget. And this is a great success for this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, it should not be overlooked that the research funding fund will be disbursed from the budget of the Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology with 530 million Schilling and the FWF will be disbursed from the budget of the Ministry of Research, Innovation and Technology with 405 million schilling and from the science budget with about 200 million schilling. That is to say, the reduction of the research funds claimed by Klubobmann Van der Bellen in the discussion in the programme "To the cause" is not taking place. This also needs to be put right from this point of view. If someone can't read the budget, I have to say, it's in one's own area. Ladies and gentlemen! An outflow of key findings of recent times is the transition of the innovation strategy from process innovation to product innovation, because it is clear that the latter is of much greater importance to employment and also to corporate results. For this reason, we aim for the ERP fund to become increasingly involved in this area. From our point of view, the ERP Fund should be active in the field of innovation, research and technology in the future. Finally, a few words on non-university research. These too, represented by the large institutions such as Joanneum Research, the Arsenal associated with Seibersdorf, must have a single contact in the future. The ACR's research-related cooperative institutes are also involved, which are currently floating in an air-empty area and are still assigned to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We should also include these in the Ministry of Innovation, of course also with the corresponding resources. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We put great hopes in the high-level and high-level Council on Research and Technology, which is to be set up in the near future, on the one hand, politically unaffected, on the other hand also high-quality visions, priority programmes and technology guidelines for Austria, on the other. I think that this Council will significantly improve the economic and technological situation of Austria. Research and development policy is in good hands with this government, ladies and gentlemen, and with this minister. The successes will come to an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4178	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4200	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! They have initially become eyewitnesses of a comparatively engaged transport debate and have then become a comparatively unemotional and factual presentation by the Minister's side. Minister Schmid! A quote from you: They want to reveal reality. I can now present you with a few realities, because as a minister you are not yet cementing, not yet so paved, perhaps not yet so housed in in the sense of tunnel solutions like others of your predecessors, some of these realities, on the After all, they are so valuable and they want to be exposed, and then you ask – and this is my primary requirement – to finally develop, above all, ecological, economic and also social guidelines for a transport policy that has become possible for the first time by the fact that road and rail are now united in a single hand. Our plea always went in the direction that we wanted to finally clarify that transport policy in Austria is economically, ecologically and socially framed, thus providing guidance boards, orientations, also values and ideologies. But back to the reality that you ask for or that you want to reveal yourself. Here I can start with a Bonmot on your side. You have pointed out that you want to take the construction industry into account and take into account in your activities that the construction industry is not too short. Thank you very much, Mr President. Transport policy also serves the construction industry. For me, however, this has passed some realities, passed by, and passed by. Let us come to those who are relatively comprehensive about reality and who are also used to explaining, we come to the EU Commission! Let us come to these experts at European level, which you will certainly not be discussing, but at which you may, in part, be orientation. They also keep negotiating with the Commissioner. Let us return to the realities of the EU Green Paper: efficient and fair prices. For me, this is a basis on which transport policy can be operated, for me this is a European basis on which transport policy is to be operated. These realities will perhaps take you into account in your transport policy, Mr Minister, and that is why I am looking for you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can come to the first reality that has been clearly laid out there: Cost truth. The truth of costs in the transport sector is the basis of a fair transport policy, which is the basis, above all, for an economic, an efficient transport policy. Colleague Kukacka always compares train kilometres and road kilometres and produces the current cost relationships. In point of fact, he's certainly right. However, he always disregards two things, which also belong to reality. One fact is that there has been no investment in the railway for decades and now, as it were, has to be picked up. The second thing he does not take into account, what he keeps putting away or does not want to discuss in concrete terms, is the fact that the car traffic, the traffic on the road is simply 50 percent not cost-effective. The EU Green Paper also notes this over and over again. This is not always put on the table in traffic policy discussions. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The railway is not cost-effective either!]] A third thing: Mr Kukacka! You should finally have the courage to say, if you repeatedly consider realities to be a priority, that within the motorized transport of cars traffic is treated unevenly. Mr Parnigoni says that the trucks use the roads – as I mean – 163,000 times more than the cars. That's also a fact, please! There is a redistribution within the motorized world of individual traffic, from the car towards truck traffic. Cross-subsidised. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There we have an EU problem!]] – Of course, that’s why I mentioned the EU level. We should finally have the courage to talk about your toll philosophy – and I would like to talk about it – to ask for the truth of the cost in freight transport. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then many things would also make themselves more economically efficient. These shipments of waste, these shipments of tiles from Italy to other EU countries in low-coolers, so that they do not fall under the ban on weekend driving – these are things that would no longer be possible, which would finally be eliminated once we introduced this cost truth. The way you walk, toll system 2001 – the question is still Hütterl or electronically – is only a half-hearted step, partly even a step backwards. Essentially, that really costs every kilometre that it costs, no matter whether on the road or on the train. Let us make a real case crash and start from the beginning, on the basis of cost-truth! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Then no one will drive on the train! Then the train ride will be ten times as expensive!]] Then you expect the noise emissions, the noise damage. That's all the EU does. Then you expect the exhaust gas situation and the accident balance to do so – a little bit of an economic and animosity. This transport policy, which is road-oriented, endangers people's lives. This point has not yet been discussed in this debate. We need to do more about this, also in the sense of a realistic transport policy, that we are again putting more emphasis on road safety. And then it also looks cheaper for the train, then there is cost truth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! Since you always point to reality and so prioritize it in your decision-making horizon, I would also like to point out that Austria has the largest number of kilometres per inhabitants in the international comparison. Please, a graphic! [[The speaker keeps a graphic up-to-date.]] There is not much to catch up with, I say quite specifically, in the railway infrastructure sector, on the other hand. Next reality, Minister: Mineral oil taxes. In the EU comparison, we are far behind France, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, Portugal, Denmark and the UK. In all the countries listed, mineral oil tax is higher. We're further in the back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'm not for an increase, but I'm for driving performance-related mileage in combination with ecobonus. I have repeatedly found this here, and I want to clear up with the rumor that you always attach to us that we want a 30-s or 35-s petrol price. In this context, I would like to offer you a bet, Mr Kukacka. If you bring us the written document, according to which colleague Petrovic requested a 35-s petrol price, I'll pay you a filling for your car. – If this is not the case, pay me a monthly ticket at the transport companies in Vienna or Linz. That's an offer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: I take the bet!]] In the sense of a fairer and more efficient transport policy, I even go down to your transport level if you pay me a monthly ticket.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4319	I think the protocol says that the bet is valid. It's okay.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4341	Thank you. – Other realities: Minister! You know exactly – at least you heard about it, otherwise I would like to tell you – that 50 percent of passenger cars are in an area that does not exceed five kilometres. Imagine that, five kilometers you can just as well travel by bike, you can return relatively cheap by public transport. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Where, please? Do you know that there are a number of human spaces where there is no public transport?]] I don't want to say that you might also be able to take part of it on foot. These 50 percent passenger cars can certainly be transferred to more environmentally friendly modes in the sense of a fair and efficient transport policy. That is a question of behaviour, which is always a question of the framework conditions. But please also note this reality in your transport policy. Finally, I would like to make clear your EU approach. Surely you have negotiated a compromise, you have pointed out that you have more or less acquired an inheritance in this case, a transit agreement that does not by far bring what he should have brought, which was entirely wrong from the outset. I would just like to point out one more point, apart from this ecopoint increase: We are standing before the east opening or east expansion. At present, these journeys are still quotaed. Please, what happens when we conclude contracts? What happens if the entire East-West freight transport is fully carried out – because of economic development, it will be mainly on the road, except when it is re-routed – via the West motorway? – Minister, then you don’t need a third track, then you need a fourth and fifth track. And after ten years, you'll need the sixth track. That is the basic problem. Finally, I would like to point out to you that: If you build roads, that will make driving easier. But in a very short time, this road will be closed again. Example Linz, Ebelsberg. Every expert says: 2.2 billion Schilling is investing in it in four years. I wonder, What's economic? This economic reality is also at the heart of our green transport policy in addition to the aspect of justice, and the answer is simply cost-truth. Please, Mr Minister, put the scissors on the issue of cost-truth, then transport policy looks very different and is not only in the sense of the construction industry or of the car and truck drivers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4379	The next speaker is Mr Ellmauer. The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4401	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all know newspaper reports about the bad condition of our streets to be enough. "Transithölle on the weekend" or "Rumpelstraße West Autobahn" are the headlines of newspaper reports on the traffic situation and the structural condition of our roads. But we do not have to refer to such reports at all. Every day it is brought before our eyes, and we ourselves are witnesses to the state of our streets. In particular, given the future enlargement of the European Union, it is our duty to maintain and further expand the existing infrastructure. A functioning economy requires intact transport routes. As a result of the enlargement of the European Union, traffic volumes in Austria will increase by a lot as a logical consequence of increased transport of goods and passengers. At the latest, it will be completely unthinkable that, for example, the West motorway is a permanent construction site. Ladies and gentlemen! We all have the picture of truck columns rolling back and forth on the west highway. That is why I demand that at last the six-spuritary extension of the West motorway be started and that this is carried out throughout. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I also call for more professional construction site management. According to expert opinion, the West motorway is already at the limit of its loadability, and you don't have to be an expert with God to recognize it. I myself speak out of painful experience. It is also necessary to think ahead of a responsible transport policy. It is already necessary to include developments emerging for the future in planning. Unfortunately, this has been taken too little into account in the past. The necessary steps should have been taken much earlier. Not only since today has it been known that the burden on Austrian infrastructure will rise significantly. From this point of view, I also call for the continuous four-track expansion of the B 125 in order to increase safety and take account of the increased volume of transport to and from the Czech Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are only at the beginning of a development, and it is our task to take the necessary steps in the infrastructure now in order to be able to benefit from the opportunity given to us by the situation of our country in the middle of Europe in the enlargement of the European Union. Our economy is already in intensive contact with our Central and Eastern European neighbours, who could be considerably strengthened. The aim is to link the high-level TEN road network to the TINA network in implementation. However important this is in the eyes of our partners in the European Union, the increase in the INTERREG funding summit, which was set up by the EU specifically for the border country or for cross-border projects, proves. The Austrian border regions could receive around 2.5 billion schilling for INTERREG projects between 2000 and 2006. An intact transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for a functioning European economic area. That is why it is in all our interest to push forward these projects. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To show you the importance of opening up the former Eastern Bloc countries: Ten years ago we had an export surplus of about 7 billion Schilling, and already in 1998 we had over 32 billion Schilling export surplus, more than four times. Unfortunately, an increasingly neglected point, however, which is very much at my heart personally, is the area that is particularly important for tourism, but also for our fellow citizens and the environment. They need to be expanded. It is true that our guests will be happy to come to us if they can arrive without problems. Where they fear traffic jams or problems, they stay away. I therefore demand that more resources be made available in the future budget for federal roads. As an example, I would like to mention the village of Traunkirchen, which would be a significant relief for the people of the Salzkammergut. The situation today is such that all traffic, including heavy traffic, goes through the middle of the village and burdens the inhabitants. It always comes to accidents. For tourism too, all of this is very harmful. I therefore call for Traunkirchen to be built as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The dual nature of your transport policy, especially yours, Mr. Ex-Minister One, proves the slogan you have shaped: Rail instead of traffic blinds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The propaganda of this slogan was financed by means of taxes, has cost millions, and at the same time, the ÖBB has acquired several companies and at the same time has become Austria's largest truck tanker. [[Abg. Auer: Is that true?]] This proves how you operate transport policy. In addition, it is actually surprising that the Red Transport Ministers have done so little to put in place effective measures in this area. One thing I want to do right now: We both need the best possible road connections, and we need the best possible rail connections and the expansion of waterways. All areas should be expanded equally and adapted to the needs. But unfortunately, the concentration is currently mainly on the rails. More and more resources must be made available for road construction. The weighting for the expansion of our infrastructure, which dates from the time of the Red Transport Ministers, urgently needs to be re-adjusted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am well aware of the financial situation, but in order to ensure long-term competitiveness and the economic location of Austria, measures to expand infrastructure are inevitable. It is also necessary to raise the necessary money for road construction. The only way to secure the financing of road construction in the long term is by means of a functioning road pricing system. [[Abg. Well done: Yes!]] That is why I am glad that the call for tender for the dual system is already under way and that, in addition, Mr. Schmid has commissioned a study in which all systems on the market are examined for their functionality and efficiency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I hope that the best economic system for Austria will be found and implemented quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! A few brief comments on Austrian space policy. Since Austria has been a member of ESA, the European Space Organisation and has participated in the Ariane-V programme, many orders have been awarded to Austrian companies – at Ariane V 32 Austrian companies are involved. Now there is a collaboration between ESA and NASA for the first time in the new transport systems for the international space station. Here too, several companies could benefit from niches, because the state of know-how in this field is very high in most of the Austrian export companies. What is missing is that we do not currently have a national space plan. The need for financial resources is clear. I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for answering my slices so quickly and telling me that you will make an effort to make available funds in the next budget for this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My group will therefore be happy to give its approval to the consultative group X of the Federal Finance Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4496	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please note the speaking time and content. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4521	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Ellmauer has just claimed that the concentration of funds is currently on the rails. – This claim is wrong. It is true that in the last 26 years, a single year, the rail has spent nearly as much time on the road as it was in 1999, and that over the remaining 25 years the road has spent much more on it; a total of 471 billion Schilling for the road and 121 billion Schilling for the rail.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4558	The next speaker is Mr Edler. The clock is set to 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4580	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, it was already a strong sage of you who was about Semmering when you spoke of the "Pröll-Pfropen". I have the impression that you sing the STS song "I wül wieda ham after Princeföld" every day. I think you'd feel better. You can admit that honestly, too. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Where do you want to go?]] Transport policy, transport policy, transport policy, transport They have also started a turnaround policy, which is a return to traffic policy. They leave the networked environmental transport policy. The truth of costs has been mentioned many times today. They say again and again, yes, the truck crew will come, but we could have done this for a long time. It is true that it has prevented the ÖVP from having, as a result, too little money to finance the high-level road network today. That's a fact. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! That you analyze projects again, look at them again, that's your good right, that's legitimate. But if you send the four-track extension as a positive message and stop the Lainzer tunnel at the same time, this is really a house shield that you set up with it. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the important trans-European railway node Vienna becomes a stump track. They're going back to a main station, and we don't have a tram station. This does not prove to be open to trans-European considerations, Mr Federal Minister. Although you referred to the secondary railways, you did not talk about the basic regional provision which we have always assessed positively in recent years. People in the regions, in less populated areas, also have the right to have a basic transport policy provision at their disposal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are reducing public transport, especially in the area of transport, with over 300 million schilling, and you are planning to cut the funding for rail infrastructure by around 9 billion schilling in the next few years, Mr. Minister. But this is not the right transport policy! In principle to the secondary railways: You have already announced that you would still be governing the reform of Director-General Draxler, but there are no concrete proposals. The people outside are insecure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, railways working there expect a decision to be taken. There have already been several ministers who wanted to stop by-cars. However, there are also some examples of the fact that people across political party borders have, together with their colleagues, tried to create better models and better offers. I now only call the wine district in the area of Gänserndorf and Wolkersdorf, where we managed in this way to create wonderful transport systems. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Risked by the withdrawal of certain projects It is also the economic location of Austria. You need to know, and you know very well that Scandinavia is building a transversal to Slovenia to the Adriatic via Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. If we don’t quickly get involved – that’s one of the most important tasks – then Austria’s economic location will be around. I said this a few months ago at the Semmering debate: There are opinions that prove that if we do not expand the South Railway, but also the West and North Railways and drive around Austria, we will lose 100 billion schillings in economic terms. And that's not reasonable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Edler, why haven't you done this for a long time?]] Mr Gaugg! You don't know. Don't worry about your attack policy as far as the railways are concerned. Maybe that'll fit in with what you said last time about the railways. I should like to say very clearly here that, under the 1992 ÖBB legislation, the railways had to take note of painful reforms. You brought it. Since 1992, 12 000 railways have been saved. Unfortunately, the law of the service has been worsened. There is a contract with the Federal Government which the ÖVP has negotiated with Bartenstein, Molterer, Kukacka that the pension change has to be considered a contract template for the railways, and they were willing to pay much more pension contributions. A total of 4.1 billion shilling has been saved in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. This is the contribution of the railways. And the railways, who are still officials, who cannot therefore become unemployed, still pay 3% unemployment insurance. In other words, there has been a significant deterioration in income for the railways. [[Abg. Young: This is solidarity with those who do not have safe jobs! Solidarity is unknown to you!]] We're talking about equality, and I think that's how it is understood. As for my district of Vienna-Donaustadt, another personal note: Perhaps it is possible for Mr Graf to set up his non-official city councillor Prince, who announced to us that he had had a big conversation with Minister Schmid, that the Simmering Express Station was not at all necessary, as was the S-80 extension to Marchfeld, and the Federal Minister would have said that he did not find it so important either. If the blacksmith wants something else, he'll get it. This is the same policy as the one relating to the airport Vienna. Here too there is the statement of the FPÖ in the district: Get out of here! Planes away to Pressburg! On the other hand, Mr Haider in this House has once said that it is dilettantism if we do not expand Vienna Airport or outsource our traffic and thus the economic location in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: Your transport policy is a step backwards. They allow truck lobbyists in Austria to maximize their profits more and more. They lead Austria into a traffic-political stump.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4665	Mr Wattaul is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4686	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edler, you have to stick to the truth! Who removed the commitment of the mineral oil tax? Only by this has it become possible to use the money elsewhere. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: The FPÖ has been for this!]] What could you have done with this money? Who did that? The SPÖ, isn't it? Our streets are expensive, very harmful and not paid. Austria is the only country in Europe that has not paid for its motorways. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: If we wanted a truck toll, it would be easy to pay!]] Why is that so? Debt was 30 years of socialist mismanagement. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Who was responsible for road construction?]] What did they do with the ÖBB? What happened? The unions have acquired. Non-economic aspects are in the foreground, no, these were party-political aspects that were in the foreground of the ÖBB. That is why the Austrian Federal Railway is now on the ground. That's what it looks like. This has been your failure, your ministers. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what happened. Mrs. Lichtenberger! You've been talking about the garbage shipments. Do you know why garbage is transported? Because disposal is cheaper in the east and because it's a huge business. You can carry a golden truck trash if you lead it to the east because you earn so much money with it because the issue of disposal is not solved with us. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Italy is located in the south of Austria!]] For this reason, garbage is exported. Do you know who's leading the most trash? The federal railways carry most of the garbage. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's good! Or do you want to load all this shit on truck?]] Look at the trains, see where this all comes from. The waste is collected from all over the West, comes in complete trash and is then disposed of there at the expense of the poor countries. That's the truth! What you're talking about here is polemics. That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I'm going to add: What's going on with our new minister? – At last, rail and road are being put together, gaps are now being closed, and there is no party policy on the back of the population. We stand for an economic policy, not just for polemics! [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Lobbyism is called that!]] Mrs Colleague, ask me! You're saying the car's not driving. What do you want? Do you want road pricing for the car? - Then say it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] Sage She's clear: Yes, we want road pricing for cars; but say You don't: We're raising the mineral oil tax. There you can say: Yes, we Greens demand road pricing for cars! Is that what you want? [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Tell me what you want!]] Do you trust that? – You don’t trust that because you’re afraid of it! That's not how it works. [[Abg. Oils: That's what it looks like!]] Now I'm coming back to the railway again. What really happened to the railway? There are four Directorates-General. I now call the railway from Pöchlarn to Kienberg. There all railway stations have been renovated and renewed. But at the same time, all the managing directors have been replaced. It's no longer a train station, it's locked on the train. – That’s OeBB policy! freight railway stations detto: everything is rehabilitated; Bahnexpress: everything from St. Pölten. What do we need seven freight stations on this route for now? What kind of policy is that? – Yes, that’s exactly the policy that socialists have done for 30 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Just build anything – he does it, he does it, by the bridges, by the rails, by the twig, and nowhere works. Motorway: Drive from Vienna to Salzburg on the motorway – it's all broken! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Everything's broken!]] Here! [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height.]] The renovation of the A 1 – by years too late; twice as high traffic levels as ten years ago! – What is that? Has Mr. Schmid been? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's exactly the problem!]] Who was that? – Tell me! [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Hold the thief!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It was you too!]] No, 30 years of socialist politics are just too much! Now once a minister has to coordinate this. Look In two years, you'll see how it will work! Not only criticize, but bring solutions! None of you have any solution, it's just criticized. [[Abg. Reheis: You don't have any solution, you've just slandered!]] Who's insulted? You probably won't believe that in 100 days we can solve the failures of 30 years without money. [[Abg. Reheis: No solution has the train of yours!]] You won't believe that, will you? – That’s your missing policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We've got to clear these snipers together now! We'll do this, we'll make it, but not like you! [[Abg. Raise: Zero! That's your policy!]] ==References== ==References== Not we, the FPÖ, are guilty, but the voters have elected you. [[Abg. Reheis: You have zero suggestions!]] He picked you out because you didn't bring anything together. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e4980	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please note § 58 of the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5005	Mr Wattaul said that I would have talked about transporting waste to the East. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: From waste transport to Italy!]] - This is not right. I have quoted a list that shows that 240 000 tonnes - of which 120 000 tonnes - have been transported from Germany to Italy in the years 1996/97. Italy is known to be in the south!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5040	As the next speaker, Mr Grünewald is speaking. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5062	Mr President. Minister! Some data on research funding – however, first, impressed by yesterday's and today's press releases, perhaps a small introduction. I am deeply grateful for being able to criticise research funding today, not losing my mandate, not paying fines or being punished with heavy dungeons. [[Abg. Oils: Not for long!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: It all stops!]] This is pleasant when you hear what plans are being wrapped in the south – and not in Italy. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Mr. Colleague, what do you have against the south?]] To the south? - Nothing! I'm a neutral geographer. I now repeat to the many forgetful and disinterested people that the main problem of our criticism of research funding is what you are currently challenging, namely the fragmentation of skills. I'll count you this again, and you can call every time you don't. – Then all you have to do is rest in the hall. Universities, technical colleges, the Academy of Sciences and EU programmes: Gehrer. Research funding organisations, separated from the most important place and output of research, the universities, can be found at Schmid, as well as FWF and FFF. The last time I said "FFF", everyone protested because they meant I wanted to detest the liberals. However, the FFF is for experts in the science of the funds to promote industrial research. – Competence Centres and Council for Science and Research: also at Schmid. That's not enough. Other centres of competence are located in the Ministry of Science and Labour, according to the Christian Doppler Society, the ERP Funds and Innovation Agencies. All of this happened after the Federal Government had promised a pooling of competences – I understand something else by pooling – and it took place against the decided council of all relevant high-school political organizations, which at last wished to have a science department with universities, technology and research funding under a large roof. But that's not how it came. If you still think about the direct funding of the individual ministries – and they are not small – then there is an extremely diffuse – I would even say: very disorganized – image of the Austrian research landscape. – Since no one has called now, I seem to be keeping right. You will also understand that these divisions of competence not only result in numerous interfaces, friction losses and overlaps of responsibilities, which can also be compensated by a relatively vague and – you know – politically controversial Council on Research and Technology. I believe that the reason for this fragmentation was the satisfaction of both coalition partners. They were satisfied, but if you can look content in the future, I too dare to doubt. Now I'm calling you some hard data, because it's always talking about networking between the economy and the university. Where should research funding go? The fact is that 97 percent of university budget funds are carried by public authorities, which leaves Austria relatively unique in the scene. Only 2 to 3 percent of research funding in the context of the universities comes from the non-public sector. I would also like to remind you now of the technology report of the Austrian Federal Government in 1997: "Austria is one of the richest countries, but with its almost stagnating research rate for years, it remains in the group of richer nations" – the word "nation" is allowed to use here – "in the last place." Further data: If you look at the research funds in Germany and Switzerland, you have to say that the donation of the Austrian Fund FWF per capita is 50 percent of the comparable German sister fund and only 23 percent of the comparable Swiss sister fund. As we are talking about innovation and milestones, talking about the fact that we will at last increase our share of research and development in GDP to 2.5 percent, I am really just dreaming. But you're awake and you should know that you're saying an blatant untruth. It is not true that these quotas are being increased. They have even fallen discreetly from the last year to this year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to quote further facts. You know Felder and maybe Campbell, who made a big study. They show that public support for research and development is essential in small countries in particular, simply because there are aggregation difficulties between industry, small and medium-sized enterprises and universities, and these countries do not only manage to gain the international link with an economy that is not only innovative and research-friendly – I say politely. I say to you that you will not win this connection either by always believing that it is possible to make up for what the state is still doing in the field of research funding by means of third-party funding. A major study by TU-Vienna has shown that the so-called Mäzenatism in industry and industry for innovative research in Austria is almost exhausted. In this study, in order to make it more understandable or plausible, they argued that there would be more resources to use; only insignificantly more resources would be available. I would also like to say to you: Of course, 2.5 billion Schillings flow from the EU to Austria in research areas approved by Austrians. But the rejection rates are very high. In the case of small and medium-sized countries: If national support is not focused, our competitiveness in Brussels will suffer with other major ones. Examples would be Sweden, Finland or Ireland; they have shown us that we can pick up 0.5% of research and development in GDP. We're talking about 2.5 percent, but when we talk, it's left. Very briefly: The Austrian foreign trade shows, as you know, a clear technology gap. It is striking at the centres where the university and the economy are networked, in turn, that the public hand takes over the most part, namely 60 percent, of the costs. I am not a machine storm or a picture storm, but please note the following: Economy and industry often have a relatively full mouth when it comes to criticism of the research scene in Austria. Their contribution, however, – in turn compared to other OECD countries – is fair. I tell you, there are 34 researchers in Austria per 1 000 people employed. This rate of employment of researchers in the public sector has increased by 18 percent, with an increase of 2 percent in non-public – economics and industry. If you noticed anything, I'd think it was very encouraging. Nevertheless, we can do a lot in the field of research and economics. I call ecological building, renewable energy, new, intelligent materials, thermal and noise insulation, nutrition, medical diagnostics, health research and services. These are things that have been considered innovative and future-looking in the Delphi study, and are actually in good part covered by the environmental technology chapter. I would like to ask you to pay attention to the wisdom that budget consolidation can be achieved through research investment and young people's promotion, but not through exit strategies, self retention and other scenarios, as they always come from you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe – and this is an offer – that we will only come to a reasonable denominator here if we start this dialogue. I don't think it's us who show us, but you've been isolated. That's not good for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5141	The next speaker was Mr Fink. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5162	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Dr. Herbs, you are badly informed, the Minister has told you. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: As always!]] But I would like to ask you: It might be that you got the bad information from your Mr. Landesrat Ressel. If the newspaper reports were to vote, he would be the only competent National Transport Council, the Federal Minister for Transport Dipl.-Ing. Schmid hasn't spoken yet. Maybe that's why he misinformed you. He should check with the Minister of State. Perhaps he could then provide better information, and these would be more truthful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Federal Minister! First of all, thank you very much for putting the Semmering Base Tunnel at the top of the priority list! I'm happy about that. [[Abg. Grabner: But he has not enforced himself against Pröll!]] That is exactly what I would like to say now, Mr Grabner: Remember the advertising in 1983 in Vienna. [[Abg. Grabner: Surely you are forgetful!]] At that time it was said that the Wienerwald tunnel was built, and it was said that the Semmering base tunnel was built. Nothing happened. The only thing you did was you moved back after the election, and everything was broken like a soap bubble. You would have had the opportunity at the time. Today you speak to Mr. Land captain Pröll. You wouldn't have to do that at the time, but you could have built it all back then. But unfortunately, as always, you've slammed it. You didn't do anything, you didn't do anything. Polemik has always been above all others for you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] These are the failures created by socialist politics. By doing so you have also put the Austrian Bundesbahnen in the corner. You have always promised and done nothing more. You always have to remember – apparently you forget all this – that the railway has been a socialist domain since 1945. That's probably not going to be disputing. [[Abg. Young: With blue uniform!]] For a time, between 1966 and 1970, there has been a single government of the Austrian People's Party. We were responsible for this, and in time the railway went well. But that was only four years, but you didn't bring anything together for the train in 50 years. If we didn't have our "Kuki" - because I see him right now, Mr Kukacka, who has always driven you to do something and do something, nothing would have gone further in the ÖVP's government involvement with the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We were at least the driving force in this area for something to happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You have massive loss of reality!]] That is, the SPÖ cannot blame anyone for preventing the decisive modernisations of others, for example, with the argument that one hears over and over again: billions were invested in road construction, the railway was starved. [[Abg. That's fact!]] - We know the arguments, they're not new. You just don't think of anything new, because you can't say anything else. [[Abg. Because it's true!]] But I say that's what you lose in credibility and seriosity. That's not all right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You know exactly how it was in 1970 when you formed the single government. Of course, it has also been wrong that road traffic then, in 1970, increased most. But you didn't mind. The countries have had to catch up with traffic, they have had to shoot money. You can still remember Sekanina and the savings cars that were built at the time. At the time, the country of Styria had paid a lot for this savings car. After that, the refitting of this motorway also cost us a lot of money again, so that it could be modernised properly. It is also worth noting that the railway has been modernised everywhere in Europe, only in Austria. I believe it was the inability of those responsible for the Ministry of Transport and also the trade unionist who always prevented timely modernisation. Mr President, because you have also said something about this: [[in the direction of the Abg. Verbatim]] I hope that at least the press conference was a decent one today. [[Abg. All right!]] The demonstrators will be numerous enough. Are you satisfied? – Finally something different! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I can also tell you something about the nationalized industry that socialist politicians and top socialist trade unions do not want to hear. They have always told the workers in this area that no change is necessary. Nothing can happen anyway. These are unsinkable ships. What's going on? – But as has been shown, this has been a dangerous error. Billions of schilling have been wasted. We're still paying for it today. Tens of thousands of workers were also dismissed at the time. Finally, I would like to say at least one more thing. I was... [[Abg. Silhavy:... save a bad conscience!]] I don't have a bad conscience; you have it, otherwise you wouldn't have to yell in here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - I was in a guest house on Sunday. That's why six cyclists came, three men and three women. As a result, there was whispering: Look, the railways are back on their way. – As I thought, these are certainly active: black pants, red body – so they drove. But you know what? – These were pensioners with their wives, no one 53 years old! Yesterday I was with a mayor. He asked me: Ernstl, how old are you? – That’s what I said: 58, and how old are you? - I'm going to be 53. I told you, now you're gonna have to go back to bed. He replied: I am. – I said: I don't need that, no! Friends, I'm telling you: [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] This is socially unfair that railers can retire at 53, but all others only at 55 or 60 years of age or older! [[Abg. Silhavy:... highest retirement age!]] The injustice also exists within the train staff, I tell you, because it is a difference whether it is a shifter, whether it is a locust or whether it is a writing force, an office force. We also pay a lot from the state to these areas. The levying of pensions for the railways in 2000 is 24 billion schilling. It may not be that the increased pension contributions cover the 53 years themselves. I think that's a nonsense! There must also be changes in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5391	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. Please start with the case to be corrected!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5416	Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker claimed that the Styrian Transport Land Council ing. Hans-Joachim Ressel did not seek or conduct a conversation with Minister Schmid. The same was said by Minister Schmid. [[Abg. Fink: He has already informed you wrong again!]] I'm actually correcting: Mr. Ressel, Minister of State, met Mr. Schmid on 16 February. A conversation was held on 1 March. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5491	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5513	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fink, your speech was truly forward-looking. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] It was forward-looking and exciting in the face of a budget debate that really concerns financing this year. With each of your words you have made contributions of great kind for the future. They were really forward-looking. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Turn back!]] But in my opinion, you stick to the movie "And eternally sleeps the marmot." It seems to me that the ÖVP has actually slept for the last 14 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fink:... hear the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with one aspect of transport policy, namely transport safety. It is safe to deal with well-being and, in particular, with mutual consideration. It ensures a smooth process of transport. Safety has a lot to do with providing protection for weaker road users, such as protection for children, elderly people, pedestrians, cyclists or the disabled. What is the objective of increased transport safety measures, ladies and gentlemen? – Firstly, the prevention of accidents, the prevention of tragic, very personal fates, the safe management of traffic situations and, above all, the guarantee of the mobility of people. [[Abg. Silhavy: (in the direction of the Federal Minister of the Interior Dipl.-Ing. But the Minister doesn't listen!]] Legal regulations, controls and surveillance, penalties, information, information and awareness-raising are necessary for this package. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Minister speaks! The Minister is not interested in road safety!]] Did he get away? - Oh, yeah, exciting. Good. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: This minister is not interested in road safety at all! That's what you see! He's chatting in the blues instead of listening! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He's in the club!]] [[Further calls.]] The Minister apparently does not want to hear any positive aspects of the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are the risks in road transport, public transport, ladies and gentlemen? – Minister! [[Abg. Parnigoni: He turns his back! Inhospitable!]] 30 dead in Easter holidays speak a clear language. The balance sheet... [[Abg. Parnigoni: How the Minister behaves, this is a shame!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Incredible! That's not an inn!]] Minister! It is about road and public transport risks. The Transport Safety Board has taken stock of this. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Only full-lids are interested in this! Yes, this is stated in the newspaper: Only the full-lids are interested in it!]] What risks do we find? First of all, the risk of alcohol: Enlightenment and control are still important and necessary. Drinking drivers, ladies and gentlemen, are absolutely unacceptable! A few figures on this: 0.5 Promills double the risk of accident, 0.8 promills quadruple, and 1.2 promills double the risk of accident compared to the fasting state. An EU-wide report of the European Transport Safety Council concluded that there was an EU-wide reduction in accidents by half by more control. Another risk under the title "On a track to ruin" is the single-track motorized. They are still highly endangered road users. Risk of children in road transport: In 1999, 37 children were killed in road traffic. 21 children were co-drivers in cars. 30 percent of these killed children were unsecured in the car. Risk group Seniors: In 1999, 182 pedestrians were killed. Half of these killed pedestrians were 65 years old and older. There were 68 fatally injured cyclists. In this context, I think we must ask ourselves whether this group of wild game is on the road. A death factor is also the pace. Three-quarters of the killed left their lives in the open country, more than half of the killed children were car drivers. Ladies and gentlemen, 38.3 percent of the fatal accidents caused the tempo rush. A statement by the Board of Directors on Transport Safety on this: Road traffic must not become the arena of aggressions, must not be the arena of aggressions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The risk group "Remote to safety belts" shall: The risk for non-angrified car drivers is nine times higher than for those who have been hooked up. Of all car drivers or passengers killed, 50 percent were unsecured on the road. But what is still necessary for increased road safety? – According to ARBÖ, for example, the construction of two-tube road tunnels, the driving test and the training of the handlebars of light vehicles. A holiday travel regulation is absolutely necessary, also pan strips on all motorways as well as more control of truck drivers and truck traffic. I would also like to mention the risk group Inline-Skater. There is the motto "No risk but fun"; 12,000 injured per year speak their language. Training and training are absolutely necessary and important. In an EU-wide survey, transport safety has been identified as a top priority among EU citizens. In order to increase this safety, there were some wishes of the respondents, namely first of all, after improving driving training, second after increased controls and monitoring and third, after tougher penalties for road harm. Minister! With a view to increasing road safety, you are required to implement and implement further measures and legislation. Safety in public transport is also a command of the hour. Three projects in my state of Lower Austria are certainly also to be seen in connection with more safety of the users, namely the Semmering Base Tunnel – the old route in a bad condition, a safety risk for the users of the trains – the bypass of St. Pölten, which concerns the question of the capacity and thus also a question of safety, and - especially in view of the statements about setting up the secondary railways - "my" Ybbstal-Bahn, whose attitude would also result in a shift to the road and thus an increase in road traffic and thus an increase in the accident risks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! Clear guidelines, clear structures, comprehensible decisions and, above all, the safeguarding of the financial base and the financial resources are required. Austria's best-known, ecologically oriented transport policy must continue, ladies and gentlemen, across the EU. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to join the ARBÖ's call for greater awareness, which contributes significantly to the partnership of road transport. Our goal must be: Cooperation instead of competition, responsibility instead of indifference among all road users.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5720	The next speaker was Mrs Schottel-Delacher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5741	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For years the road was blocked by the division of rail and road into different ministries of a meaningful, targeted and thus forward-looking transport policy. The result of this questionable power struggle between rail and road is a sad record: On the one hand, there is still no comprehensive road and rail transport concept, and on the other we are facing an oppressive debt mountain. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the end of 1999, the debt levels of ÖBB, SCHIG and ASFINAG amounted to 170 billion schilling. Interest payments for these debts alone could cover much of this year's transport investment. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But not all of them just made the One, there were some before too!]] This was the starting point for the new government. With the new Federal Ministry Act, this government has decided in a first courageous step the long-overdue combination of road and rail into a ministry, thus creating the basic prerequisite for the development of a meaningful logistics concept. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In reality, it is true that neither on the road nor on the rail could the entire volume of goods be managed by itself. A German study even shows that it required a doubling of the infrastructure for a shift of only 8 percent of freight traffic from the road to the rail. Each of these two main modes of transport has its strengths and weaknesses. If Austria wants to take a significant position in the European transport market, it will be necessary to force and combine the strengths of both modes of transport, both economically and ecologically, and to reduce the weaknesses. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So let us finally stop playing road and rail against each other and focus on the strengths of both modes of transport! For example, in order to make rail more attractive for freight transport in the future, railways will have to focus on different areas. The Austrian Federal Railways have a real productivity problem compared with the other European railways on the one hand and the road on the other. It is therefore urgent to launch additional measures to increase productivity. In a European comparison of farm productivity, the ÖBB is one of the behind-places. While the Dutch state railways bring about 4 900 kilometres per employee to the rail, the SBB 3 500 and the DB still 2 900 kilometres per employee, the equivalent of the ÖBB is only 2 200 kilometres per employee. [[Abg. Swimlein: But geographical differences are already known to you, are they?]] There is a need for action here! [[Abg. Edler: There are already differences between Austria and the Netherlands!]] Switzerland is bringing 3,500 kilometers per employee to the rail – these are 1,700 more than in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In terms of productivity, the decommissioning of unprofitable routes should not be declared taboo from the outset. In addition to increasing productivity, cooperation with other European railways will become increasingly important, as only a high-performance rail can achieve market attractiveness at European level. However, in order to be such an interesting and powerful partner for European railways, Austrian railways must also set out targeted infrastructural measures – a priority series will be essential in this regard. A more customer-oriented and flexible supply design continues to be needed. In the freight transport sector, the attractiveness of the railway could be significantly increased, because today transport is no longer only made up of the simple movement of the goods from A to B, but rather in a complex logistics chain, which requires the provision of complete solutions and special transports. And especially in this area, the trains should seek the freight forwarder as a cooperation partner and not as a confrontation partner. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] Further measures are also needed in the area of road transport to meet the requirements of a modern transport concept. In addition to the already mentioned loophole programs and those measures that would force the safety standards – such as the extension to two-way tunnels where they are particularly dangerous – existing safety rules such as those for the transport of dangerous goods must also be reviewed and, if necessary, new ones. The truck road pricing and ecopoints regulation will also take account of the economic and environmental requirements of modern transport concepts if – and only if! – they are based on state-of-the-art technologies such as the fully electronic toll system or do not make sense to hinder the competitiveness of the important economic factor in transport compared to foreign competition by removing ecopoints from our local freight carriers and assigning them to foreign competitors. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A modern, cross-border and cross-border transport concept can only be achieved through constructive proposals and targeted measures. All measures aimed solely at preventing and enhancing traffic are counterproductive and ultimately at the expense of consumers. The new government has recognised that in the future it will not have to deal with ideologies, but with meaningful logistics solutions. And with the combination of road and rail, it has taken a first long-standing step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5847	The next speaker was Mr Dietachmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5868	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Although this government has acted with the slogan "Rerule Austria" but in practice it is not noticed. Where are the reforms announced in particular in the field of transport, Mr Federal Minister? My colleague Binder referred to a sub-sector, namely road safety. – I am missing the practical proposals, the government’s initiatives, it is nothing to see. I think you are making the mistake that you just want to manage, but no new initiatives, no effective steps, such as actions in the field of spirit drivers. Every day we hear about it, but you don't take practical steps or measures. I can give you an example, which shows that it is possible to become active from politics. For example, our oberösterreicher Verkehrsreferent, the current Landeshauptmann deputy, Haider, is putting things into practice: In the Linz area, the first claws have already been mounted to make the wrong driveway drive impossible. Where are your initiatives, I wonder. Or another example of road safety: Especially for the weakest traffic participants, namely the school children, there are in Upper Austria, again initiated by Haider, the action "Safe to School, safely home". In the case of nearly 10,000 road accidents in Upper Austria in 1999, six dead and 911 injured children were to be complained. In about 185 days of schooling per year, almost every day of schooling a child fails. That must give us reason to believe that this must lead to action! You can't talk about too little money. One has to initiate modern campaigns that involve the media, such as in Upper Austria, for example, with the action "Klix 2000: Safe to the school – safe to go home" happens. With this symbol figure Klix, the sluggard, on the one hand, more attention is given to the children, on the other hand, but on the other hand also other road users are involved, especially with topics that are also discussed in school, such as car, school bus, bicycle, road safety – a whole range of possibilities. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Helmi!]] However, I lack the practical means of implementation. Another area of road safety, which my previous speaker has just cut short, concerns the transport of dangerous goods. What do you do about it in practice, except that our gendarmerie officials have even been promised to do so across the EU, because they control it so perfectly? But in my opinion, far too little is happening in this regard! Recently, in Upper Austria, a case was known to have been stopped on the Innkreis Autobahn, a cooling car that, in addition to the weekend ban, did not transport, as indicated, onions, but 20 tons of highly toxic chemicals. Or another area that has already been addressed today, namely the effect of the 0.5-promille limit. ==References== In January 1998, the proportion of alcoholized accident drivers decreased by 25 percent compared to previous years. The share also fell by 7 percent in 1999! It is important, however, that this balance sheet could be much better, and more publicity would be done in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With the help of communication and marketing measures, the impact of the controls by the executive would be improved and the number of fatalities and injuries would be significantly reduced. In this regard, Mr Federal Minister – but you obviously are not interested in this – saving money is a carefree way of dealing with human life, ladies and gentlemen, given the disastrous accident balance in 1999. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid talks to the president-in-chief Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn]] [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] I also lack practical measures regarding the exorbitant increase in truck traffic. I find nothing in this budget that you might be able to take advantage of. The facts are well known to us, but what are you doing about them? It is clear that production in low-cost countries is paying off because transport costs almost nothing and the different wage levels in each country also make it possible. [[Abg. Böhacker: Before this all was different!]] The transport costs nothing, so you just go back to washing the potato to another country and with the washed and decomposed potatoes. Just-in-time is known to us. The warehouses, materials and components are disappearing from the production facilities. But what happens? – For this purpose, thousands of trucks are on the road as driving warehouses that block our highways and federal roads. [[Abg. Aumayr: It's all just since 4. February!]] I also lack practical measures and examples, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Solution approaches are more than excessive. This is to be done together with the Board of Directors for Transport Safety, the Automobile Clubs and others. However, this also requires funds that are missing in this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion: To sum up, it must be noted that the statutory expenditure is not sufficiently budgeted and that the discretion expenditure has also been reduced by 15 percent. This makes it clear again that transport safety is not an issue for this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5960	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl in word. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e5981	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For the first time, the new Federal Ministry Act places the competences for road and rail in a single hand. This means, for Austria, the opportunity to view the development of transport infrastructure as a synergistic co-operation of all modes of transport. It offers the possibility of creating a road and rail comprehensive road map with clearly defined priorities. In the area of rail infrastructure, Transport Minister Schmid has become known for the priority development of the West Railway in recent weeks. However, the Westbahn goes not only to Salzburg, but also to Vorarlberg and leads through the Tyrolean Unterinntal. As a Tyrolean, I am therefore twice surprised that the already ongoing planning of the section from Kufstein to Radfeld is now to be stopped. The extension in the Unterinntal is also part of the high-performance railway from Munich to Verona, and thus we are just at the point: In the Tiroler Unterinntal, the East-West transport and the North-South transport are superimposed. – The protests of the Tyrolean population therefore do not come about. For years traffic on the motorways has increased by far disproportionately through the Unterinntal and over the Brenner. For example, traffic on the motorway near Kufstein increased by 53 percent between 1991 and 1998, as can be seen from the report on the transport development of Tyrol for 1999. 1.5 million trucks rolled over the burner in 1999 alone – 186,000 trucks and 14.3 percent more than 1998. And now we are reading that a further increase of 12 percent over the previous year has already been recorded in the first three months of 2000. However, according to traffic forecasts, this is far from the end. Ladies and gentlemen! The people in Tyrol need an alternative. The shift from at least the increase in traffic to the rail must not be a keyword! [[General condolences.]] For such a shift, a corresponding rail infrastructure is imperative. The capacity limit of the railway has long been exceeded in the section between Kundl, Radfeld and Baumkirchen. More freight trains on the rail are therefore only possible with further restrictions on passenger trains. This needle tube is now being removed thanks to God. However, the next bottlenecks are at Kufstein and above the burner. The economy, the sparkers and the motorway operators have already recognized the signs of time. A few weeks ago, Fercam, one of the largest Italian freighters, founded a railway operator company with the South Tyrol Brenner Autobahn, which will make the state railways on the Brenner axis competitive. It doesn't matter if he earns his money on the street or on the rail. [[Calls and calls between Mr Edler and Mr Mag. Kukacka.]] A representative of Fercam said in the "Economic Sheet" – I quote –: The road reaches the capacity limits as a transport route. The offer of the railway operators is not an alternative. What helps is quick liberalisation and private competition. We will reduce prices by 20 percent in order to be competitive. - Quote. [[It is a pleasure for representatives of the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] But the operators obviously expect a business anyway. That is why I wonder if I hear of a lack of business profitability on the Brenner route. But the further liberalisation of this area and the expansion of rail infrastructure are absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also true that there are even more trucks on the southeast tangent than on the Brenner route. But I have to point out the special situation in the Alpine valleys, without wanting to play out the loads of people against each other. In the Tyrolean Unterinntal, 80 percent of the population live. This valley is cut by car and railway. An emission-climatological study by Ökoscience Lufthygiene AG for Unterinntal had the following results in 1999: The emission burden is already significantly above the statutory limits, especially in the case of nitrogen oxides and ozone. The ozone exposure exceeds the limits of the Austrian Academy of Sciences at all stations. New findings on long-term fine dusts show that significant health consequences can already be expected in today's load; their national economic costs go up to billions. There is one more to say that railway development is not projected at national level! [[As a result, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Dr. ……]] [[Abg. Bravo!]] Alpine transit axes are particularly burdened by the high traffic volume and by the fact that inversions in the Alpine valleys prevent the exchange of air masses, especially during the night and winter! Ladies and gentlemen! Such an alpine valley is like a tub with a lid in which, when the wind goes, the dirt swims back and forth. That's different in the plain. In addition, emissions during the night result in more than twenty-fold emission exposure than during the day without inversion. This means that the pollutants inhaled by our children today would rise by three times, alone and without increased traffic, if we shift today's traffic more into the night. The maintenance of the night's ban is therefore indispensable for the Tyroleans. [[Congratulations on MEPs from the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Nevertheless, the higher nocturnal toll on the Brenner may now be tipped by the European Court of Justice, and the ecopoints rule is waving! Only a consistent shift from the road to the rail can reduce the pollution and noise pollution in the funnel Inntal. In addition, it is only on the old track that a cycle traffic for commuters can be set up again and a shift from the road to the rail can take place. [[Congratulations on MEPs from the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I can also say: We do not build a high-performance route for transit traffic in Tyrol only for our neighbours. Italy and Germany have also committed themselves to expanding the Brenner axis, but there are still reserves there. Setting up the planning at Kufstein is the wrong signal. The EU pays because the Brenner axis is so important for Europe, half of the planning and 10 percent of the construction costs. The potential for savings is not 250 million schilling, but only 125 million schilling. 125 million we give to the EU! The Brenner Base Tunnel would be easy to finance from the tolls of the Brenner motorway. Head of State Weingartner has long called for this funding. The Italian motorway has already reserved money for this purpose. In the construction of the motorway, Tirol was the only lender to the federal government, and the Europabrücke was then called an insanity planning. Today, more than 20 billion schillings are generated annually. [[Abg. Eder: 20 billion?]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: 20 billion on the Europabrücke?]] – 2 billion schilling on the Brenner motorway, I promised, 20 years ago I meant! Transport Minister Schmid seems to have recognized the problems. He wants to demonstrate together with the Tyroleans on the motorway against the massive traffic load, which is what we are pleased with. But as Minister of Transport, he must draw from it the only correct consequence, namely the rapid expansion of the entire Unterinntalbahn and the construction of the Brenner base tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6087	Next speaker: Mr Reheis. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6108	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Hakl has shown it to you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but now what Tyrolean transport policy is! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – Mr Hakl! Complementary, this speech is not an addition! Congratulations! You may well have my speech, and I see some points in my papers which I will now drop. But the faces with you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, were impressive! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] One could see what contradictions this speech has raised in the ranks of the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: Not at all!]] - Complementary, colleague! [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We are not a Unity Party, but a People's Party!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget analysis shows, and in itself, the inadequacies of this Federal Government and, in particular, the Minister of Transport. Instead of the planned reduction, I will come to the ecopoints, according to the transit agreement, 7.4 million transit trucks will donate over Austria's roads over the next four years. This means an annual frequency of 1.85 million heavy vehicles. Of that, colleague Hakl, more than 70 percent go over the burner. In the first quarter of 2000 alone – you also mentioned this – the numbering points on the Brenner motorway at the truck recorded an increase of 12 percent. 366 430 heavy trucks happened in the first three months of the year the toll station Schönberg, of which about 80 percent were transit trucks. A reduction in the load on transport and the load on people and nature is not foreseeable. People on these transit routes will continue to be more and more exposed to noise. And the noise, ladies and gentlemen, makes us all sick! [[The speaker presents a tablet with glued newspaper cuts with the headline: "The noise makes us all sick!" in advance to the speaker's desk.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The extremely bad state of the Tyrolean forest, which already has 54 percent damage, is a clear indication of the increasing transit traffic. It was found that nitrogen oxide values rose strongly to very high in 1999 at all Tyrolean nitrogen oxide measuring points. Furthermore, it has been found and is not unknown that almost the entire nitrogen oxide load is caused by road traffic. Also the ex-land forestry director of the state of Tyrol, Hofrat Herbert Scheiring, said in the "Tyrol daily" – I quote –: The fact that the value of the Tyrolean forest alone constitutes 1.4 trillion schilling as an avalanche protection facilitates a balance between the need for protection forest function and the demand for unhindered road transport, whose emissions damage the forests. - Quote. Dramatic enough, ladies and gentlemen! Change is not in sight! Back to ecopoints: In 1999, the contractually fixed reference figure was exceeded by 14 percent. The transit agreement, which was concluded before the EU accession between Austria and the EU, states that the number of ecopoints for transit trucks should be reduced if the maximum number of 1.49 million journeys was exceeded by more than 8 percent in one year. That was the case in 1999. Thus, the number of ecopoints planned should be reduced by around 2.4 million – that is 350 000 lorries. To date, there is no definitive solution, because to date the EU's transit committee has not dealt with the reduction of ecopoints. This also raises the question of the extent to which a permanent postponement does not constitute a breach of law and contract. And from your side, Mr. Federal Minister, the necessary pressure to enforce this contractually established EU regime is lacking. In addition, your side lacks a clear statement about the toll stretching of the Brenner motorway to the Inntal-Maut. Tell us, Minister of State, what you are planning about Inntal-Tout! Do we risk a conviction by the EU and a refund of around 2.5 billion schilling to the fishermen? And now to the railway, Mr. Federal Minister, to the Bundesbahn: Once the railway project in the Tiroler Unterland is supported and then questioned again. They're in the "Tyrol Newspaper" of 9. May itself said: "All we're doing in the West right now is questioning." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Improvements are necessary in this traffic situation and there is no deterioration. And that's to question! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These examples, ladies and gentlemen, show that the infrastructure policy of the FPÖ/ÖVP government is chaotic and unthinkable, and this traffic-political chaos is also documented with the attitude of the FPÖ unit government to the Semmering Base Tunnel, to the west railway expansion when the construction of the Lainzer Tunnel and to the freight transport of St. Pölten, to secondary railway settings and so on. Federal Minister! They should confess themselves to the indispensableity of the trail in the Lower Inntal and also finally stand out for the two-track gap in the Upper Inntal between Ötztal and St. Anton. In other words, while a four-track extension is being discussed elsewhere, despite the long-standing approval procedure, the Upper Inntal does not even have a double-track extension. This section of the route is neglected and, if nothing happens, proceeds from a main route to the secondary railway. You can't want to do that, Minister of State. Finally, the "only protection power for Austrian drivers" – the quote Westenthaler, who is not here now, dated 27. ==References== ==References== March 1996: "The liberals in principle reject a new scrapping action for the drivers named Maut." Where did the FPÖ, Mr Westenthaler, stay only when the tariffs for the car tolls were increased from 550 to 1 000 s? – This government does not know any mercy, but if the Blue Single Government for the Früchterlobby approves the previous annual vignette for trucks between 7.5 and 12 tons from 12 000 S to 10 000 S, the side on which this government stands. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] While the freighters and bus operators can recover their VAT from it, the private car drivers are full of paper. Heavy trucks of 40 tonnes higher pay less than previously taxes and charges. There's no mention of a toll vignette at all. For this, however, these are more burdened by the high axle loads than ever by the motorways. The insurance tax increases by 51 percent, the truck toll is pushed to the long bank, the toll vignette is spent on 1,000 s, private drivers pay 7 billion more schilling, entrepreneurs are spared, spray prices are galloping from it and, and, and. Still straining and nurturing! Where has it remained, the only protection force for Austrian drivers?, I ask Mr Westenthaler, who unfortunately is not here, but probably gives some of his words to the press again for the best? If this is no further evidence that the FPÖ World Champions are in promise and without skrupel, these promises will be broken – then what? As promised, so broken, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! The protection force FPÖ has never existed! She was and is only sound and smoke!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6210	The next speaker was Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6232	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not the advocate of Mrs Hakl. I was impressed by her speech, too. She was inflamed and engaged. But this coalition is new to discussion, the ringing for opinions – and not Kadaver obedience, as you, ladies and gentlemen, put it to the fore. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bravo! Yes, I do!]] We know the story of his time, Mr Parnigoni, when you needed a colleague to vote as she should. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Helmut! Helmut!]] So we know the stories. Our memory is not that short, even in terms of the transit contract. Let's remember: Who negotiated this thing? – Mr Klima, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Klima!]] And then exactly what we fear and what you have denied is that transit traffic is increasing with your transit contract, which is supposed to have been so excellent. And that's the story we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. If you think you can solve the problems with a steam locomotive-nostalgic transport policy, then you are on the famous wood road. You've had enough time to put all the demands you've made today, a few days after you've fled the government, on the table. You've had enough time. You have had a strong majority, you have had a two-thirds majority in Parliament. What did you do? Nothing! They were sitting in the chair and watched each other in the coalition. You have let go of a brake coalition, ladies and gentlemen, to the Austrians. – That only once. Federal Minister! Of course, we in this coalition believe that a prosperous economic location needs a positive transport policy and that, above all, functioning logistics is one of the most important prerequisites for the choice of location. This means that the extension of the West Railway to a high performance line is the most important prerequisite for the economic location of West Austria and the whole of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. We know very well that science also formulates that the mobile production factors – entrepreneurs, businesses, qualified workers, capital – migrate to where they find as attractive location specific production conditions as possible. That's actually it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no reasonable person can understand that now in Salzburg – with this I come to my federal state, to the federal country from which I come – the preventers are at work and suppose to be able to prevent the extension of the route from Schwanenstadt to Salzburg to the high-performance route. This must not happen in the interests of the jobs of young people and the future, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is a snap idea to carry freight traffic, as was required by some self-proclaimed experts, via Braunau and passenger transport via Salzburg. I should therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, and in particular you, Federal Minister, not to lend ear to those cranewinkers and church tower politicians who think they can prevent the expansion of the HL line by their nods. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] Politics has the task of looking beyond the edge of the plate and shaping the future. Those who do not shape the future will become the bankruptcy administrator of the present, ladies and gentlemen. And I am a liberal for innovative transport policy, for a transport policy that is not against the road, against the railway and against everything. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever confesses to the environment, to the positive design of the environment, who is for the opportunities of youth, our children and grandchildren, who confesses to the economic prosperity of the Greater Salzburg-Oberösterreich region in the future, must confess himself to the expansion of this HL line. I am not saying this as a local politician, but also in responsibility for the entire West of our Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the whole West because we know that in particular Salzburg in the monarchy, in the time of the emperor, was the Armenian House of the Monarchy, and only when the Elisabeth Railway, the West Railway, was extended and then extended to Munich, did it go upward in our region, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I defend myself with all my arrogance against church-tower politicians who suppose to be able to incite the population with cheap promises in order to prevent the future of the country from being made positive. I would ask you, Minister, to listen to the thinking, innovative people in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6329	Mr Schwamlein spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. Please, start playing the claim you want to correct!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6353	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haigermoser claimed that Member Parnigoni would have "needed" someone in a vote. [[Lively calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's what everyone saw!]] - That's wrong! And that has already been set correctly several times by actual corrections. The fact is: Mr Parnigoni has not "needed" anyone. Mr President. I expect you to give a call for order alone for the accusation that you need someone!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6420	Mr Parnigoni spoke in favour of a further actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6445	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haigermoser has also claimed that the transit agreement has been concluded by Minister Klima. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes, negotiate with the EU!]] Negotiating, yes, right. He also claimed that the transit contract would increase the volume of traffic. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] – Both are wrong! The transit agreement has been negotiated by Mr Streicher. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The first time! The second time of climate!]] Not at all. This was negotiated before the EU Treaty. Secondly, The transit contract has not increased traffic, but has ecologized it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now I just heard something different! That's where you have to meet!]] Since then, we have a 40 percent reduction in nitrogen oxides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6520	In connection with the statements made by Mr Haigermoser and the word 'necessity', I shall be presented with the Stenographical Protocol in order to be able to see exactly the context of your statement. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6544	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject that I would like to make briefly also reflects a really missing transport policy of the blue-black government. Please remember the words of your Minister for Finance Grasser, who said that social justice should be made possible in a special way. This is really white cynicism when I look at the budget figures. Not only does the new government massively pull up the tax screw among drivers – an average of 2 000 S more –, no, even in public transport – that has already been said several times today, the citizens expect a number of massive deteriorations. The public transport funds are reduced in the budget presented, which, of course, endangers all public transport attractions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You must not forget the redistribution!]] Expenditure on transport associations will be reduced by 100 million schilling, and this can only be saved through tariff increases or massive restrictions within the framework of the transport associations, as you can probably calculate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The Mödlinger Tunnel – we have already talked about it. At the same time, the Federal Government does not comply with its obligations laid down in Sections 24 to 26 of the Transport Act, which requires 80 million Schilling for the countries and 20 million Schilling for the municipalities. The cost of rail infrastructure is also greatly reduced. This puts the urgent expansion of public transport back on track. Thus, as has already been said today, no less than 350 million Schillings are available for public transport, which the transport companies would have expected to continue to budget. And at the same time – today I have heard, until 2002 – the road pricing for trucks is towed. Instead, the blue-black government shrunks the drivers and goes to the knees in front of the milling lobby. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say to this government: Whoever saves heavy traffic and at the same time reduces public transport resources, guarantees the unbridled increase in heavy traffic. The roads are broken down and our country is being broken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's it!]] Come on. She then did not ask to complain about a missing transport policy, because the slogan "Rail instead of traffic addicts" at that time was pitifully smiled, but he had his correctness. Every tonne more on the rail is also an anti-stausal programme, Mr Haigermoser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Maybe it's Your slogan: "Verkehrslawine prolonged – tax package for the donors". A completely missing way of thinking, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Haigermoser: You didn't understand!]] I myself come from the busiest district of Austria, from the district of Mödling, and especially the district of Mödling and the surrounding Vienna meet these cuts particularly hard, because 160 000 cars on the A 2 are not few daily. One more word on the railways, ladies and gentlemen. Director-General Draxler has announced – the Federal Minister has already said this – that he wants to stop 80 percent of the secondary trains. This is an attack on the previously ecologically oriented transport policy and on people's needs. The ecologically oriented handling of both commuting and freight transport on rail must, ladies and gentlemen, be in the interests of all people. By the end of May, Draxler intends to call the Federal Ministry the routes for which he intends to set aside these operating concessions. In view of the importance of the transport policy of the secondary railways, we Socialist MEPs are therefore proposing: [[Quoted print version removed]] Estimated Members of the Government Party! Take this opportunity to quickly guide your completely missing transport policy into the right track!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6669	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, comrades and comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: If we do, do you agree to the budget?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That would be a trick!]] The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6714	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with Chapter 65 of the Federal Finance Act 2000, and I would like to make a positive point at the beginning of this section that, in addition to innovation and technology, the entire transport sector, i.e. rail and road, has been merged. Federal Minister! They are therefore not only available for a huge resort, but also for the expansion of the high-level road and rail network, the extra-budget funding is available to you under the Rail Infrastructure Act and ASFINAG. Federal Minister! In particular, you have pointed out that a total budget framework of 300 billion Schilling, which has already been planned, is available to you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In autumn 1998, one of the reports on the Austrian Federal Roadmap Plan, the Master Plan, was presented by Mr. Federal Minister. We can all remember that this master plan was very strongly debated, especially because many, including experts, felt that this plan prefers above all the expansion of the rails and rather neglects the expansion of the high-level road network. A few months later, the GSD study, prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, was presented. This study had the approach or the main task of adapting the Austrian road network to a pan-European solution and in line with it. In June 1999, i.e. about a year ago, a joint resolution was finally adopted between the Building Committee and the Transport Committee, with which both ministries were asked to carry out these two projects, the Master Plan and the GSD study, and in particular to carry out cross-carriage network and corridor analyses jointly, and finally to bring them together in the Federal Roadmap Plan. Mr. Federal Minister! The conditions have been met: Road and rail are united in your ministry, and you now have the opportunity, but also the opportunity to make a priority line for the necessary investments, taking into account Austria's economic location. You have already pointed out in your remarks that you have mentioned your priorities, particularly with regard to the consideration of European development, and the sense of bringing together the two areas of road and rail. As the Lower Austrian Member of Parliament, I am of course particularly pleased that in your priority list you have also foreseen the extension of the four-track West Railway St. Pölten-Vienna. I would just like to ask, Mr Federal Minister: They have spoken of sensitivity, and especially in this high-performance run through the Tullnerfeld, there is a consensus in almost all municipalities, only in the two municipalities of Weißenkirchen and Würmla there are legitimate concerns and problems. I would therefore ask you, Minister of State, to: Testing In this route, you can take advantage of the advantages and disadvantages again, and consider whether you could give priority to the alternative route that was created there by the communities with the citizens. And now to the freight train St. Pölten. The flooring was carried out, and the construction was also started. There are, however, some problems at the moment, namely, the basic solutions. There are delays here, but there are also uncertainties. I would ask you, Minister of State, to ensure that the provision of this freight transport or the construction setting is not carried out on the back of the "small" people and the property owners. [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Dr. Herbs.]] Now a few thoughts on public passenger and regional transport. We passed this law last year, before the summer break. This created the basis for the long-needed reorganisation of public transport and regional transport. I would like to stress positively the effort made to ensure that the countries and communities are already involved in planning. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! New governance also means a new way of thinking in local and local transport. The reorganisation of public transport and regional transport is all the more important than consideration is given by the Bundesbahn to reduce or even discontinue the supply of trains at secondary trains. I would like to draw attention to a resolution of June 1999 calling on the Federal Ministry of Science and Transport, together with the representatives of the countries, the Austrian Municipal Federation and the Austrian Municipal Government, to set up a working group to identify, now very important, the investment needs of cities and agglomerations in preparation for the next financial compensation, as well as the additional resources of the countries and communities needed to finance the public transport of persons and regions, and to draw up, in the final analysis, concrete proposals, to cover funding and to develop a corresponding priority series. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister! The legal bases and the conditions are created. It is now about implementing these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6791	Next speaker: Mrs Plank. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e6812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. "Small man, what now?" – This is the title of a novel by Hans Fallada, which he wrote in the 1930s, and I would like to present in my contribution to transport policy the unimportantness of the quoted "little man" of this federal government today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My claim number one: Your transport policy, Mr. Federal Minister, is deeply unsocial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can offer evidence of this. The first and probably simplest proof is the: The loads on the drivers have increased dramatically. Car drivers are also often commuters in our country. The price of vignettes was increased to 1 000 s in flight. Mr Kukacka has accused us today, the SPÖ, of holding back old times with us. I didn't know the time for the ÖVP to move so fast, because it was – I quote – still in July 1999: ÖVP Transport Spokesman Helmut Kukacka also noted to his group that an increase in vignette prices would not be possible. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: He forgot!]] It's all forgotten too quickly! [[Abg. Reheis: Alzheimer's!]] Also half a year ago, FPÖ was on a completely different track than she was talking about other policies: "Klares FPÖ-No to increase the vignette fee" – 7. ==References== "The Raubrits are back in progress!" – Former FPÖ Klubobmann and MEP Herbert Scheibner on the request for the increase of the vignette fee. – As far as the speed of time clearly changes when it comes to scrapping the little ones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The little ones also find that the road pricing is further delayed. Some have already mentioned it today. Mr Minister, you said that in July 2002 it will definitely be that far. If it goes after you, there should be an exclusive electronic review. Two years for such a complicated system are a short time. In my opinion, that means: It is still uncertain whether, at least in 2002, transit and truck traffic will be burdened. If there had not been the deceleration policy of the ÖVP, there could have been this road pricing since 1998. That is to say, until the planned date of introduction, there are about 14 billion schillings that could already be in the state funds for conservation, for road construction measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who pays what's missing? – The workers of this country. And why? – There is no 'polluter pays' principle, there is no truth of cost in road transport. This is the main evil. The car drivers finance the transport operators, but they earn their money on the road. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is referred to in the Government Convention as "optimising local transport" is read in the clear text when I look at your actions, as follows: Transport on the rails then, when the countries are ready to pay, not the Federation. No more responsibility. 315 million schilling are missing in 2000 alone. This means, of course, that benefits will also be missing. Where money is missing, the benefits will also be missing. Explain, Mr. Federal Minister, a pensioner in the Sölktal, if she wants to drive to Gröbming and does not even have a bus a day at her disposal, as she is supposed to do. Explain to her that she may no longer have independence, that she is dependent on help or on alms, that anyone is willing to bring her somewhere, because public transport is no longer a concern. Where is the State's responsibility for its people?, I wonder. Or here's what's going on: They're supposed to put the trains and the buses in their hair!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your saloppe formulation, "take notice of reality", as you mentioned it today, I feel cynical and humane. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: But this is not to be put into this context!]] In principle. If politics doesn't even want to shape again, it's lost. They said if the trains are empty or only one drives, then they have to stop. Claim two: They abandon people, and your infrastructure policy is chaotic and unthinkable. The national managing director of ÖVP-Salzburg, Mrs. Landtagsreitte Rogatsch, has formulated in a broadcast "that he" – they were meant to be "exhaustive or unsuspecting". [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid.]] I just quoted from a press release of an ÖVP national managing director. Steiric evidence: Semmering Base Tunnel. Head of State Klasnic posterted: "Perfect!" They say in the "profile": "I convince Pröll" and today call him "frogs that are in the tunnel and that it is worth removing". I tell you, the message I hear is good, but I alone lack faith. A few weeks ago, a Member of your group here in plenary was delighted that this hole is finally being poured down and that no billions are going to go there. That's a member of the Transport Committee, that's a Steirer, and that's a member of your party. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Unheard of!]] I wonder how politics is being done with you. Is it simply uncoordinated what is going on here, or is he sent out as Kassandra, so that you don't have to deliver the bad message. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: diversity of opinion! Free mandate!]] At home, everyone advertises that they are fighting for the regions, for the country, and here in plenary it is quite different. They know the difficult situation in Styria, especially in Upper Styria and in the district of Liezen. You, as a steirer, would have to know these too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Bad luck, "little" man! – Unfortunately, I have to give up some quotations because my speaking time has already been as good as gone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] The construction of the driveway Vorderenberg, which would mean a tourist opening up of this area, will be postponed again, probably on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. The coniferous tube Fordernberg remains. The biggest pieces I would like to present to you today, by which you can prove that you can make a policy, concerns the B 320. For 25 years, people in the Ennstal have been waiting for a traffic solution. But now, obviously, those who want to rerule have no concept either. My requests to Federal Minister Bartenstein and to you have been answered completely differently. Everyone wants something else. State councillor Paierl in Styria says that the infrastructure in this area is in need of development – that is what I mean. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is not a typical freedom!]] By the year 2010, parts are planned between Trautenfels and Mandling, but there is no planning and no means for the route between Liezen and Stainach. Wings You really don't shape it, Mr. Minister? Do you really want to prove how unimportant people are to you there? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Who is a street builder in Styria?]] – You could show a long look and courage here, prove it. We need a concept there, we need a road. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Since when is Ressel a liberal?]] We don't need a transit, we need a powerful road that protects the people who live there. Please, act, Minister! – "B 320" is the new title for the former B 146 Ennstal Bundesstraße. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid.]] She's called B 320 now.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7027	The next speaker was Mrs Burket. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7061	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! 7 billion schilling loads are a package of immeasurable horrors. As I heard on the radio this morning, however, there is an action day in Austria, although I like it when the ÖGB does something good to its members and cleans the car disks at the red lights. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] 47 billion Schilling – but this from a red finance minister – was a necessity that could not be shut down even by the said ÖGB. As long as there has been a red or red-dominated government, as long as the social partners have been silent, there have been a maximum of a few attempts to preserve their faces, but only not too loud. Now hardly a day goes by without new threats from these social partners. Ladies and gentlemen! If there were to be a great deal of burden that had no positive impact on the budget, I wonder: Where is the responsibility of these social partners? How many billions could one have saved alone with a long-term transport concept for Vienna? The transport situation in Vienna is a poverty certificate for urban planning and an example of how not to do it. The Vienna traffic situation is mainly characterised by the fact that urban development is lagging behind and there is no forward-looking. Reality dictates the needs – so it is. Thousands of apartments are put into the green area, but no one is thinking about connecting to the subway. In the past there was the key word, the community builds a new settlement consisting of 500 to 1,000 apartments, a trafic, a pharmacy and a "consumer". The "consumer" is no longer available, the rest is still like that. The city can only spread on its edge, which is as simple as logical. What are our traffic planners doing? – They let all subways end right in front of these areas of hope. Why does the now extended U3 on Simmeringer's main road end when the Thürnlhof settlement and Kaiserebersdorf come behind it, where thousands of people live?- Oh, my God! You choose the car for understandable reasons as an alternative to the "71er". On the one hand, people want to get used to driving and on the other hand make the transition to public transport as unattractive as possible. The U1 is the next example of a completely pointless planning. Where does the U1 end? – It ends at Reumannplatz. Where do most people live? – In Rothneusidl and a little further, in the Per-Albin-Hansson settlement, both in the old as well as in the new one. The other end of the U1 should also be mentioned in half, for there it looks like: The end station is the Donauzentrum, and after the Donauzentrum come the Großfeld settlement and all other large settlement areas in Leopoldau. So there is a concentration of people who have all cars and they also need to get to work. I know you can't build a subway on every major road from Vienna, but you can think on the route planning as long as your own nose is long and deal with the future projects of the city planners and only then plan the traffic relationships that will be necessary to meet the inevitable need. The feeder buses to the now existing subway stations have intervals, which also teach an ambitious "official" driver graying. If you have to change three times, any public transport will lose a car. That's innovation. That is a fact, unfortunately. Since I myself travel to the public at 90 percent, and that all over Vienna, I can already allow myself to judge here. The fact that the park-and-ride system in Erdberg is too large and too far away and therefore unattractive and that the park-and-ride system is far too small and not planned for happy, only rounds the picture off. Too small the parking spaces are dimensioned, too short the routes of the subway – so is the future-oriented transport planning of Vienna. But from the Vienna city administration, no one is angry about the many cars in the city, especially not Mr Svihalek and Mr Häupl. One sells parking space that he does not have, and the other improves with the money his cash to throw it out elsewhere. [[Abg. Eder: Goerg has to tell you that!]] [[Calls and calls between the Abg. Edlinger, Eder and Schwarzenberger.]] If that's true, what's in the paper, the "Life Ball" has cost 135 million schilling. That's a proud prize for a few naughty pop screechs. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In order to move the population to change to public transport, there is no need for an expensive advertising campaign, but an attractive offer. The fastest means of transport is the subway. It must therefore be the first priority in any transport planning in Vienna of metro construction. To make driving hell with earwashing and shock to the drivers only causes trouble and accidents. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we now have a transport minister who doesn't want to go further, as it has happened so far, then it currently means a cut, a clear stop, brain turn on, set priorities. That's the way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If this means that the Lainzer tunnel has to wait because there are more urgent tasks, then a project has to be in favor of a larger one. Transport planning can only be seen in greater contexts. If there is no need for money destruction, but for forward-looking innovation, then greater tasks must be given priority, even if some are disappointed. The four-track extension of the West Railway is such a priority. Planning, vision, responsible handling of tax money and the courage to say no, are what distinguishes our Minister of Transport. This is to be noted, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7135	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7156	Mr President. Federal Minister! They have been very much praised today that there will finally be synergies between rail, road and waterways. But your party colleague, my previous speaker, may not have understood this correctly, because I have actually understood what she has now said as a criticism or as an invitation to the city of Vienna to provide much more funding to the city of Vienna so that it can fulfil its municipal tasks in the field of subway. [[Call to the Freeman: Use better!]] Maybe she didn't think of anything: For four years, their coalition partner, ÖVP City Councillor Görg, has been leading the business that affects all these transport measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You need to be more careful!]] Since we have heard a lot about rail and road today, I would like to turn to a topic that has to be addressed in the area of water, not only because we hear daily in the media that agriculture is affected by water shortages. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Take care of it a little bit better, then understand it too!]] We have – I say as Marchfelder quite consciously – been set up a century project, namely the Marchfeld Canal. I know very well, Minister of Transport, that you have inherited this problem, but you do not need to tell me today that perhaps the Social Democratic Ministers would have been guilty of it, because it always fell within the competence of the Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel, Ditz and Farnleitner and, in customary tradition, into the competence of the Hoefinger and Blochberger Councils of Lower Austria. What happened? – A century project has been built thanks to God in the 1980s and flooded in 1992. What do we have right now? – I claim: an almost unnecessary bypass that moves from Langenzersdorf parallel to the Danube to Hainburg, but the necessary resources, namely the groundwater increase – the most original and the most direct task of this waterway – have not yet been achieved. Why are they not reached? – Because no agreement can be reached in the field of the operating company and also between the federal government, your ministry and the federal state of Lower Austria: Who's gonna pay for that? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] – In the end, this would be too easy to turn to the affected neighbouring communities. I notice: We urgently need this functional Marchfeld channel with a corresponding groundwater dosage. A branch-sicker operation, as it is so beautiful, with which 30 liters are brought to the shilling, is of no use to us, we need much more for sicking. I doubt that the current project will be sufficient with a central sifting in German-Wagram. Rather, I demand several sifting stations, because otherwise this would mean that an uncontrolled water level increase would tangle the still existing old loads. Dear Minister! I hope – not only in view of the harvest failures to be expected this year – that you will take steps as far as possible to reach an agreement with the Federal State of Lower Austria in order to operate this Marchfeld Canal as originally planned. One last: There has already been a great deal of talk about infrastructure in the various areas of our state today. Since I was just at the Marchfeld, I have to say the following: Minister! Be aware of the infrastructure of the wine district, which is, in other words, a disaster. We plan a North motorway, which, if you do not plan the corresponding discharge models in time, will become a very expensive parking lot from Wolkersdorf to Vienna and through Vienna. This means a maximum planning phase for the North-East and the North-West Spain of Vienna. The daily mega statue is programmed anyway. One last thing: It was also said that traffic routes would have to be expected. We have very simple examples: From what you can transport with 1 hp on the road, you can transport the four times on the track and the ten times on the waterway. There has been a very meaningful, forward-looking project for many years, namely the project of the Danube-Oder-Elbe-Channel. Although it is written and discussed in the media in regular classification, whenever it is intended to go into the planning phase, this project is rejected again. – Minister! Please also check this project with regard to the development of the Eastern Region, but also with regard to environmental discharge!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7232	Mr Zweytick is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7254	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's economic location in this Europe, in this European Union increasingly and increasingly also becomes a location-marketing question, and the transport infrastructure plays an important role in this. As a member of the South Styrian border country, I agree with the one with regard to the introduction of the dual toll system by 1. To draw attention to the problems to be expected on July 2002. We know this regulation, we passed this law last year. What we, especially many Members from all the federal states, have not been able to know, but when it comes to the decision-making process, is that this toll point regulation, as well as this obsolete dual system, will not only create a problem, but also a large number of problems for the transport infrastructure of this, if I may say so, location marketings. We are constantly in competition across Europe – what is reaching Austria's economic location. We believe that it is very useful, as the Minister has announced, to wait with patience – really with patience. Since we are already offered a WAP phone around 900 S today, it is quite realistic, in a year or maybe even with a six month delay or only with 1. January 2003 is a perfect electronic system with GPS, as our German neighbours have long been the largest export trading partner in Austria. This would also give compatibility with this so important export trading partner. We should wait here reasonably, research, try and investigate in order to avoid the mistakes we have made in the past in time. All parties agreed throughout the morning that there were major failures in the area of transport infrastructure. The railway infrastructure has so far been significant and outstanding. All the parties here in the house agree! So now we are not making a minister who is in office for 100 days responsible for what has been missed in the last 30 years or more. We should be so honest. In view of this important question, I appeal to you because it is also about human life and safety on our roads. I appeal to the solidarity of all those present in this House, which has been missed, now, under the most difficult conditions, to pick up as much as possible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer]] [[New call of the abg. Sophie Bauer.]] It's about more than whether a track or a road is being built there, it's about the location, it's about safety, and it's about being modern. Austria is in a Europe where all the other countries show us how it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Especially the region in the south-east, south-west, south-west, which is a region on the border to the east, on the border to the south, as you want, but in all cases it is on the border to become and will become an EU member in a few years, has in its infrastructure deficit areas, which, I believe, must be particularly observed in the coming years, because it is also about enlargement. Especially in this area, this region could also create competitive disadvantages in the future, which we could and should fight carefully in advance with the necessary modernisation of infrastructure. All the mayors of the district of Leibnitz and the district of Bad Radkersburg have written a resolution in autumn in which they oppose this form of dual toll system, but also against this toll point regulation. The result: Immediately, 15 kilometers on the Slovenian border, there was a classic, sharp passage of this toll station, which would bring traffic, heavy traffic, to the federal roads. This would currently affect the municipalities Lebring, Wildon et cetera. Thus one could get around this toll point according to the current regulation, which would mean that not 9 000 cars would travel through these communities and cities every day, but 20 000. There would also be heavy traffic. The living space, the security and the responsibility of politicians towards these people in this region are very important, and so you cannot blindly give such a regulation the so-called Amen and not change anything. I am very happy that the Minister is thinking about this and is looking at other ways of doing it because it makes sense. It makes sense to have learned from the mistakes of the past and also the knowledge of it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An example of the disadvantages of the economy in this region in view of the current regulation or the law: A trip from the South Styrian region, for example from Leibnitz to Salzburg, would cause a double toll charge such as a journey from Vienna to Salzburg. For this reason too, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you, when introducing the electronic toll system, to abolish the existing tolls through the Gleinalm tunnel and through the Pyrn without replacing them, because otherwise there would be a disparity between the operations. In view of the future south-east enlargement, account should be taken of this region. It would be, I believe, also in the sense of the European Union, not to weaken the regions at these borders by enlargement, but to strengthen them accordingly so that they are fit to meet the necessary challenges of this enlargement. The infrastructure must be well developed for this purpose. Therefore, there is a demand for the four-track extension of the rail south of Graz, so there is a demand for the rapid implementation of the Semmering base tunnel, and therefore there is also the demand for the realization of the coral tunnel. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is coming to an end. – Minister of State! There are still important questions, which is also essential for the transport network. There are uneven promotions of the federal government. The East-Region Transport Association is supported by 50 percent, with only 30 percent in the south. This too will end with the end of 2001. I therefore ask you to establish equal treatment for the south, east and west regions until then. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to some of the important construction projects of the south Styrian border region. In your reply to a parliamentary question, Mr Federal Minister, you have given an opinion on necessary buildings in the period from 1999 to 2009. I would like to say that these are areas which last a very long time, and I would like to highlight a few parts of these areas which I would like to suggest to you: This concerns the extension of the Bundesstraße 74 to the west, which is the famous Sulmtal Bundesstraße. But also Wildon's driveway is a concern that burns people under the nails. Ehrenhausen is also a planned project, but has not yet been approved. These projects play a major role in our south-east, south-west and complete Styrian South region of Austria. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister of State, to examine these important projects again and to do more quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7353	The next speaker is Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7374	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Transport policy can certainly be seen from different positions, but what should always be at the heart of the considerations is the preservation of people's interests and the protection of the environment. However, this government unfortunately proves to us that neither the interests of the people nor the preservation of the environment are in the foreground. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me make this clear to a few examples: A very negative message for all of us was the cuts in public transport. What do they mean in the end? – Ladies and gentlemen! I understand very well that there are differences of opinion between those who come from agglomerations and those who come from remote regions. The fact is, however, that people in the remote regions – I call my constituency and my district as an example – suffer most of the time when public transport means are reduced, because this ultimately requires lines to be adjusted. This, ladies and gentlemen of the government, especially Mr Federal Minister, is a blow against the Inner Mountain region, and this is a blow against the mobility of people. They are moving with the reduction of public transport resources: Setting up essential lines is coming upon us. A reduction in the timetable to just more so-called peak times is due to us. In this House there is a great deal of debate about justice and the need for flexibility and mobility. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What opportunities do we give a mother, two or more children, to make a doctor’s visit when setting lines? - Almost none. She has no chance of mobility. I therefore believe that it is not acceptable to reduce all thoughts and considerations regarding passenger transport to business results. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another example: We like to sell soft tourism so insanely. We like to sell so crazyly intact environment. How does this fit in with the fact that in the most foreign-intensive region of Austria, with most numbers of nights, in the Pinzgau, Zell district on the lake, we are threatened with the termination of the Krimmler Bahn? – The above-mentioned reports we have heard were: These exits are no longer to be covered, so we stop the track! I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What will be the result of the stopover of the Krimmler Railway? – The result will be an even higher individual traffic, the result will be that we will force the guests to visit the respective beautiful, interesting places and regions – think of the Crimean waterfalls. The result will be: We force people to produce more noise, more exhaust gases. At the same time, however, we sell intact environment, which cannot actually be given by the policy of this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When we discuss the transport policy of the future – there have been previous speakers who have dealt with the past – then we have to think about it. We must not just put profit maximisation in the foreground. If it says, Mr Federal Minister, that you have to save, then I say there will be potential savings, but where you save, that's politics. And if you save in the field of transport policy, then save in the wrong place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a very essential point for the future, which has to be a very essential point. I know very well that we have given the assignment to the railway to also be profit-oriented. I know it's necessary to make savings on the track as well. But one thing I would like to say at this point: I don't know how you did, but when I heard – I hope to quote half right – that Mr. Federal Minister Schmid said he was the railway in the government, I, quite frankly, got a goose skin. I also tell you why I have received them: because all the measures that have been suggested to us can only have a logical consequence, namely dramatic savings in the railway, as we heard, massive thinning of the timetable, A-, B- and C-lines... – Minister of State! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Where?]] You told me, it's not mine. In me, you will at most have a bitter opponent. That's your policy, Minister of Transport! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from that, we can't easily have detailed discussions with you anyway, because the answers you make are not even worth the paper on which they stand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next and final point I would like to make is: I am not a railway driver, and I am opposed to playing the road against the railway or any other mode of transport. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A tramwayer!]] Those who want to do transport policy with the future must, however, in all cases promote those modes of transport that are human and environmentally friendly, and this is primarily the railway. The transport policy you are doing has little future because it is directed against the people and against the railways.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7479	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7501	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, the new Federal Ministry Act was very vehemently criticized by the opposition, but today's debate shows just how important and meaningful it has been to sum up the two areas of rail and road in one ministry. In general, however, transport policy must be said: On no other issue, policy failure became as obvious as in the field of transport. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Despite frequent lip recognition for the promotion of public transport, for the transfer of traffic from road to rail, the burden on people and nature is increasing. You probably know the headline of the last week in which it was called: "Auto-noise makes you sick." A study by the VCÖ, the "Verkehrsclub Österreich", has shown that 1.7 million Austrians feel harassed by the traffic noise. According to this study, 78 percent of people feel that traffic noise is disturbing. It is interesting to note that in the area of Total energy consumption has doubled over the last 30 years. But it is also interesting – in order to address the climate problem – that CO2 emissions in other areas have been stabilised or reduced in recent years. Therefore, most of the climate problem, the CO2 problem, is directly due to passenger and truck transport. The opening quotes from this study show how important it is that there is a forward-looking transport policy, because hardly anyone is really thinking about what costs can be incurred in this context: Follow-up costs in the field of health and the environment. I know, of course, that the transport problem is not an internal-Austrian problem, that it has largely not arisen in Austria alone, but that it is a result of a really wrong EU transport policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Yes, one has to say, not only a false EU transport policy, but also a false EU transport philosophy. I mean that philosophy based on the basic principles of the EU, such as the basic principle of freedom of movement for goods. So far no one seems to have found the courage to say that one has to think about this philosophy once, as long as there is no cost truth in this area. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Tell us this philosophy, please!]] – I mean the four fundamental freedoms, such as the freedom of movement of goods. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are they just this philosophy?]] No, I'm just saying that this basic philosophy is to be questioned, because it has so far led to the wrong direction in the field of transport development, because there is no cost-truth. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Here I am your opinion!]] I therefore believe that it is particularly important not only to discuss transport problems internally, but also to recognize the need to seek the solution in the field of European policy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Right!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of SPÖ) There you have misnegotiated! I'm just saying, transit traffic! You sold us!]] Austria must therefore become active in the area of the EU, because no other country in Europe, dear Karl, is as affected by transit traffic as Austria. That is why we Austrians in particular are predestined to become active in the EU and to ensure that there is a reasonable transport policy. Of course, it must be said that, for example, a Portuguese member of the European Union will probably be quite no matter what traffic problems there are in the central area of Europe. Austria must therefore become active in the EU. The introduction of a truck toll alone, I say quite openly, will be a burden on our freighters, but certainly not solve the problem! I therefore propose that a parliamentary survey be organised as soon as possible, to which – and this is very important – also the members of the European Union of Austria are invited. Ladies and gentlemen! We are investing, we must also say, in public transport still less than in other areas of transport, such as road transport, air transport and so on. According to the figures I have here, in 1999 we invested 30.3 billion in public transport and 34.3 billion in other areas. This brings me to the area of secondary railways, which has been mentioned very often today. Last week, ÖBB General Director Draxler made a really undifferentiated move and explained that he wanted to stop 30 secondary tracks. Obviously, it is the way the Minister has said: that it always repeats when a new minister comes. But I really have to speak with Vehemenz especially against the closure plans of the ÖBB General Director as regards the Mariazeller Railway in the Pielachtal in Lower Austria! The Mariazeller train is not only a secondary railway – I really invite everyone who has not had the pleasure yet, once, to take this line – but also has enormous cultural significance and, above all, enormous tourist significance in addition to its function as public transport. The Mariazeller train is really part of the identity of the pielachale and the pre-alps region to the Ötscherland and the pilgrimage site Mariazell. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Anyone who closes the Mariazeller train destroys an Austrian cultural property that is well-known beyond the national borders and has only come through a truly unprofessional management in this highly deficient area! If such a facility is financially starved for more than 50 years, it cannot really be competitive anymore. The Mariazeller railway was the first electrified mountain railway in Europe and is well known in its historical significance far beyond all borders. So please: Hands away from the Mariazeller train! I propose to convene as soon as possible a crisis meeting of the Minister of Transport with the representatives of the State of Lower Austria and the Styria – because the Styria is also affected – and the affected municipalities of the region to find an operator for this railway as soon as possible. I am convinced that, if the public authorities are willing to provide appropriate funding, this line can be managed without a deficit and that, especially if one is prepared to invest only a fraction of the current finish, this line can continue. Mr. Federal Minister! The Mariazeller train really means a lot to people. After the relevant newspaper reports from last week, many people came to me and said: If you really do that, we'll put ourselves on the tracks! – I think it really shouldn’t come that far! I am therefore glad, Minister Schmid, that you have assured yourself that the closure of the railways will be done in such a way as not to cause any damage, and that you will be particularly committed to the maintenance of the Mariazeller railway. I repeat: Hands away from the Mariazeller train! She's a cultural property you shouldn't destroy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7618	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7640	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The former Federal Government has announced itself in an extensive expansion package to modernise the Austrian rail network, taking particular account of the main transport routes, in particular the West Railway and the South Railway. To this end, for this extension, an extensive expansion programme has been decided and funding under the Rail Infrastructure Act has also been secured. Ladies and gentlemen! Railways need to be expanded to include, on the one hand, the increasing traffic of goods per year and, on the other hand, to compete with road transport in terms of performance and speed. We know that our road network, as well as our rail network, is at its doorsteps. Studies and scientific studies by international experts confirm this. It could be thought that the new Federal Government should also commit itself to this rail expansion programme. However, the fact that this is not the case shows current measures by the Minister of Transport, who over the past few years has either gone far away from or behind a Styrian mountain, or is now practicing as a minister in the field of refusal of reality. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Above not, behind it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: No insult to the Steirers! You can insult me, but not the bulls!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The construction of the Lainzer Tunnel, the construction of the St. Pölten freight train and the modernisation and expansion of the St. Pöltner Central Railway Station were and are part of the German Federal Government's upright railway expansion package. Contracts have been concluded for the purpose of implementation, plans have been advanced, basic replacements have been negotiated and many orders have now been awarded to the economy of more than one billion schillings. Good and nice, dear ladies and gentlemen! However, the Minister now has it that everything should be different. He, the Minister, does not take care of any contracts concluded, no legal instruments for the redundancies, no contracts awarded, no economic failures or any loss of jobs. The Minister spoke and believed that this was law. Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Minister! I'm sure he's not. It is not you who are on the law and the validity of contracts, but still the legislator, the Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And it will be up to Parliament and the interested parties to examine the extent to which their behaviour, Mr Minister, has violated laws and has been violated by legal contracts. It will be up to the judicial authorities to clarify any liability issues in the context of the decisions you have made, which, as I believe, could go until the start of an organ or official liability procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to examine whether the damage suffered may be claimed and how the substance of your measures constitutes civil law. Minister! I can spare myself once again to highlight your decisions on transport policy, because this has already been done by commentators in the daily newspapers and recognized professionals. Their judgment was annihilation and is quite in the catalogue of assessments carried out so far by this government. As St. Pölten's Member, however, I would like to refer to a specific decision, namely the return of the St. Pölten freight train. Due to its structural location in the heart of the capital, the St. Pöltener Hauptbahnhof is a traffic and therefore also a safety needle tube. Additional rail systems, i.e. transit track, are as little possible as the additional crossing of trains. It is therefore not possible to carry out a further tact compression either. It would then be necessary to take back the timetable offer in passenger transport. Without freight transit, Mr Minister, the West Railway is not experiencing an increase in reception capacity, because all trains from the west and west have to pass through St. Pölten. It's in front of a bottleneck, and such a bottleneck is St. Pölten to this day. Mr. Minister! The entire four-track extension of the Westbahn is carried without the freight train St. Pölten ad absurdum! If you as a minister cannot or do not want to understand this simple technical matter, you will have to explain it with your responsibility as a member of the government. But if you do not bring a steel rope through a needle tube – with the needle tube I mean the main station St. Pölten and the freight trains with the steel rope – then you have failed in your function as a trained technician. I appeal once again to you, Minister, to rethink your order to stop the freight transport of St. Pölten, in the sense of a forward-looking transport policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7702	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Director-General of one of the largest multinational companies in the world, Mr Brabek-Lemathe, says about Austria's economic location: "I won't start a research and technology centre in Austria, and I can't recommend that to my headquarters in Switzerland." Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you may think that he had made this statement in response to the sanctions of the EU-14. But no, ladies and gentlemen, you are mistaken! Mr. Brabek-Lemathe made this statement on the occasion of a future discussion, the Wolfgang Schüssel. ==References====External links==* Official website Mr Brabek-Lemathe also implicitly said that the government had clearly lacked reform in recent years and that 30-year-old SPÖ government responsibility had missed this power of reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's something he didn't say!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And who was Minister of Economic Affairs?- Oh, my God!]] – I come back to the reasoning he gave. The company, chaired by Mr Brabek-Lemathe, operates several hundred research and development centres around the world and employs over 10,000 people in research, but not one in Austria. This comment by Mr Brabek-Lemathe is also a reason for the weak statistical results that Austria has with regard to research and development. Austria has a research rate of 1.7 percent in the back field. Sweden has gained a lot and is now 4 percent research rate on GDP. Japan, Finland, Korea, USA and Switzerland account for almost 3 per cent of GDP research, and all other EU countries are between 2.0 and 2.5 per cent. The countries of Ireland, Italy and Spain are currently only behind us. – I also believe that this is the result of a 30-year SPÖ governance responsibility, which has clearly lacked reform power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And what about the ÖVP?]] Fortunately, however, we all agree that research and development and investment in these areas will provide an advantage for the economy and thus secure jobs. That is why I am glad that the new government programme has established a significant increase in the research rate, namely in stages to 2.5% of the gross domestic product. It is also a long-standing desire for the economy to coordinate the various scientific funds, such as the Research Fund, the Innovation and Technology Fund and the Scientific Research Fund, in order to improve the use of the funding in the research budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition, the Council should ensure coordination of research and technology development and the assessment of funding. I believe that there is also a bit of a role to play in the fact that the individual funds are still located in different ministries. I think it is a unique opportunity to sum up these funding funds, because this really improves coordination. Mr Brabek-Lemathe has also justified his statement. He explained why he cannot recommend a research location to his company in Austria. He said Austria lacks reform. He said Austria lacks innovation and technology kindness, and Austria lacks properly trained academics, who not only want to go to the state service, but are also willing to take on risk and responsibility in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] I believe and say once again that it is important to take precautions for the future of our country, not to let a lack of perspective take place, and not to have a lack of political responsibility for the future. I also believe that, of course, it is a consequence of budgetary policy, a budget policy that has been missed in many areas, that we have not been able to take important steps in the future in time. With 1,700 billion schilling debts you can look badly into the future! This is like a millstone at the foot, which naturally prevents you from taking rapid steps into the future. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Grossruck and Mr Schwemlein.]] We need to create budgetary scope and scope for action in order to make the necessary reforms and create the right conditions for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Edler, Mr Schwemlein and Mr Großruck.]] In questions that concern our future – and this, of course, goes far beyond research and technology; of course, this also concerns the pension issue and also the question of the social system – which also concerns the economy, innovations and new technologies, which are sensitive, contain risks and represent uncertainty – no government in the world knows in advance what genetic technology will actually bring us – I do not want any policy that can be driven by scandals and panic, as we have experienced in the past. I remember, for example, the aerosol discussion, the blood chocolate and the genetic engineering. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to see a forward-looking and thoughtful policy on these complex future issues. I would like to see a policy which is objective and objective, which weighs the advantages and disadvantages of solutions for the future and also published, hears all experts, takes decisions early and early and also bears responsibility for the decisions. I believe that Wolfgang Schüssel, with his quiet, thoughtful manner and with his eagerness to go into the matter and really to get in touch with the matter, is better suited to solve such complex and difficult problems than those who have tried to solve them – or in the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7865	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e7887	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Pre-Resister, your beautiful words in God's ear, but I will prove to you in connection with the Lord Chancellor that you are wrong. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to deal exclusively with the transport budget, but the Federal Minister referred to the word "Landtagswahl" as "Landtagswahl", therefore a note for the Styria. Minister Schmid! I beg you, I ask you to be brief: Come back to the Styria! Become a top candidate of the FPÖ for the country elections! The voters are waiting for you, people need you, because hundreds of thousands, Minister Schmid, want you on 15 May. In the election cell on October 1st, you miss a deputies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Minister! Why do hundreds of thousands of people want to miss a memorial in the country elections in Styria? – What to have You actually made it, Minister Schmid? Did you force the extension of the South Railway, as you have decided as a Council of State in the State Government? Or, in connection with the Semmering Base Tunnel, you have organized a "first class funeral", namely, on 17th. March in Carinthia at the so-called traffic summit with Haider and Klasnic? Minister Schmid! Did you advance the construction of the coral tunnel? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Yes!]] Or you have the Koralm Tunnel at the press conference on the 11th. Mai ad acta? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: No!]] Minister Schmid! Have you accelerated the expansion of the rail in southern Graz? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Yes!]] Or you will have this project at the press conference on 11 November. Stop May? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: No!]] Minister Schmid! Have you acted with skillful diplomacy to support the country and your countrymen? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Yes!]] Or have you instead of negotiating Mr. Landesführer Pröll insults – in order to lubricate anything in the hair, or today, by calling Mr. Pröll with your "incomparable charm" a "frog"? Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You actually know what the Styrian ÖVP State Councillor Dipl.-Ing. Mr Paierl said last Friday on Styrian radio, what the ÖVP Council on Transport has said about Minister Schmid's transport policy? – Landesrat Paierl im O-Ton – I quote –: "Fullly unacceptable! It can only be a serious error! That's crazy!" - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Do you know what Minister Schmid replied on Saturday on the radio? – "Only a full idiot can accept this." [[Calls.]] – I quote Mr Schmid: "Only a full idiot can accept this." [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The ÖVP Council of State says to the FPÖ Minister "crazy", the FPÖ Minister to the ÖVP National Council "vollidiot". – This is the transport policy of the blue-black government! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – perhaps the Christian trade unionists among you are interested; Mr. Klubobmann Khol is always co-chaining with the fact that he is a practicing Christian trade unionist – do you know how Mr. Schmid apostrophed the ÖAAB tips for the AK election on the weekend? – I quote Schmid: "Hornochse." Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Mr Klubobmann Khol will certainly address this, because he has it with the hoofs anyway. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Now you stop!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Do you know what the chief said?]] [[Abg. Aumayr: "Missy suitcases!"]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the Semmering Base Tunnel – a small trip from Lower Austria to Styria. To Lower Austria: What does constitutional expert Heinz Mayer say? – I quote: "The Semmering Base Tunnel is dead when Lower Austria is always ready to make illegal decisions." – I repeat: when Lower Austria is ready to make illegal decisions. In the direction of the head of state Pröll, this constitutional expert Heinz Mayer – I quote – complains: "There are politicians who bend the rule of law for years, and land days that can be used as agents of fulfillment." – End of quote. Ladies and gentlemen! Lower Austria bends and abuses the rule of law! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Steiermark: I think you have lost respect for the people and respect for the perception of the senses. Here it is called "With the power of the Styria, enforced, green light for the tunnel." [[The speaker holds a poster in the height; it shows a photo of Mrs. Landeshauptmann Klasnic]] – Head of State Waltraud Klasnic has enforced the Semmering Base Tunnel, ladies and gentlemen. ==References====External links== March writes: "Poor embarrassingness." Everyone knew in June – really everyone, ladies and gentlemen of the Styrian ÖVP! -, everyone knew what was meant. But Mrs. Landeshauptmann Klasnic wanted to steal himself after the exit of the Semmering base tunnel. Mrs. Klasnic wanted to steal. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm coming to speak to the Federal Chancellor. He's ÖVP-Obmann, like I suppose. Does it interest the Federal Chancellor whether Mr Pröll abuses the rule of law? Is it interested in him whether a head of state is insulting Klasnic's perceptions of the population? Is the Federal Chancellor Mr. Schmid, who calls a party colleague, Mr. Landesrat Paierl, a "vollidiot" and an ÖAAB peakman a "hornochsen"? - No, I don't. This Federal Chancellor, in whose drawer, ladies and gentlemen, stows his own decision for the Semmering Base Tunnel, is silent. All of this seems to me to be none of this. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Minister Schmid. You, Minister Schmid, are a congenial partner of Schüssel, Pröll and Klasnic. Your mess of transport policy, your capitulation in front of reason, your inconvenient expression – the SPÖ Group strongly rejects this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The blue-black government's transport budget is rejected for transport policy, environmental and economic reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8091	The Federal Minister is next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8112	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I strongly disagree with the fact that a Member of this House claimed that I had the Styrian councillor Dipl.-Ing. Paierl called a "vollidiot"! I firmly refrain from it! This is an assumption I reject! And I take the same decision that I called an ÖAAB peak function a "hornochsen" – or as you said –. Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your conclusions, which you draw from compound statements on my part, stem from your thinking, but not mine. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I can take advantage of this opportunity and, in summary, say a few sentences. If you listen to the demands here and ask, for example, colleague Dietachmayr for a repeated time: What did you do about it, what are you doing about it? – I think, 14 times if I have counted correctly – then you really have to ask yourself what you really did about it and what the Minister of Transport, who is now in office for three months, is responsible for. [[Abg. Edler: For the future!]] We are very likely to be responsible for the future. I'll get you together one second. If I was given an inheritance that looks like our children in the future can only pay more for the debts of the past, that our children have nothing more to do than give away the crap that was accumulated here than to finance the burdens of the predecessors, and even have no more means of design, if that is the situation I have taken over – and unfortunately it is – then I would be very reluctant in your place with accusations, with suspicions, with statements of what is done here from our side to false politics. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have to fight with debt of 317 billion schilling from the past. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Grief: If you don't deal with the problems, then step back!]] If you set up a list of claims here, starting with the solution of the transit contract that has been inherited, over a toll that has been inherited, up to performances that sound, we need a Brenner base tunnel, we need the extension to Kufstein, we need the GZU, we need the middle part of the Lainzer tunnel – no one has answered the question here why the expansion of Vienna-St. Pölten is not included in any programme, no one has answered me, the only relevant question is whether the most important part is being preferred or not, please note this too! – if there are demands here such as North motorway, Marchfeld Canal, Danube Elbe Channel and much more, I will tell you one thing: [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] I agree on many points with you that much could be improved here, much could be done, but did you really escape that 317 billion schilling on a credit frame, in actual debt, limit the scope for action? Did you get rid of that? I am not ready – I am now writing this to everyone in the main book, even if I do not make myself popular with it – to place myself here and to make promises of which I know that they are not eligible in the budget, of which I know they cannot pay our children and children. The Austrian infrastructure is not so bad that we have to put our next generations into debt! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8193	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8217	Mr President. Federal Minister! Minister Schmid has just objected to the fact that a Member of Parliament says here that he would have insulted a Chairman of the FCG in Styria as "hornochsen". I quote from today's "New Newspaper": "The president of Franz Gosch said yesterday in a broadcast: If through the sensitization of the communities it has succeeded in saving the post offices, he likes to be insulted as hornochsen. (Infrastructural Minister Michael Schmid used this word at a press conference.)"
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8255	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8276	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thank Mrs Silhavy for quoting from the party newspaper of the SPÖ in Styria. This already shows the "quality" of the correctness of such a matter. I'll tell you the way it is. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] What you have done here, Mrs Silhavy, was not an actual correction, but an abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as you know. You can't have opinions... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Mr Edlinger, we can meet again in some court. That's where you lose again, but that doesn't matter. As a non-ÖBB specialist, I have listened very carefully to the debate and have heard colleagues Schwemlein and also colleagues herbals repeatedly and time and again the words "winning", "future" and "consumer" in my mouth. In itself, it would have to turn your stomach around if you took these three words into your mouth in connection with the ÖBB, but also with regard to your own party. Winning: in further distance – 351 million bad on your side. The future of the ÖBB, where you have reduced 12 000 jobs in recent years and left a disaster, is also a little risky. And we don't need to talk about the "consumer" with a 17-billion schilling argument left behind and countless unemployed. It is better to remove these three words from the SPÖ lexicon: Profit, future and "consumer". Faith You know, it'd probably be better! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to turn to a little of the future, namely the research budget, because in the past we have always had to deal with a lot of criticism in connection with this part of the budget. I am really disappointed about how unscientific scientists are also addressing this issue, especially budgetary policy. I have come to the conclusion that almost all the statements that speak of reducing research resources are ultimately party-politically motivated. However, I am concerned that bodies such as the Federal Conference of Professors of the University may find themselves in such a resolution. Mr Minister, I do not know whether you know this recent resolution, in which criticism towards research ministers and research budgeting is released. I read them in full quote: "Austria's research rate will continue" – in the sense of the budgetary policy being carried out – is "to remain below the average of the European Union. This is mainly due to the reductions in research resources in the 2000 budget. Without referring in detail to the sufficiently well-known reductions in capital resources for universities and the insufficient budgeting of the funds for the FFF and FWF research funds, we are also faced with projects which, in our opinion, will not make effective improvements in the medium term." I'm really disappointed that's the whole criticism. It is not said what is being criticized, and what is being criticized is still wrong. Obviously, one has not even learned the one time at high schools. It is really terrifying for me when an institution that makes sense in itself as a representative of the professors is operating with false figures and finally gets involved in a party-political discussion. It is unfair that the funds of the FWF have been reduced – one has only been unable to read the budget. Originally, Mr Greenewald also had this criticism, but I think he has not spoken it out today because it is simply incorrect. In the last budget year, 600 million schillings have been made available, and this year 610 billion schillings are in the ordinary budget. [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr. Graf, millions!]] The Oesterreichische-Nationalbank's share of this is a significant increase in the budget's budget, and this must also be noted as a fact. Again and again to say that the reductions in research resources in the 2000 budget are to be reversed, without any basis. If we want the values of the old budget, the 1999 budget, again, we really need to cut down, because we have planned more budgetary resources in this area for the year 2000. Similarly, the Minister for Infrastructure and Research, the Minister for Infrastructure and Research, has for the first time succeeded in finding a covering for the FFF in the ordinary budget of 530 million schilling. I don't think you should be saved with praise from the opposition in this area. If, in a situation where general savings are announced, a minister of research makes more money available if he can negotiate and make proper budgeting with the Minister of Finance available and we can decide on such a budget, then this is a success for research and for the future of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am also not satisfied with the demand of BUKO in this context – and with this the entire paper is enormously relativizing: "We therefore call for finally to start with the budgetary structural measures in order to achieve at least the average research rate of 1.8% in Europe." Mr Grünewald and all those who have something to do with research are 1.8 per cent simply too little, and no one in this House wants to do so. This must not be demanded by the researcher at the university. With this he goes back behind a line that we have already left behind. I believe that the future of research will be assured if the Party policy is finally out of research, and we will implement it with the newly created Research and Technology Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8351	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8372	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since my previous speaker thinks we should not take the word "future" into the mouth: Perhaps you should stop saying "debts" because the "simple party member" Haider called 300 million Schilling FPÖ debts "spatches" in 1998. – This is written only in your parent book. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker keeps a copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] Read it, Mr. Gaugg! It is about budget chapter X today, and I believe that it is important to address, in addition to transport policy, innovation policy, research policy. There will be no one who does not say an absolute yes to the goals of the Federal Government to define 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product for research and development as a goal to use a billion technology for schools, to drive innovation, to create new professions and to focus on research and development. There won't be anyone who says they're wrong targets. The message I hear very well, only when I look at the facts, ladies and gentlemen, I lack faith. There are some members of the Industrial Committee here, and they will certainly agree that in the last government period we have repeatedly had the problem of reaching a united opinion here between the Ministry of Economic Affairs, ÖVP, and the Ministry of Science, SPÖ. I believe that the wish of coordination has come to the fore here. Today, four ministers would have to sit here: Not only the Minister for Innovation, but also the Minister for Education, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour and the Minister for Agriculture should sit here when it comes to coordination. So where there is an increased coordination here, you can see very clearly from the list: It is not available, and it will not be attainable by the Research Council alone. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the objective of providing 2.5 percent of GDP by 2005, 2 percent of GDP by 2002, I ask you: Where do the 5.6 billion Schillings required for this come from, Mr. Federal Minister? I do not find them in a budget approach, nor do I find them in your statement. Where did the technology billions come from for the schools? You yourself, Minister of State, have sent a reply in response to a question: The target of 2 per cent cannot be met from the budget alone. The donation of the Research Fund alone is not sufficient, of course, to achieve this objective. Even commitments for an experimentarium in Vienna, a museum to be created in conjunction with technical schools, are withdrawn, although the money in an account was already provided for it. I do not believe that this is a way to the future, but I believe that there is really a huge difference between being and being, ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Pecher, who is not in the Chamber now, is quoted, I would have liked to quote from her the literal quote of this man, who was supposed to have said at an ÖVP Future Congress, 30 years of socialism. He has rightly criticized the too little innovativeness of the economy. If there is too little innovation to complain about here: Where is the representative of the economy when, for example, it comes to raising the private sector's research funding accordingly? I ask the question: Where is the share of the economy? The same applies to policy: How do we cope with privatisation? Do we only pay back the debt with the proceeds, or do we go the Bavarian way to finance innovation in reality with privatisation proceeds? It is not clear that the innovation policy of this new federal government is the essential economic factor that innovation policy actually represents, in such a way that it achieves first social acceptance and, secondly, that the impact assessment on people and jobs is addressed accordingly as an equivalent objective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also considered to be certain that industry, service and, above all, small and medium-sized enterprises can generate motivation and, above all, innovation with a supporting policy by the government. But if a owner's representative calls his companies "resist of the old state economy" – literally quote – which must be converted into modern companies, then I note: These people who say that – it wasn't one, it was the government – actually have the time to sleep. This fits with the ÖVP, which has been acting like it had never been there for 100 days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! "Rest of the old state economy": Austrian airline Austrian Airlines, "Rest of the old state economy": VA Stahl, "Rest of the old state economy": Böhler-Uddeholm, "Rest of the old state economy": OMV, "Rest of the old state economy": Austria tobacco. These are the "rests of the old state economy". If someone as a owner is dealing with his property in this way, then – I am convinced of this – he is actually on the wrong path. Professor Aeginger said very correctly in the hearing about the ÖIAG: Privatisation for debt repayment is not an optimal goal. It would be better to use part of the privatisation revenue for research and development. For me, innovation means longer term development. That's certainly not enough for the keyword "Rerule Austria".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8434	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8455	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Debates of the European Parliament I believe that he has stated what is to be implemented in terms of content and what is to be done. And I too, as a member of a government party, expect that these goals will also be achieved, whether it is the technology billion, whether it is research. How did the situation come about? Why are we in the situation of having too little money? – It has always been the accusation that Minister One and Minister Farnleitner could not meet, because one is responsible for the road, the other is responsible for the road. Now one harmonises these areas and puts them together, and then comes again the accusations that it would now be retorted, and more like that. – That is also necessary. If we did not owe, these measures would not be necessary. And now, with the exception of my colleague, all Members are going down here and all that is now being done is bad. I wonder what has actually been contributed to positive things in recent years. Was it the extension of the West Railway? Was it the South Railway? Was it the extension of the second Tauerntunnel tube? Was it the Packer motorway in a terrible state? For years, for decades, there would have been the possibility of taking action here, but it was not used. Why? [[Abg. Edlinger: Schmid said the infrastructure is okay!]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: No, but she's not that bad!]] It was always all right. [[Abg. Edlinger: He said you don't have to do anything, the infrastructure is not bad!]] No, Mr. Minister out of service, there's still a lot to do! There is much to do, especially in an area which seems particularly sensitive, namely the ÖBB. The ÖBB was a hoard for employees who have not been accommodated in the private sector. If they didn't get anything there, they went to the ÖBB. [[Abg. Edler: Go, stop!]] Mr Edler knows how this happened. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edler.]] Why are we faced with the situation of having to find out again and again at the ÖBB... [[Abg. Edler: But you want the votes of the railways!]] – They will also choose us – unlike you! [[Abg. Edler: Then why do you go to the train stations? That's a scandal, this statement!]] Dear Edler, I'll tell you now why we're in this dilemma when you listen a minute. You also have to be able to listen. There are a total of nine employees of the ÖBB who do not work for a single minute in the interests of the company, all of whom are trade union officials, all sitting all day in the trade union offices – but the railways have to pay it. [[Abg. Edler: You said that three times before!]] The railways have endured this until 1998, then they have said: There's no way that exactly those best-carriers who are the most expensive employees, but don't work for the company for a minute! This is system-immanent. Nine employees, beautifully divided in the federal states, also cost 10 million schilling annually over their thumbs, which the railways have to impose. And that's the purpose. I could also mention the names, but they are all known to Mr Edler. These nine employees are an example of how things don't work. They don't care about the ÖBB! Their best careers, their management assistant careers and their own "Gerstl" are important to them. What did one do in 1998 after it became too colorful for the railways and they said, so it can't go, it's saving us, and these gentlemen are making the best careers? – At that time they were taken out of the famous transport book, so that it was no longer comprehensible how much these rulers cash. – They have a number of secondary jobs, of course, but the job at the ÖBB is only part of it. Mr Vergestnitsch also meant that privatisation could not be limited to repaying debt exclusively with the proceeds. But now I'm wondering if all of this is such a parade business as they've been listed by name: Why did they then collect some 80 billion schilling debts, so that only interest service costs billions of schilling? I am also of the opinion that you can use the money more innovatively, but first you have to pay the old debt, and then you can also make money available for innovation, then you can also find private sponsors and investors who are willing to participate. However, this is not the case with highly indebted companies that have the party book as a recording criterion. To this day, the companies share in red and black, from the board of directors to the cloister! In all areas, red and black are still valid, beautifully divided into the federal states. That is the main problem of the nationalists! Each time before elections, the SPÖ and the ÖGB in particular step on the plan and say that everything is bad now, everything is broken, 120,000 jobs are in danger, only because the word "privatisation" is taken into account. And with that I'm back at the "consumer" because that's such an example as it shouldn't be. If I look at how the "consumer" went down and goes down inside the SPÖ, then I have to say that we don't want to join. I would prefer to have an infrastructure minister who sets key priorities and implements some kind of project in time, because the money is missing, as one who promises everything at the same time. [[Abg. Edlinger: He doesn't say anything!]] You also promised us the exact landing of the budget. In fact, it was just right next door. That's something we don't want to do. What we want is to keep those promises that we make, too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8595	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8632	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker started his speech with the quality of the speech. Mr Gaugg! You turn in front of your own door! What you've delivered there wasn't even a second-class acting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gaugg has again shown his true face here today. The yellow trade unionist Gaugg claims: If you don't have a place anywhere else, go to the ÖBB. – This is your type of employee representation?- Oh, my God! Thank you, Mr Gaugg! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing, Mr Gaugg: Innovation is called the future. Innovation means looking to the future, i.e. new development. Mr Gaugg, what you have offered here, that was your clear look into a past that only you have seen, no one else. Otherwise, this Republic of Austria would not be such a success story, Mr Gaugg! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: A million people at the poverty line! This is your "success"! You've done the Republic!]] But I do not want to deal with an employee representative of your category. [[Abg. Swimmlein: With an unsuccessful employee representative!]] – Thank you, Mr Schwemmlein, with an unsuccessful employee representative. [[Abg. Gaugg: Please have made the Republic!]] I really want to take a little more care of innovation in Austria, technology policy. [[Abg. Fischl: Contradictor!]] Mr Fischl! You were partly present in the Industrial Committee, and you have partly followed up the discussions, even discussed them in a trace way, but you did not understand anything! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: He's funny down there!]] What is happening in the field of research and development, Mr Fischl? Mr President Vergestnich has shown the "rests of the state industry". You know what's going on there? Research and development, to a very high extent, to the highest extent in Austria at all. Do you know what you care for and what you will bear the responsibility for in the future? – For the sale of these research and development activities in the companies, in the high technology companies! [[Abg. Gaugg: You can't even take a break in a cellar theatre!]] You may be able to accommodate a lot of things at the Freunderlpartie to accommodate Prinzhorn – the father of the foundation and other friend. But otherwise Prince Horn proposes to privatize according to the Argentine pattern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] I would also like to say, Mr Fischl, that perhaps less fortunate, but with a little more knowledge of football than of technology policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more, ladies and gentlemen. With the decision of the ÖIAG Act, the Headquarters function in Austria was put at risk by giving up the core shareholdership and thus also research and development. And with the present budget and budget figures, research and development will not be particularly stimulated. But I have another contribution to a previous speaker's debate. Mrs Pecher has pleaded for the future of our country. I'm totally with her. Precautions for the future of our country, however, also mean high-quality training of our youth, also means high-quality apprenticeship training for our youth. You, Federal Minister – if you could perhaps give me a few seconds of your valued attention – are in a position to be responsible for this high-quality training, which will hardly be possible in the future. How different it would be that the Obersteiermark, in the Knittelfeld district, will be able to find together an initiative of apprentices and students and there with the call "That's all ours! The high-quality teaching workshop of the ÖBB in Knittelfeld" goes on the road? One way to create qualities for the future is to offer innovation opportunities for young people by being well-trained by high-quality professionals at work is reduced by you. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Hey! Hey! Hey!]] It is feared, Minister of State, that this will have to close the workshop. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: Complete nonsense!]] This has once again proved that this federal government promises a lot, but everything breaks. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, I can ask you to do one thing. You may have a loose lip with others and on other occasions, but I would ask you very politely, here in the House in connection with legislation, with the laws which have been produced here and decided not to speak of "mistake" which you would have to remove, because, Mr Federal Minister, neither the colleagues of your group nor the colleagues of the other political groups have deserved it here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8801	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8825	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Burket of the Liberals mentioned the "Life Ball" about an hour ago in the current transport debate and said that he had cost 135 million schillings. I am actually correcting that the "Life Ball" from public funds, namely those of the city of Vienna, has received 2 million schilling this year for the public presentation of the show at the Town Hall Square, which was accessible to 40,000 people. I leave the liberal to the evaluation of the "naked popsherls", Mrs. Burket.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8855	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8877	Mr President. High house! I already see a new rumor coming to the Styria, namely that something will be deleted. This seems to be the current fashion discipline. I also note in this context, honourable Member, that there has been improvements in the field of research through my work – and that my previous speakers have already said – that the department has more resources to do so. If you want to know exactly, I'll tell you what I said: "I am not a horny horn that I lock a post office in the Styria!" – In such things, one can only put something negative on my mind in an evil way. I think I made this clear. You also mentioned my statement that we had to clear "mis" out of here. – That's just so much: It is also in the run-up to the action that it is claimed that my resort, i.e. from me, 380 000 minimum pensioners – I think, have even been distributed in this respect – are to be deprived of support for the phone fees. This too is a really evil understatement of the special class. I repeat: an evil submission of the special class! I have already taken legal measures and announced ahead of time that those affected by them – by the way, 301 000 and not 380 000 – should also benefit the mobile phone in addition to the fixed network and not worsen it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So listen. Please be careful to insure the people! That is what I think is already a farce of political debate. Someone who has had personal dealings with really poor people at risk of existence – and I have had to deal with hundreds and thousands in the framework of housing promotion in Styria – does not play with the fear of the poorest! Remember what you're doing here! They play with the fear of the poorest by announcing to them that something will be taken away from them – and that against better knowledge, because the situation should have improved! I have here a letter from Telekom – and that now to the "mist clear" – which says: "Dear Mr. Federal Minister! ==References====External links== March 2000, which was personally handed over to you by Director-General Kassler – copy supplement 1 – we allow us to present the bill for 1998 and 1999 for the public service provided by Telekom Austria." This is about the achievements we have just spoken about. The new Director-General will present to me the bill for 1998 and 1999. I can remind you again: I'm 4th. I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the excellent work you have done. And it goes on to say: "We ask you to order the error amounts of 244 118 493 S for 1998 and 300 689 985 S for 1999. As early as December 1999 and before... we have mentioned this." - Quote. That's what I meant. We obviously have to remove the "failures" – if I may express it intently – from our predecessors: 544 million schilling "old loads" – according to the motto: Pay it if you have money or not! - That's your policy. Maybe you should tell the people not to scare them and tell them that we want to take something away from them.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8937	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e8967	Mr Haigermoser, don't throw away your nerves! Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! The debate on technology and transport policy today is, of course, already under a very special light, considering that there has been a flying change of government partners. It is, in part, very funny to listen to how ÖVP members here of 13 years of political co-responsibility are sent to this country. I am thinking only of the one-time appearance of Mr Pecher today, who has acted as if the ÖVP were represented in Parliament for the first time at all. It has, as it were, given the audience a very clever, well-wise talk with quotations from literature. I would just like to know if Mrs Pecher and her own group also have the role to play as a technology company in Austria. I really want to know if it is spending more than 1.7 percent of its fast-food group on research and development. I'm pretty sure that won't be the case. I am also quite sure that Mrs. Pecher, together with her company, gives a very typical example of why the research rate in Austria is below average in international comparison. As we know, Austria has values below the European average based on raw material-oriented products and under-average research in the farms. Public research in Austria, on the other hand, is quite competitive with other European countries. It is very funny – and I am quite sorry for it – when Mr Schöggl, who, as a truly committed technology man and industrial politician in recent years, has repeatedly tried to pursue very hard, but very objective and very serious technology policy, stands here today and talks with clearly bad conscience about the current technology policy situation in the budget 2000. We know that exactly what you, Mr Schöggl, have always called for, has not occurred, but that the opposite is the case: The agendas of individual ministries have not been brought together, no, another division of competence has taken place. A terrible story! We know that the objective of raising the budget volumes in such a way that we really reach 2.5 percent of GDP is likely to be very difficult to achieve. Perhaps it would be possible if there were to be a consistent technology policy in the next few years. But we also know that in this year's year's technology billions are falling completely, we know that the announced "laptop billions", for every student a laptop, has become a "Lap-Flop-billion" that nothing can be seen anymore, and we also know that even in the small areas where one could put industrial structural improvement measures, the budget approaches have been reduced by some 80 percent. In my view, the reason for this is not even so much that Mr Schmid does not want it, but rather the cause, as I believe, of the fact that, in the context of the coalition negotiations, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has really been drawn to the table in this area. If Mr Grasser had not intervened again, Mr Schmid would now have had the problem of being politically responsible, but not being able to provide money for it in his place of business. I therefore believe that the representatives of the liberals in the coalition negotiations have seriously failed, and that is why we have this situation in which the FPÖ and Mr Schmid are located. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: The grass would also be a liberal! If so!]] - Yeah, he saved you anyway, he helped you. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Schmid: But this is also a liberal!]] - Yes, of course. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: Mr President! I would ask you not to interrupt the speaker!]] Nevertheless, my colleague Mr Schmid: I am afraid that Mr Prinzhorn's personal interests were covered with this, and with that the technology policy issue was dealt with for the FPÖ. But I believe that you still have a chance to take active action in the next few years. There are also opportunities for the Minister of Infrastructure to manage funds in the area of UMTS licences, and to dock where technology policy activities have really been successfully implemented in recent years. I am thinking, for example, of the technical universities, of the technology centres, of this scene that has developed in this area in Austria. However, I think that the countries are much more involved than before, because we know that only three federal states are involved in EU research projects. All other federal states are so-called non-research zones. I think that the regions and municipalities that want to participate here – for example, the Steyr region, which has always been very happy and has been successful – should have an opportunity to be financed and to be able to participate in these projects. Federal Minister! In the next few years you will have the opportunity to pursue a good technology policy for this country. Take advantage of this opportunity, we will You are very happy to support this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9053	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9075	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Three minutes to the end of the debate, in order to clearly outline an essential "gold pit" in this budget, so that the "genial budget-anians" – who are called ministers Grasser or Minister Schmid – may not later have the right sayings. I would like to say that in the transport and technology budget, in the infrastructure budget, there has been a little massive under-exploitation: the revenue that can be recovered from the auction of the ums frequency. They have budgeted 4.5 billion schilling for this, but in reality it will certainly amount to double-digit billions, and these double-digit billions are practically falling from heaven. Mr Minister, you can almost feel like "goldmarie" in this context, but these double-digit billions are really useful. That is why my plea: perhaps to double the technology billions as much as possible, and on the other hand to use these "Sterntalers" – under quotation marks – to really fix a democracy billion in Austria. Minister! I remember: You have set up the savings fund at the newspaper tariffs, the postal tariffs for the non-profit associations, social associations and so on, but now you get much, much more money than you have budgeted. They should now also make provision for the future to ensure that this money also benefits those in the social field, the volunteers, the NGOs. Convert these billions to those who really need it! You have said earlier that you also feel as a lawyer of the poorest and you do not want to be made at the expense of the poorest politics. – In the future, please act as a "richter" among the ministers for the use of these additional billions for technology and for NGOs and social associations! Finally, in connection with UMTS frequency: It is necessary to clarify the precautionary limits for GSM and other frequency ranges, so to speak, in the new media areas. There will soon be a congress in Salzburg; Salzburg is a pioneer in the field of precautionary limit. We urgently need a law to protect against non-ionizing radiation! That must be done. Therefore, my reference to the fact that among the licensors, among the providers there are very probably black sheep and white sheep: "tele.ring" in Graz does not take any Consideration of the neighbors, place transmitters ten meters in front of bedrooms. "tele.ring" in Salzburg, the same company, holds the precautionary limit of 0.1 milliwatts per square meter. Other companies such as "max", "one", also "mobilkom" adhere to the limit values in Salzburg, but enter other federal states, in other capitals such precautionary limits with feet. In this regard, an Austrian-wide, correct, health-oriented policy must finally take place. That's why my appeal is: Act here in the sense of the poorest and do something for the people!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9135	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9156	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser! You said the UMTS auction was a "gold pit" and the Minister could feel like "goldmarie". If you continue to lose bets against me, you're the "goldmarie" for me, that's what I want to tell you in this regard. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] You remember: In the debate on transport, you have made a bet with me, and the President has taken it, that is, it applies. They strongly disputed that the then clubwoman, Dr. Petrovic, would have demanded about 30 to 35 S as a prize for the liter of petrol. Unfortunately, you are wrong, Mrs. Colleague. I can get you out of the "Press" of 12th. Read to you March 1995: "In the budget question, Ms Petrovic decided on a rigid redistribution. Energy prices, for all forms of energy, petrol, heating oil, electricity, should be increased considerably year after year. A liter of fuel could cost 20 s in a few years." - So exactly what we claimed. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, look here!]] ==References== April 1995, one month later, Ms Petrovic proposed a 2 S petrol price increase as the first stage, and an increase of 7 percent annually. Until what end, she wanted to leave it open for the time being. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We can calculate that!]] In October 1995 she said: "At the beginning we demanded everything... Now, in our eco-tax application, a fuel price increase of 1.50 S is coming, and for this he is expected to rise in this order every year." Ladies and gentlemen! That's exactly what we claimed. At least today, if it had gone to Mrs Petrovic, we would have loosened a fuel price of 30 or 35 s per litre. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This doesn't matter mathematically!]] You can't distance yourself from that, Mrs. Colleague. Mrs Petrovic also said in the press hour that the Greens want to exercise government responsibility. She would also be personally ready for the post of a vice chancellor. – Ladies and gentlemen! I have to congratulate the Austrians for preventing this by their election decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9229	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Speciale, want the final word? – That is obviously not the case. We are therefore voting on the consultative group X of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 65 of the Federal estimates, together with the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 60 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled during the negotiation of the consultative group X of the Federal Finance Act be carried out immediately. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Comrades on the maintenance of the railways. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group V Chapter 30: Justice (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9300	We are now entering the debate on the V advisory group: Justice. The Special Rapporteur did not accept oral reporting. I call Mr Jarolim. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9327	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in view of the circumstances that have existed since yesterday, the debate on justice will be a little different from what we originally wanted to do – and I can now say this to my group. Federal Minister! In fact, I wanted to say from this point of view, in terms of words of thanks, words of thanks for having succeeded in preventing many of the demands made in the Government's draft on justice during the time of your previous activity. In fact, it is a performance that largely prevents what the government has done in this field as a programme. Not for nothing, right after the presentation of this "demandful" program – as you have called it – was the talk in the heart of Europe about the fact that it is a return to the old German revenge thinking. – This is said by university professor Frank Höpfel, who certainly stands far away from any accusation of partyity. The former judge of the ÖVP and great legal guardian of this political party Michael Graff says: The appeal to people's feelings of outrage and revenge – I quote – is intended to achieve something politically. – Ladies and gentlemen! A reaction that would not have required any further comments. Even the president of the prosecutors speaks of an advance of distrust towards the new political forces, even of a complete reversal of judicial policy. This ÖVP FPÖ justice package needs to be digested first. – This is what Matousek, the president of the prosecutors, says, to which you would otherwise like to appeal. Finally, there is another statement by Matousek: This means a step back to the time of the emergence of the criminal order 150 years ago and is apparently also an expression of distrust... and so on and so on. – Massive criticism: Step back to the Stone Age! Ladies and gentlemen! This judicial package, which you adopted at the time, is not actually a programme, but rather a series of partly self-evident, partly obscurities and, in part, simply unmistakable sentences, which do not make sense for one who is seriously dealing with judicial policy, the implementation of this package – and I wanted to say that in my speech today, and I also say so – from Mr Federal Minister for Justice Böhmdorfer to date. But he wasn't the only one: The President-in-Office of the Council has also seen the need to slow down in the face of this programme. Why? We have, before the preparation of this programme, the end of the last legislative period, adopted the so-called Diversion, a criminal law which has been referred to by all experts as one of the most crucial progress in the criminal justice policy of recent years; the result of four years of discussion with great participation of all professionals, a result that was tangible, which has also been recognised abroad and which we have also been able to present abroad. This law, which has been in force since 1. January 2000 is in force, you want to limit your government package again. And not experts who have dealt with matter, no, Mr. Khol has taken the floor here, in ignorance of the law, and has declared: This law must be used back, this law endangers our children in the area of sexual abuse! Ladies and gentlemen! Their argumentation has raised a shudder among all those who know about matter – an argument that makes it clear that not here in the matter itself should be argued, but quite simply emotions are to be awakened. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] You then wanted to abuse these emotions to demand something that no one understood, namely: the return of the division. The Federal President was aware of this fact, on the basis of his own knowledge, but also on the basis of information from those who have worked on it, and has asked you: Before you actually do this before you make the most of it, you need to call an Enquete Commission to discuss this topic again in the public, so that you can convince yourself – or have to convince yourself – that you cannot carry out what you intend, namely the return of the division. On the one hand, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and, on the other hand, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his success in rejecting this idea of ÖVP and FPÖ, in order to put it in the barriers and bring the discussion where it belongs, in an objective framework. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion, however, I must acknowledge that your attempt, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, to emotionalize justice policy and, in fact, to address a tradition that has dominated many, many years in this House, namely that the daily policy debate is not the first place, but only the second, third, or fourth, is certainly successful. Another point to be taken into account in this context, Mr Federal Minister, is the fact that you have also referred to Klubobmann Khol's statements: You have to talk about whether "life-long" must actually be "life-long", because there are, of course, reasons in individual cases to deal with it. You have also put this abusive discussion back into the barriers and said: It can't be that easy, there's no simple answers to complex topics – just like some of you want to precipitate it here – but it just needs a discussion. All this, Mr Federal Minister, would have sufficed for us to say that the judicial policy had gone a long way again, especially in view of what would have threatened us on the basis of this judicial programme, if it could at all be called a "programme". However, I now ask myself, Minister of Justice: What happened yesterday? What thoughts did you make when you held a press conference yesterday with Haider, one of the decision-makers of your party, and gave me personally an incomprehensible one? We have known Haider for a long time as someone who stands for a clear political attitude, but who constantly foggs this clear political attitude. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Very successful!]] But his intentions, like almost no other intentions of a politician, become apparent over time when he says, for example: "I will maintain a uniform appearance throughout the party. This is a leadership task that is still to be done." He also says – I used to quote it more often, but I think it is necessary to repeat it once again in order to make clear here the contexts that you are trying to hide over and over again –: "Those who scream and whistle back there will, if I have something to say, still need their air to work." – These are threats, these are repressions, which is ultimately an attempt to restrict freedom of expression. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And this person, like no other in favour of an authoritative style of leadership in this House, has ultimately also been responsible for having to accept marks on your polls on the occasion of a vote on the President of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That means "authoritarian"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That was my idea!]] Yes, your idea, Mr. Ofner. I don't know if it's your idea. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Ofner) That's where you can be "stolz" on it!]] Anyway, I felt it embarrassing, but it's up to you to think about it. Everyone can express their opinion on this. This person, who particularly impresses with this leadership style, now explains: We have to go even further. We must make mandates criminal if they do not give something politically wanted of them. Ladies and gentlemen! This happened last time at a time that was a very unpleasant one. If I look at the laws of the Empire from then on – I'm coming to speak to them then I'm actually aware of the same attitude that Haider made yesterday. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I am so grateful for your "sacred" contributions!]] That is exactly what has brought us into the difficult situation in Europe, in which we are in, and what has also led the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to impose a precedent on you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In any case, the Preamble has been broken. On this occasion you, Mr Federal Minister, have stated that you understand that this is a subject of debate. Federal Minister! They have become highly disqualified with this statement. I deeply regret that. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: They always fool everyone! You said you'd stay honest! You're not honest now!]] But this is not something that is happening in the House alone, but it is a subject on which other states measure us. I would therefore ask you, Minister, that you make a statement here and distance yourself from that in every form. I'll say something about it at 3 p.m. I hope that something can be brought forward here in the sense of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9479	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9500	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Carinthians obviously do not take this as tragic as my immediate previous speaker, otherwise it could not have happened that today, a few hours ago, a unanimous decision of the Carinthian state government has been taken, which has made in Carinthia, with the votes of the Social Democrats, that the ÖVP and the liberals in this House have made in vain. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Carinthia SPÖ is a bit more advanced!]] Official broadcast: "State government unanimously adopts action plan. Today, the Carinthian Government has unanimously adopted an action plan to abolish the sanctions of 14 EU Member States against Austria." And then on: The Carinthian Government supports the Federal Government's action plan – which you have closed down, ladies and gentlemen! – and expect negotiations and diplomatic activities to achieve the desired success. [[Oh-Rufe and congratulation with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: All together!]] So the Carinthians did not seem to have permanently excited about statements that were not even known from the media, but from any press services and which I would only have to hear about, in what context and how they really liked. But I do not intend at all to devote my precious 9 minutes to this topic. [[Call the SPÖ: What do you say about these statements?]] I want to deal with justice policy, and whoever doesn't want to talk about justice and wants to prevent me from doing so, he won't be lucky: I got the microphone, he didn't. Justice works well in Austria. This has been the case in recent decades, and she is also working under the new Minister Böhmdorfer. It is accepted by the citizens. This is not a matter of course, because throughout Europe, wherever we look, justice is, because it works badly, because it is considered to be corrupt, because it is too slow, much slower than in Austria, not accepted by the citizens at all. They are looking for other ways to get to their right or at least to cool their moths, to practice revenge or whatever. That is not the case in Austria. In Austria, the citizen of justice trusts. He goes to justice, although he personally does not like every result she brings to him, but he accepts it. This trust is important, it is one of the basic columns of the Republic. We are proud that there is this confidence, and everyone in the judicial system will continue to work on it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have become accustomed to being alarmed at the fact that some things are not going as fast as a predecessor of Minister Böhmdorfer, namely Minister Foregger, has always mentioned this: that something is happening within a "sightly time" period. "Smart deadline" is a stretchable term. In some things – and I know what I'm talking about – you really have to wait longer than you believe. But in fact we are also in Austria as far as the duration of the proceedings is concerned, a fraction of what we are used to from other countries. That makes us sure of the international comparison, and it also makes us a little proud of the achievements that are being done in the judicial system – of all those who are employed there and carry out their duties, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What I would like to warn against in this context is a shear between which one could go, in the form of an effort to make things even faster, perhaps a little cheaper and, above all, easier, and that this could then be at the expense of individual case-law, which we should put above everything in the interests of the public in the interests of the rule of law and in the interests of the public. Individual case-law against even more speed – that is, the citizen wants it to go fast, but first and foremost he wants it to be fair. First of all, he wants to make right, just, acceptable decisions, even if it takes a little longer. I therefore warn Mr Böhmdorfer about this – but I know that it is not necessary to really warn him because, I am convinced as a practitioner of the same belief – he is trying to take action to bring things over more quickly when this goes at the expense of individual case-law. There have been attempts in the past to introduce a kind of eventual maxim in civil proceedings, that is, what has not been put on the table in the beginning can no longer be said later. This may be pleasant to one or another, because it makes less work, and this may lead to a more rapid conclusion of some procedure. It will not lead to more justice, I fear. One hears again and again that one is trying to get away from the instance trains, even in civil proceedings to two, as it is sometimes the case to come to three instances, and that one makes the calling of the highest courts increasingly difficult. But: In my opinion, individual case-law must remain in justice. What many practitioners, including the old lawyer Harald Ofner, want, is that we finally come to a true file in the appeal proceedings in the serious criminal proceedings. Today it is the case that at the District Court you still have a full debt in the Court of Justice. That is to say, one can doubt the justification of the court and, if one is lucky, perhaps also come to a change in this context. But where it gets serious, at the courts, and even more with the jury, there is still no real challenge to the worth of proof. All this is from the thought, and the people sit in the shape of the courts, and the sworn ones in the midst of the people, and the people never err. Therefore, it would be nice to want to challenge the evidence when it comes to court or even jury judgments. – I think that this is a rule of proof as we know it from the Middle Ages, where someone was also taken into the boiling water, and if he was not bruffed, he was innocent, and when he was brubled, he was guilty and a head was shorter. It must be possible to challenge errors that may occur in the first instance in the context of the validation of evidence, even in the second instance, when it comes to serious matters, and not only when it comes to a bagatelle. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps it is possible to make progress in this context. It is an old favorite idea of mine – and I use the opportunity to put it back to the new Minister of Justice – to make clearer use of the instrument of professional lay judges. The lay judges are, one sometimes has the impression of a species condemned to extinction. There is only one area where they are active – very fruitful – which is labour and social jurisdiction. It could no longer be imagined without professional lay judges, without employers' representatives on the one hand and from the workers' sector on the other. In the criminal court in particular, however, it is experienced that there are economic offences there for example, but no one really knows each other – not the judge, not the prosecutor, often not the defender. But the decisions must be made. And the two sheds sitting there – nothing against the householders! –, they may be retired caretakers. They can really contribute relatively little to the invention of truth. I could imagine, therefore, that it would be useful to come to grips with the fact that, depending on the area in which criminal acts are involved, specialist ships should come from this area. If the division has been addressed today, I think you should wait and see what comes out of the survey we're going to bring over the stage. I have the honour of being chairman of this judicial survey. And if you said, Mr Jarolim, that the President-in-Office wished for such a survey, I cannot say yes or no, because I do not know. With respect to the head of state... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: He's got it!]] I don't know, but if you say it, it'll be right. I'm just saying that – with all due respect to the head of state! –: He's not responsible for that. So if he really should have arranged it or had it: He cannot conduct the legislative body to do what he imagines in this sector, or to refrain from what he cannot imagine. I say that, and even if he sat up there, I wouldn't say it otherwise because it corresponds to the facts. This survey, which is long-term and will employ a large number of people, will deal not only with the problems of the division, but also with the balance of criminal reactions to criminal conduct in Austria at all, but above all with the problem of criminal proceedings on the one hand and administrative criminal proceedings on the other. In this area, it is rather off-balanced. Every accused person is much worse today if he is standing before the administrative authority with a criminal offence than if he is in front of the criminal court – if one considers that this can be one registration in the criminal register and the other is not at human discretion. [[The red lamb on the speaker's mouth shines up.]] I notice with amazement that I have apparently been talking for 10 minutes. I only have 5 minutes on my watch, but I assume that the 10 minutes are correct, so I'm going to finish. The Austrian judicial system enjoys the trust of the people; I have already mentioned this. You only need to belong to the population. This confidence is equally enjoyed by the new Minister of Justice Dr. Böhmdorfer. Nor can the fact change that, as I take any notes in a press service, he explains that if something has a criminal character, it is also necessary to consider among people's representatives what reactions this should entail. As a Minister of Justice, that is what we will be allowed to say! If something has a criminal character, then you will be allowed to think about what is to happen as Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am convinced that this has not shaken confidence in justice and its ministers. This has not made it possible to shake it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9621	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is at 3 p.m. in 5 minutes, i.e. that you are likely to be interrupted due to your intended speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9645	Thank you, Mr President. – Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker objected that the Minister of Justice had spoken of criminally relevant errors by Members, and then there would be a penalty appropriate. [[Call the liberals:think!]] Then it would be appropriate to think about it. What happened yesterday is quite different. Mr Ofner, you have apparently not read the APA issues. If a Member of Parliament is guilty of criminal offences, there is already the possibility to treat him accordingly, we say. Best example: last year the colleague Rosenstingl. He was guilty of wrongdoing and was therefore sanctioned as a Member of Parliament, ultimately with the loss of the mandate. That's what the FPÖ should know first. But what happened yesterday is really unprecedented. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Beautiful was the shoulder closure in Carinthia today!]] The head of state of Carinthia does not require sanctions if one has committed a fraud or an honorary attack – for that there are already sanctions – but rather sanctions against representatives of the people who violate the interests of the Republic that have violated the fidelity vow. This is a clear political motivation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And Böhmdorfer, our Minister of Justice, Böhmdorfer, sits next door and says: Certainly a follow-up proposal. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Keep quoting! He's already said something about it!]] Yes, I like it when Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer sits there as a party attorney of Dr. Haider and watches over what might be criminally relevant or not. But you did not sit there as a party lawyer, Dr. Böhmdorfer, but as a Minister of Justice. You've gone your own slander propaganda on the glue! Of course, when FPÖ's day-to-day drumming: The state enemies there, the state enemies there!, this motivating propaganda that you have running, then one day you believe, these are actually people traitors, people's pests or state enemies. And then you have to impose sanctions on these people. That's your state understanding? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A minister of justice who does not realize at first glance that this is the way of thinking of a totalitarian regime, such a minister of justice is unfit! [[New appeal to the Greens and SPÖs.]] 60 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, there were appropriate paragraphs, and I recommend you read this. I quote: Those who publicly make corrupt or obnoxious statements about leaders of the state or the NSDAP, about their orders or the bodies they create that are suitable to undermine the people's confidence in political leadership will be punished with prison. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And you compare this?]] This is political intimidation! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Who shall be over such things? These are political things, they're not criminally relevant things. And that's exactly what happened yesterday in this press conference – and nothing else. That's what everyone really understood. Again: A minister of justice who does not realize that the foundations of the Constitution, the Austrian Constitution, are being placed here as a disposition, who does not realize that perhaps the freedom of expression, the free mandate of Members, with all the constitutional foundations of this parliamentary democracy, which you have always benefited from, rightfully, such a minister of justice is not appropriate at this point! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] And I can only ask the colleagues from the ÖVP: This press conference of the head of state of Carinthia and the Austrian Minister of Justice was also the subject of today's Council of Ministers meeting. What was the outcome of this meeting? What is the position of the ÖVP, what is the Austrian Chancellor about this kind of intended judicial policy?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9750	I am now interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m. to take up the debate on the reply to the question or the request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9774	I'll start the interrupted session again. Short debate on Question Time 462/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9804	In the sense of the announcement of this morning, we are now entering the short debate within the meaning of § 57a on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Social Security with the order number 462/AB. This answer has been distributed so that a reading in the house is unnecessary. We are going into the debate and I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the first speaker is given a speech time of 10 minutes. The opinion of the Federal Government should also not exceed 10 minutes. In the further debate, the speaking time is 5 minutes. Mr Brosz, as an applicant for this request, may open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9835	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today's debate on the answer to the question has been requested for a very simple reason, a reason which will become clear at the end of my remarks: The reason is that at least part of the questions apparently cannot be reconciled with the time-limit of this project or that part of the answer cannot be reconciled. In order to understand this request at all and to understand the discussion, I think it is necessary to hide something back. At the beginning of the 1990s, an ÖVP minister, Ruth Feldgrill-Zankel, came to Vienna as head of this department. In addition to her political life in the ÖVP, she also had quite personal relations in her former homeland, in Styria. There were also very personal relationships she had. Among other things, Ms. Feldbrill-Zankel had two children of godfathers, two sisters, who apparently at the time when she came to the ministry, had the need to take up a corresponding employment as well. One of the two sisters, then Andrea Holzer, became head of the office of Ruth Feldbrill-Zankel. The second sister, Veronika Holzer, was put in first place during a post post post post post post in the tendering process and in an ÖVP-internal duel has been enforced against the later Federal Councillor Karl Wilfing. There was apparently a guarantee that the item should remain at least in the ÖVP family. To the history for this project and for this history, it is still relevant that Andrea Sutter went to Karenz in the mid-1990s and is still a elected official of the ministry. And now we come to the story that fits this history. ==References== Report on the situation of young people in Austria was an evaluation project of youth work – not a self-evaluation project, but an evaluation project. It was considered to be useful by the operating organisations, and it was planned to continue this project as a self-evaluation project. As a result of this Second Youth Report, an association was established. This association is called "initiative quality" – and now we are already directly in the request answer. This association was founded for the purpose of carrying out this self-evaluation. There is now an official presentation in the request response. We have received the information from youth organisations that the project coordination for this project "Initiative Quality" is carried out by the sister of the section chief Andrea Sutter. We have once asked a very simple question, which has also been answered with Yes, namely whether this is actually true. This has been answered by the Federal Minister Sickl, who has come to the Handkuss now – I say so deliberately so. It is fair to say that all this tendering practice did not arise in the period of its political responsibility, but under its predecessor, Federal Minister Bartenstein. However, what I am accusing you, Mrs Minister, is the difference between a legal assessment and the question of a certain political sense. We have also asked you whether you think that this awarding practice to relatives is a condition that should remain this way, or where a change would be necessary. And you answered – and I read this from the answer to the question: "The documentation obligation imposed on the contractor... ensures that only the best bidder receives the award in the award of subcontracts." And now it comes: "A general exclusion of family members from senior staff to participate in public procurement procedures of a place of business is rejected." This may, of course, be all right, but I would like to draw attention to the dimension again. It is not about the fact that a family member of any official is involved in any call for tender, but it is about a project which was located precisely in the responsibility of the departmental shef, in the case of the sister. And in any form that can still be somehow okay, I believe that this is politically a completely unsustainable state. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And also the question of whether you recognize in your responsibility the need to change something, you have answered relatively clearly. On the question: "Will you ensure that such an award will no longer be possible in the future?" The answer came: "There is no reason for that." So I'm not sure what to expect in the next few years. In any case, we will look at how this award practice will be handled in the future. Okay. This is now, as it were, the official version of the ministry: There was an alert. The best, the best has come to the train. The fact that it was a family member cannot be prevented by law. But now I am telling you two things which, from my point of view, need some clarification in this whole constellation. I would like to draw your attention once again: It was a self-evaluation project. This may also mean that the organisations involved must be interested in carrying out an evaluation in their own field. The coordination for this project will be through a electorate of the Ministry, that is, someone who will later be active in the field of self-evaluation. I wonder to what extent this is politically useful from the point of view of construction. In social science, there is quite a clear statement for this. It would be said that the setting of this research task was simply completely wrong. It is simply not possible to introduce responsibility to control the client into a project on self-evaluation. That's not how it's done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And there is one thing that has already become public now and where I have to tell you that the answer to the question is not really wrong, but that at least the time course throws a very sharp light on the optics. They replied that the call for proposals for this project had been made on 19 November. ==References====External links== ==References== ==References== We have a record of the start-up meeting of this association "Initiative Quality". This Protocol dates back to 28. January 1999. That's about three months before an official call for tenders took place. According to this protocol, an official of the Ministry was present at the meeting, Mr Rosenstingl – name equality – and it seems to be on 28 May. January 1999 on who will take over the project coordination, namely a certain Mr Christian Klein and Mrs Andrea Sutter. – That was three months before it was signed out. We have a protocol – I am making this clear again in all clarity – in which it appears in the January of the note, who will receive the order and who will succeed in awarding the contract. The answer to the following question has been left open. That is why I ask you: How is it possible that in January one already knows who in a tendering procedure, which was on 19th January? April, the order will be received? – I think there is a need for explanation. I do not want you to assume that you have given this answer knowingly, but it is probably the responsibility of your ministry to take a position that is too clear, and it is probably also your responsibility to present here now how this award was possible and how in the future it will definitely be prevented from taking place in your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9935	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e9956	Mr President. High house! My previous speaker has, in fair terms, agreed that this is about a procedure which lies before my term of office, but I had the task of answering a question. I can briefly explain that this project has been awarded by the Ministry to the association "Initiative Quality", which is founded out of seven associations and then subcontracts to these seven associations as well as a project coordination to Dr. Sutter, the sister of the section chief, and Mr. Mag. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. This award was made because it was a sum of around 500 000 S – in the overall contract of work had been held by the Ministry that a call for tenders had to be made from the date of a award of 300 000 S – even after ÖNORM A 2050. There were four candidates. Mrs. Dr. Sutter and Mr. Mag. Small were the best and also the cheapest bidders. It was awarded by the association "Initiative Quality" to the best bidder. For the sake of clarity, it has to be said once again that it has not given to the ministry, but to this association. In the overall contract between the section and the association "Initiative Quality" there has also been a documentation obligation which the association has complied with. He has documented the course of the award procedure and the process of determining the best bidder. So far, so good. What you have said about evaluation, that perhaps the contract staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is currently running, might return to this evaluation, I will ensure that they will not, so to speak, carry out the evaluation of their own project. That is of course for me. As regards the two dates, you have already submitted a project meeting in January 1999, but the call for tender was only made in April and there was a provision in the ÖNORM A 2050, "Entrepreneurs who were directly or indirectly involved in the preliminary work for a tender should not in any case be excluded from a participation in the competition for the performance", it should be said that the justification was given to me – by the way I am not responsible for myself; I asked for this justification in the section – that these two persons would have special qualifications which the others would not have, namely, on the one hand, Mrs. Dr. Sutter for quality management, in which they have profiled themselves, and on the other hand, Mr Mag. Small in youth work, in which he had special experience. These were apparently the reasons why one has nevertheless given to these two persons. [[Abg. Hunter: I don't know yet! It's not clear yet!]] As regards the accusation that persons related to high officials of the Ministry, i.e. family members, are not expected to receive any projects from the Ministry, I can only confirm what I have already said in the response to the request, namely that there is no provision in the awarding directives of the Ministry of Social Security and Generations that family members of officials could not also participate in applications for projects. There is no legal basis for this either. In my opinion, this might be an intervention in freedom of employment. It can also be argued that the administrative capacity of such a provision, namely that relatives of officials should not participate in tenders carried out by a particular ministry, would be very difficult. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Call the Greens: Hit Bartenstein!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10024	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10051	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There's still a lot that's unclear for us. The answer to this question today is insufficient and partly even unscathed, so there is still a lot to be clarified. The association has already been presented; "Initiative Quality" was founded without prior information from the umbrella association of the youth organizations of Austria, the Federal Youth Ring, which I believe is unbearable from the principle. The involvement of youth organizations would have been important, instead, seven organizations were selected from the Catholic boy to the pathfinders. Three million Schillings have been budgeted for this initiative, although your predecessor Federal Minister Bartenstein, Mrs Minister, has always only heard that there is no money for activities of youth organisations currently out of free youth funding, but not for all youth organisations. There were also differences. For example, the young ÖVP has received 100 000 S for its Bundestag in addition to the normal promotions that the others receive. Other youth organisations have also applied, but have not received funding, such as the socialist youth and the action of critical students. How do we explain that? But not enough with it. The blue-black federal government has shown how it intends to occupy posts in the future. We've heard it before: The project companion is the sister of the relevant section shef. Mrs Bundesminister, you said that four had applied for this, I think the other three candidates did not have the chance to be there even during the preliminary talks. In the minutes, it appears that Mrs. Dr. Sutter was there during the preliminary talks, where exactly the tasks between Mr Mag. Klein and Ms. Dr. Sutter were divided within the framework of this project support. It's a little weird. The public tender was issued months later, as has been said. That is, Mrs. Dr. Sutter was established as the project manager from the beginning, and after all, she is the sister of the relevant departmental shef in the ministry. That's a little bit of a shabby look, my own. Ladies and gentlemen of the blue-black government group! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Perfuss: Not just a little!]] And obviously this is your idea of objective post awarding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] One important point I would like to mention in this context is that: We Social Democrats have always been for the creation of a Youth Promotion and Representative Act, and at the end of the previous legislative period... – At the end of the last legislative period, of course, we have tabled a motion for a resolution in which the Federal Government – you can read it – is asked that both the related youth promotion and youth representation as well as the promotion of open youth work on the basis of this Federal Youth Promotion Act take place. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] This law should put interconnected youth work on a new basis. I now have only two objectives: first, ensuring the basic costs of related youth work, and secondly, according to budgetary possibilities, to ensure the work of the interconnected youth organisations and the umbrella association in the long term. Ladies and gentlemen! We are still waiting for this resolution to be implemented here in the House. So far, you have not developed an initiative on this subject, but instead, in the Government Convention on Blue and Black, there is no longer any talk of youth promotions. That doesn't exist anymore. It is not surprising, therefore, if a head of government is evading young people as a "exhaustive Internet generation". This clearly shows that this government simply lacks the feeling for young people and for youth policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And without feeling you or "wife" can't make a policy for people, even for young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10113	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10134	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has just said to my great surprise that the Social Democrats have always known themselves to create a federal youth promotion law. - I can inform you: For years, the Freedom Youth and the Freedom Party have demanded and forced the law-making of such a provision, but it has not been possible for years and decades under the old government to create a legal basis for youth promotion in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Which side is that on?]] High house! With this debate on a question response and, above all, with the request for a short debate on the same subject, one thing becomes quite clear The opposition is desperate to even stand with the back to the wall, to scandalize here and thereby distract. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] It is about the fact that there is not yet such an abstractly plotted story too bad and too bad to blacken the members of this federal government and to defame it with semi-seated, subversive accusations of nepotism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Those are words! "Obskur" means the word!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! But as often as you do, you will fail here, because the Father of your thoughts is only too obvious to God. [[Abg. Ollinger: What is the Father of Thought?]] The project allocation that took place was entirely correct. What happened? – An independent association was founded, composed of various clubs, from well-respected clubs, including the "children's friends", Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, from which you are probably not so far away. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Luckily they are there!]] This association has formed and sought project support for a meaningful project, namely quality development in youth work. The Ministry has examined this, has considered it useful, and it has given certain conditions: A profitable result must be achieved and an invitation to tender in accordance with ÖNORM 2050. In addition, the intended use was ensured by a subsequent review. There is nothing to do with this procedure. In addition, the Federal Minister and the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Youth and Family have in no way interfered with the decision of the Association. The association has made a tender in accordance with the ÖNORM 2050 mentioned above. [[Abg. Oils: Too late! Everything's already gone!]] That is to say, he has duly written out that he has examined the applications received in due time, and he has subsequently awarded the corresponding supplement – exclusively as a decision of the association and under no interference of the ministry! [[Abg. Oils: Everything was over! You must study the documents! A freeman also needs to read!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! The connections you're trying to construct here, the scandal you're trying to build up here doesn't exist. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the contrary! This procedure, namely the application for project support, the examination by the Ministry, the award, the dedicated implementation and the subsequent control of the appropriate use of these funds, is exactly the procedure to be desired as a normal case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you why this procedure is desirable: This will promote meaningful and concrete youth work. This is not the case with the other kind of support, in which the Federal Youth Plan does not support it. As an abstract structure, namely the Bundesjugendring, is subsidized, there funds are arbitrarily distributed, there is the many years of practice of exclusion, at which associations of the Bundesjugendrings receive funding in millions. And only those organizations are given this access, which is to be accepted by the Bundesjugendring, namely the left-wing front-end organisations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Freedom Youth, the Pre-Arrange Organization of a...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10283	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10298	Funding for the liberal youth has been rejected. They are afraid of performance-oriented youth work. That's why you're trying to scandalize here! This is fundamental opposition, and we reject it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10337	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10358	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am talking relatively easily about this issue because I personally always had reservations about this association, which should carry out an evaluation of youth organisations. It is, however, already, because one thing I would like to say very clearly here: Just because one considers, as it were, that evaluation of youth work should be different from that of the association, and as it was then approved in the form of a project by the responsible youth ministry, that this should already be a scandal, that really surprises me. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You didn't watch!]] Consider which youth organisations have come together to carry out this evaluation. These are those that can also bring a corresponding input! The people who are active there, of course, also have an idea of how youth work happens. There are the Austrian Alpine Association Youth, the Evangelic Youth Austria, the Austrian Children's Friends, the Austrian Country Youth, the Pathfinders of Austria, the Catholic Boyschar of Austria and the Catholic Youth Austria. These are those youth organisations that have come together and said that we are establishing a project together, we are establishing the association, this "initiative quality", and we want to evaluate youth work in the future. I would like to expressly inform both those who have become project managers, namely Dr. Sutter and Mr Mag. Small, say they both have excellent references for such an activity. I would like to say this with all the clarity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I believe that we should talk very thoroughly about the issue of youth promotion. It is based on our initiative that at the end of the last legislative period – you know, we have carried out an extra youth popular desire – we have held a federal signature action in which we have tried to promote the rights of young people. You do not know what this was for a fight because you were not in the committee, which at the time has spoken in order to accommodate youth support and to adopt a resolution. [[in the direction of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Which side?]] In this legislative period, we will submit to you a Youth Promotion Act, a Youth Promotion Act providing fair youth support, a youth promotion that clearly separates between what is related youth work and what is free youth work. This is not so clear today. They are trying to assume here that the young ÖVP would have received 100,000 S from the free youth promotion for their Bundestag. That is right, but free youth promotion does not mean that only free youth work can be promoted. Please read precisely the guidelines for this! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Why did the socialist youth not get anything? That's unfair!]] Free youth funding means that these funds are not granted through the Austrian Federal Youth Ring, but are granted free of charge from the Federal Ministry. I'm not going to be criminalized at all. There you are at my wrong address. I would like to tell you this clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We've been looking for it properly. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We too!]] We got an approval. We've done it properly. We will be examined by the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Youth. That all has its accuracy. Stop criminalizing here! That is really not necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are dealing with the issue of youth promotion, we must distinguish between what is related to youth work and what is free youth work when we make a distinction in a law to be put forward. The essence of interconnected youth work is that young people are in some form united in an association. The fact that the structure must be a basis for promoting, that is, how many members or how many local groups have such a youth organization, is obvious. Your problem is – and therefore you have always resisted – that your structure is very, very weak, especially in rural areas. That's why you don't have any joy with such a promotion – and the greens don't at all! Last year you have not even sought support from your youth organization, but with us you criticize it. Something is happening with us in terms of youth work.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10459	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10491	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This was a strange speech by Mr Amon, who here gave us completely new interpretations of free youth promotion. The "poor" ÖVP youth must, because it is really so poor and gets too little money from her mother party – party funding – through political education receives so little money – party funding – and from the Bundesjugendring receives so little money, as a youth organization also serves a little with the very limited resources for free youth funding: since 20 000 S for the renovation of a house, there 50 000 S. And such a Bundestag of the Young ÖVP costs something because you want to represent, that is, 100 000 S. Mr Amon! There are many youth organisations, youth groups, development political groups, all currently facing cuts. These are primarily the young people in the country – indeed also in Catholic, evangelical and other associations and associations, where the money was deleted everywhere. Only the boy ÖVP will not be deleted. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon! It is probably a very free term of free youth promotion, although the exhibition "The World of Monks" is also funded by 100 000 S. That's a very free term. Maybe you want to bring young people closer to the monkry. If we were to think under youth support that this should be promoted to young people, I would say that this has relatively little to do with it. But perhaps this meant only discounted tickets for young people. Nevertheless, Mr Amon, you have also missed the subject in the actual discussion of this question. I hold on once again – and this is the point; try to follow this thought –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] Question 1.1 is: "If yes, since when is this family relationship known to the Federal Ministry in connection with this project?" The answer to this question is: "From the time the association "Initiative Quality" informed the former BMUJF that Ms. Dr. Andrea Sutter was given the subcontract." One would like to say that is the time when the project was signed or the call for tender ended. ==References====External links== April, it can't be so calendarian that already before – months before! – as the responsible project representative, Ms Andrea Sutter and Mr Christian Klein were employed. I can't! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Grossruck and Mr Mitterlehner.]] There's a problem with the data. In April, a project was launched in which project managers had already been installed in January – in January! ==References====External links== However, this is not to be noted, Mrs Federal Minister, even of you. This is not taken note of! I therefore have a problem, especially because, in January, not only the project representatives, who were only found by tender in April, but also the responsible section head of the Ministry, as a contact person, was appointed in January. So, already in January, Mrs. Sectionschefin – together with her sister – was sitting there, and at this point, obviously, no one has felt obliged to tell anyone that this is her sister, who is in charge of the project. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: Request by Mr Brosz, Mrs Freunds The Members who have been asked not to take note of Question Time (462/AB) of Question 407/J. There are limits to what we are willing to take note of and explain to us in response to questions – and be it only calendaric errors. It is not primarily about one being the sister of the other. No, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10591	The request for non-knowledge of the reply submitted by Mr Öllinger is in writing. Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10615	Mr President. I am looking for § 66 para. 3. the Rules of Procedure for counting the votes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10639	This desire shall be accepted. If you, Dr. Janistyn, count the pro votes in the vote, I'll count the double votes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion to give a sign. [[The pro and double votes are counted.]] [[Unrest in the hall, as MEPs want to enter the meeting room.]] [[Calls:Stay out]] The vote resulted in the vote: 70 per vote, 65 against. That is why the request has been accepted. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10684	We shall now proceed to a further brief debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Dr. Mr Jarolim, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Parliament's motion for a resolution 127/A. Posch and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the criminal code, a period of time until the 1st century. In July 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the first speaker has a speaking time of 10 minutes available to all other speakers a speaking time of 5 minutes. A member of the government has a speaking time of no more than 10 minutes. First, Mr. Dr. Jarolim. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e10720	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The occasion for the request, with regard to which we have requested a deadline, is the incredible and embarrassing procedure, the incidents, the unprecedented obituaries around superintendent Knoll, which have set out in a terrifying way that there appears to be a climate here in this country that we cannot accept. It is, I believe, a task of this whole House to counter it. We have therefore made a request to deal with hatred and to comply with the fact that there are many attempts to avoid criminally prohibited hatreds against groups by overcoming their tops. In the context of the discussion on Knoll, we have unfortunately also had to note that some of the Members of this House have been expressed by the government parties, in particular by the FPÖ – I am actually aware of no one on the part of the ÖVP –, quite understandably, some sympathy for this campaign against Knoll, this het campaign. It was a campaign that ultimately directed not only against Knoll, but also against their family, against whose children. You have all been able to extract the media – even if you do here now, as if you were not interested in everything that speaks for yourself; I would also like to say that on this occasion – you have all seen that, in the end, the children of the superintendent had to be put under police protection. [[Unrest with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] You can ignore this and say: That's something we don't care about. We assume that it corresponds to the dignity of this House that we are not interested in doing something to protect children, if they are related to someone who is politically different and who takes the freedom – and nothing else in the present case – to raise his voice for the protection of minorities! - That's what you accused Knoll. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Since the President of the Federal Republic of Germany obviously had an idea that there could be some problems with members, with representatives of the Freedom Party in this direction, he had, or ultimately, asked – however always; it is, I believe, secondary, what formal step it was – that a measure be taken to sign the Preamble expressly stating that exactly such actions are rejected by the government. A Preamble which makes a statement that it is committed to take measures to prevent that from happening. However, I wonder: How serious is this Preamble to be if we are faced with situations, with behaviours like at the time? Mr Graf! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mr. Jarolim! She doesn't take anyone seriously anymore! You're right!]] I believe that your explanation is one of those who do not make it necessary to answer it because it is itself a statement, and none of which we can be proud here in the House, nor any... – It is not hate, it is simply a matter of concern, Mr. Colleague. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The hatred looks out of your eyes!]] If you think it's necessary to stand here for helpless children, that's evidence of a way of thinking that makes me startled again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I do not know how we are progressing, but I think – with this I am appealing here to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – that we need to take appropriate steps to deal effectively with the situation in which we are currently in, I mean, both in terms of domestic and foreign affairs. I cannot spare you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in this context, because we are talking about hatred here, to say, in which the practices of individual governments, which were not accepted by us in the original form, actually had the basis. I have read today what Haider has explained, which political program has made Haider his own, and what this has ultimately led to – to the certain threat of dealing with each other both here in the house and outside of the house. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You're to blame for this!]] These are things that we should not accept, but we should be a model for the population. I would remind you of what your former party observer has explained here, perhaps to understand from this point of view that there are people outside Austria who do not want such persons to have significant influence in Austria, who do not want there to be a country in Europe where such people have the say, no more than we want such people to have decisive functions in other European countries. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What are you doing about it?]] – Unfortunately, I can only do little to God. You can do anything, and partly the ÖVP can do something. But the allegation that nothing is done is mainly to be addressed to you; I believe that is completely out of dispute. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Have you ever heard of the voters?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Accept democratic elections! Electoral results!]] I also believe that In the meantime, due to the derailments of recent times, everyone in the population had to take notice of what is actually happening. I doubt that this is actually something anyone but you in this country wants! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you still accepting results?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Haider says – also quoted several times; You can't forget it –: "If you're off the political line, you have to go, you have to show hardness. I also don't expect him to give me his hand when I lie down." – The epitome of humanity! Does that not explain much of what has actually happened in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals? - No, you don't seem to learn. Further: "The present form of living together is denatured. This is not an ideal in the national sense. Partnership consists of the leading and the serving part. So it is." – Ladies and gentlemen! It's unbearable. It is not tolerable that persons who say this, persons who call SS veterans as role models, whether as a party observer or as head of state, have a decision-making role in that country. Please understand! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A function you will never have!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Take note of the results of elections!]] This causes one of the biggest damage to Austria, and this has ultimately resulted in us being in a situation that we cannot be proud of. We should all try to get out of this situation together, just: Because of how you explain yourself here today, how you have acted in the past, how you show in many calls here what you think of dissidents, I see no way that we have a real chance to get out of this mistake. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In democracy the majority decides!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl]] And I deeply regret that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor made a speech to the nation yesterday. [[Call the ÖVP:An excellent speech!]] He spoke about Christian values on the first floor – according to "standard" even the "implementation of the Sermon on the Mount" was mentioned. At the same time – this shows the polarity of this government, which I do not want to continue to appreciate – presented on a plane Jörg Haider in Carinthia proposals, which are a massive blow against democracy and, in many, also a step towards dictatorship. It is only the beginning, but a way of thinking in the very clear direction of an authoritative attitude. [[Calls:Authoritarian]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not "authoritarian"! What is that?]] Author. I can only ask Mr Bundeskanzler – he has often been silent for reasons which are understandable to me recently, because he wants to receive this government, but that is, I believe, a point where one can no longer keep silent – to say something about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! What you have recently shown, I believe, is that the basic value of democracy in many areas is more at risk than many believe in this country. On the other hand, we should do something, together. I'll call you for that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11035	Ladies and gentlemen! I know this is a tough debate, but what should I do with the sentence: "The hatred looks out of your eyes!"? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It is!]] – These personal attacks do not have to be! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What was that?]] [[Further calls.]] Perhaps I feel otherwise, I also, honestly, do not engage in any discussion. I've been thinking about how to react. I do not give a call for order, but I mean if one Member says to another the sentence: "The hatred looks out of your eyes!", this is a contribution to escalation; I can't help myself. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11128	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Three sentences: First: The liberals will agree to the deadline request, which is all the more understandable than it aims at a deadline which is after the date on which this matter will be dealt with in the judicial committee. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is democracy!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, following the presentations of my immediate predecessor: It is not a Majesty's policy if a political party, after having appointed the Federal Chancellor for 30 years, flees from the government, even if it is the Social Democratic Party of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, Political criticism must not be confused with hatred, either in the country or in the criminal sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11183	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11217	Mr President. High house! Mr Ofner argued that this request for a deadline was somehow just hot, because it was already at the Presidential Conference last week that this request was put on the agenda of the Committee on Justice on 24 April. ==References== I really do not understand that we need a deadline request today. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the Jarolim schedule!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Whether this request is appropriate, I would like to put it down in order not to presuppose the debate in principle, but it is a question of the attacks against Mrs Superintendentin. I am not prepared to do so if the Committee on Justice makes advocacy-related legislation. In any case, I reject it! This very delicate issue, however, has already been worth so much for us that we discuss it objectively in the Committee on Justice. But it is true that church dignitaries are already very intensively protected from attacks in the law: On the one hand, insults are an official offence according to § 117 para. 2 Criminal code, that is, the woman superintendent does not have to defend herself primarily, but the prosecutor, if he has suspicions, intervenes, on the other hand, church dignitaries are protected even if the group is meant and not a person alone. If it is a hatred, with which one does not want to meet a person, namely the dignitary, but the whole group means, then according to current teaching, § 283 is already applicable. That is why, as I believe, this is not a matter of urgency, but since the issue is important, we have already put it on the timetable of the Committee on Justice. I would therefore ask the opposition to consider a little more carefully what is happening in Parliament before making any requests for deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11267	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11288	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Harald Ofner finished his speech with the sentence: "Polish criticism must not be confused with hatred". – How true, Mr. Ofner! That's what it's all about! Mrs. Superintendent Knoll, in her capacity as a citizen of this country, and also in her capacity as a church dignitary – the opinion that a human being has is not shared – has been allowed to practice criticism on a number of occasions – I also add: political criticism – of the states in this country, of the political states in this country, of my ladies and gentlemen. And what was the reaction of the Freedom Party? – A het campaign to an extent and in an examplelessness that has so far been unknown! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the way in which liberals react to criticism, to political criticism in that country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You also contribute to "deescalation"! "Hetzkampe"!]] That's why: A hundred times yes to your sentence, Harald Ofner: "Polish criticism must not be confused with hatred." [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only: If this is said by a liberal, a high-ranking member of the Freedom Party, a former Minister of Justice of the Republic, one sitting quite far ahead in this party, then all of this is already very worrying, ladies and gentlemen, if that is the only statement. Mrs. Dr. Fekter – I am now coming to speak to the President of the Committee on Justice, Mrs. Dr. Fekter – yes, it is true that this request is on the agenda of the next week's meeting of the Committee on Justice. I also read it in the Presidential Protocol. But it also says: It is planned to allocate the matter to a subcommittee. . A subcommittee with other materials, which, while also dealing with criminal law, but on the content of the matter, are completely different. After certainly non-party interpretation of the President's Protocol, this means nothing but: If we put this on the long bench, we have it out of the discussion, but we can avoid the accusation of the opposition not to talk about it. - That's it! This is the truth that you can say here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the two government parties, and in particular the government, hold it with the tolerance, with respect, with the understanding of all people regardless of their origin, religion or belief – I have now quoted from the Preamble, signed by Haider and Schüssel, now also by Riess-Passer and presented by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – we have seen Knoll, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner]] As the Chancellor of the Federal Republic holds it, we know: He's silent! He's been silent for weeks, he's been silent for months. Nothing I hear from the one who quotes the Sermon on the Mount – if it fits right now – federal chancellors, when heated, when children need the protection of the police, and this is supported by the Freedom Party and its former officials. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is immense!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Incredible!]] That's the state in the Republic! The Federal Chancellor yesterday did not speak about this in his anointing words in the Hofburg, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Should I be a Roman Catholic Austrian when Christin tells you something? – What the Chancellor of the Federal Republic operates is to quote the Sermon on the one hand the Sermon on the Mount and to put it to death on the other – only in this way can it be described. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You don't look at the hatred!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] [[New condolences with the greens.]] It is here political criticism, to which the reaction of a right-wingly established party is hatred, silenced by the others. [[Abg. Aumayr: What you do is scandal!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What you do is hate!]] These conditions, combined with your view of the rule of law, Mr. Federal Minister of Justice, whom you presented to us yesterday, are truly a dangerous threat to this Republic, and therefore we would like to discuss this – not in subcommittees, but here and now. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What you want for a republic, we know: a People's Republic!]] That is why we agree to the deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11453	I would ask colleagues from Westenthal, colleagues from Khol, colleagues from Kostelka and representatives from the Greens to come to me briefly. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 4.02 p.m. and resumed at 16.03 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11481	I'll start the interrupted session again. Ladies and gentlemen! I apologize, but the fact that the words "hate", "hate", "gone" and "het campaign" were used in such short succession has prompted me to ask the four club chairmen, but to influence the fact that what we are doing in the presidential is also realized. All four promised, and that's enough for me. I hope it works, too. Mrs Andrea Kuntzl has now come to speak. Then we have a vote. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11514	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The deadline request is very useful because it is intended to ensure that the request is put into plenary session and is not postponed to the long bank. In this debate, we are discussing the hetification paragraphs, and at the same time there is a proposal from the head of the Carinthian state, which is based on the fact that political dissidents and their representatives are to be organised. [[Abg. Aumayr: Again the "hetze"!]] The head of state of Carinthia... (More intense calls to the liberals. - Abg. May. Schweitzer beats the table several times before outrage with the flat hand.) – We still have the free word in this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hetze again! Now we've just discussed...!]] [[Further violent calls to the liberals.]] So the head of state of Carinthia wants to define who is the enemy of the people; and his answer is clear: Cases of prosecution are to be all those who do not face Mr. Haider and consorts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Consorten"!]] In the future, those who allow for critical thoughts and express them are to be punished. In the future, all those who do not want a closed society are to make themselves guilty. In the future, those who want to open their mouths and have an open democracy in which their own opinion is desired and not punished are to be punished. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Certainly not in the Socialist Party!]] We stand for open democracy, and we were concerned from the outset about the way this coalition makes policy. Our worst fears have been exceeded. [[Abg. Ellwall: What fears?]] Our warning is: Blue-black threatens democracy and freedom of expression! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] After social reduction, freedom will be reduced. The fact that the Minister of Justice of the Republic has become a supporter of Jörg Haider and acts as a side car at public appearances fits into the picture. [[Call the liberals: "Performance aid!]] We have warned against the fact that the party attorney of FPÖ will also make a party policy as Minister of Justice. And do you know what it really is? - That's right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The party attorney of the FPÖ is doing well and immediately and considers the idea of sanctions against representatives of the people to be "prosecutable". "Persecutable", that's a central term, and he's defying for the goal behind it. It is about the people who think the FPÖ is "traceable". Now we're still working with the enemy image of politicians, but I'm asking: Who's next? Who's next? The student who dares to go to the streets against the non-social policy of coalition? [[Abg. Fischl: You have a chase!]] The artist or intellectual, who has the right to complain that this coalition puts the civil society that needs free space in acute need of breath? Minister of Justice! I ask you: Who are you going to do when the order of the head of the Carinthian is coming? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Incredible!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since yesterday, it's definitely clear: First of all, you understand yourself as your Lord's servant, and that makes you unbearable as a minister. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: All Members are equal, but some are more "equal"!]] Unfortunately, the ÖVP participates in this policy, and it is speechless – but not for fear of the future of democracy, but for fear of the Chancellor's chair. The Federal Chancellor likes to lose empty formulas about the situation of the nation, but he is silent when it comes to the future of Austria. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic is correct if he wants to sell the Austrian tax packages as reforms, but he is silent when Haider wants to destroy democracy. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I can't believe what you're saying!]] [[Further calls.]] I urge the Federal Chancellor to find what Blue-Black obviously wants to ban powerful citizens: an open word. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What does the Federal Chancellor have to do with it?]] But I don't expect too much, because ÖVP takes over – keyword: Böcke and Sheep – language and style and finally also the policy of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11740	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11756	Blue-black thinks in black and white and divides the country into good and evil. We will fight this policy because we want democracy to live. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was the closing point!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11806	I would like to strongly reject the expression "hairs and consorts"! – I will give orders when we have clarified in the Presidential Assembly how we proceed with the words "Stalinists", "Oberverneider" et cetera. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 127/A by Mr Mag. Posch and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the criminal code, a period of time until the 1st century. In July 2000 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, labelling and labelling of dangerous substances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this deadline proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (O Muhammad SAW) There you should not have been so upset!]] [[Abg.This would never have happened to you.]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11863	I will now start the negotiations on the Advisory Group V: Justice again. Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e11888	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Today's judicial debates are overlaid by the press conference yesterday. I would like to follow up with Mr Kuntzl's speech, which yesterday's statements used to make the statement here, that blue-black endangers democracy. My dear colleagues from the left! We will not make you happy that we will be providing points of attack here in terms of democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What it was about yesterday was that so much criticism came up. The fact is that yesterday the Federal Minister and Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider discussed whether the violation of the vow we are making here can lead to a penalty or whether there is a penalty at all, and if so what. The vow means – for recapitulation –: "They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Each mandater and every mandater must be pleased that it is questioned whether it or it has complied with the laws. However, it may also use the right of free expression, freedom of thought and freedom to stand up for political interests for every representative and every mandate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the other hand, in the previous debate, in which Mrs Superintendent would have been such an occasion, I have just spoken out in favour of the creation of a new criminal code of conduct, and I am against introducing a new legal record in another case. The Committee on Justice is well-known for not producing hips, but for discussing legal proposals in a broad scientific and political manner, and only after a long debate in this House. Those who ask for the high amount of freedom of expression, ladies and gentlemen, should not measure by two means: on the one hand, to place on the gold scale the statements of a minister who has only been in office for a few weeks; on the other hand, to formulate statements here in Parliament relatively prudently or to evaluate the statements of a left-wing professional who has been in the political business for decades, and to put away the gold balance and to tolerate everything he has said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that from the point of view of the EIA, I have said enough about this issue, and I now turn to the budget figures. At the end of the 1980s, i.e. more than ten years ago, there was a serious difference in the budget figures between staff costs and actual expenditure. Staff costs were usually twice as high as the actual expenditure in the budget. This shear then came together at the end of the nineties. I therefore welcome this because it ensures that the electronic equipment, the equipment of the judicial body, the equipment of the courts in the 1990s has been put forward accordingly. In the present budget, this difference between personnel costs and material expenditure is more apart, but only slightly, but noticeably. Let me lose a sentence on this. Not because we would have saved the IT equipment, no, the actual effort is reduced in relation to staff costs, because we have reduced the funds for budgetary reasons in the other facilities and because a very large level of staff has been transferred to the judicial area with regard to consumer protection. It is true, therefore, that, for example, in the central area of staffing also increases due to the acquisition of consumer protection competences and therefore the sheer disperse in the percentage division between physical expenditure and staffing effort – thank God not at the expense of modern justice infrastructure, the IT equipment. I would also like to address a budget-related issue, namely that of the District Court Organisation. As the Upper Austrian Minister, allow me to say a few words about this. As early as 1995, the Court of Auditors has proposed that certain district courts, which are equipped with, for example, only a judge's office or even less, should be combined in order to make savings or achieve greater efficiency. With the exception of this, the Court of Auditors already has the capitals of the district. The Court also held that geographically close district courts could also be grouped together. And he has also stated that there are certain constitutionally questionable borders that could be settled in this context. The Court's rulings and mergers of 26 small district courts would result in a reduction of currently 59 to 33 courts in the Upper Regional Court of Linz. The resulting new structure would have the effect of achieving a much better efficiency, saving funds, and perhaps even serving the case law if there were larger units. However, the fact is, Mr Minister, that the Court of Auditors has also urged that this measure be raised as an understanding of this measure by providing sufficient information to the citizens concerned, communities, staff in such a peaceful manner. I believe that the information needed for this and the local discussions have not yet taken place enough because there is no understanding of it and the view of things in the regions is quite different from that of the judicial community. It will be forgotten that these locations are not only faced with the changes in the district court structure, but also with a wealth of other measures. Some examples of this: Gendarmerie posts are to be locked, survey offices are to be moved, post offices may be closed, other structural facilities, infrastructure sites should be locked. This means that there is a massive tendency for rural areas to be gradually dried up in favour of centralism. And we can't take that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] I already realize that every resort has good arguments for itself, if only it sees its own church tower. But people on the ground are affected by all measures and not only do they see the individual measure, for which there may even be good arguments. We need to counter this centralism to ensure that we do not dry out rural areas in infrastructure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would therefore ask you, Mr Minister, to provide the information requested by the Court of Auditors in 1995 with sufficient information, to discuss with the citizens concerned, to seek with the judicial staff, and possibly to develop appropriate solutions in cooperation with the head of state. It is not reasonable for staff in these courts to have their own jobs challenged every few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12012	The next speaker is Member Pendl. The speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12033	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present judicial budget is a savings package that experts believe is just enough to survive. In this budget debate, we can see that you do not have savings targets, but only tax targets – a package of injustices. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on a section of the chapter on justice, namely the enforcement of penalties. A statement of receipt: The criminal service is a very difficult service for all professionals, whether for judicial, social or administrative staff or special services. This service is of enormous importance in the interests of Austrians as well as of internal security. A few years ago, as part of a occupational medical study, it became apparent that the group of judicial officers is the most psychologically burdened group within the Austrian executive. That is why we need to create a proper framework for this so important area. Although the amount of lay-backs in recent years is somewhat stable – currently in the Austrian judicial institutions, there are just over 7 000 inmates – it must be pointed out that inmates have been getting more difficult for years. Their care and treatment is also very labour-intensive. This is due on the one hand to organised crime, on the other hand to the ever-increasing number of those who, according to § 21 para. 1 and 2 StGB are condemned, attributed. It is evident that since the in-force step of the housing law, their number has been increasing constantly. This means that more and more psychiatric diseases are being stopped in Austrian judicial institutions, and this in turn means that the day on which the last schilling of our execution budget is spent only for the medical care of these inmates is calculated. I have also referred to this important issue of the Austrian execution in the Committee, Mr Federal Minister, and I would like to ask you to become an initiative in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are certainly several approaches there. A way would be to change the accommodation law, because I mean, we cannot carry out the entire sentence in the form of a psychiatric institution. However, if there is no such task, I believe it is absolutely necessary that within the judicial system there should be additional institutions, especially those inmates who, according to § 21 para. 1 StGB are stopped, accommodated. You, Mr Federal Minister, and your ladies and gentlemen in the department know exactly what financial resources need to be spent on these inmates at the moment. I think there is more than a need for action, and we all know exactly where we know the increasing numbers of those convicted of this paragraph. From March to April this year alone is the number of those according to § 21 para. 1 have been sentenced from 230 to 242, and the number of those who have been sentenced according to para. 2 have been sentenced from 221 to 225. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! There is a huge problem for both colleagues serving in criminal service as well as for the whole organisation of justice, and I think we have to deal with this problem together. However, I cannot imagine that in such a difficult area, where personnel use is absolutely necessary – because here a lot can already be driven off and prevented from something happening – this budget is going to help. Less resources on the one hand and fewer planning posts on the other – I believe that only in criminal proceedings is a reduction in the number of guards' posts by 50 – mean that an increase in the number of services leading to ever-greater additional burdens on colleagues is not possible with this level of staff. I believe that reforms – this federal government is always talking about "regovernment" and reforms – cannot look like an ever-increasing pressure on staff, that is to say, on colleagues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Federal Minister of Justice, - I hope that the President-in-Office of the Justice Committee will also be active in this matter - that, in the interests of the Austrian execution of the sentence, on the one hand, for humanitarian reasons, to ensure a modern execution, on the other hand, on the other hand, we will be very quick to act in the interests of security and also of our staff, and that the necessary implementation steps will be taken, otherwise we will only be able to speak of a forerunner whom, as I believe, all of us do not want. Finally, I would like to very much thank the ladies and gentlemen of the central management for their commitment and for their continued over-participation. I would also like to thank all the members of the judiciary, especially the colleagues in prison.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12110	Mr Krüger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12131	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Jarolim rightly spoke of a tradition in the judicial community, which is to avoid day-to-day discussions as far as possible and to deal exclusively with matters of policy in the sense of a debate on the subject. However, when the message was scarcely clung, in the next sentence he began to criticize the press conference of the head of state of Carinthia in the presence of our Minister of Justice with some very rough words. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not willing to respond because enough words have already been used for this. Mr Ofner has already mentioned this. However, I would like to do one thing: I think there is hardly any professional to speak on this as the President of the National Council. I have here an APA message of yesterday's day, which reads as follows: "National Council President Heinz Fischer (S) said – in the press conference mentioned above – "There have been special provisions on the grounds of anti-state activity, for example, in the GDR, but he cannot imagine that someone "the ambition to introduce similar provisions also in Austria"." Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the National Council has not excluded anyone here, nor the head of state in Carinthia, nor the Minister of Justice at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the Disversion now. This is, as some of you may know, one of those issues that I have dealt with very extensively during the past legislative period. Mr Jarolim, it is certainly not possible that, when someone criticizes the disversion, one criticises individual provisions, but does not reject the division as a whole, even if the right-wing Stone Age is trying, because these are killer arguments. That's what we're gonna do. We're gonna kill every discussion. And on the other hand, we have to keep up with it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely in a parliamentary democracy that one or two parties or a coalition, as was the case in the past legislative period, have the majority. This coalition is putting its projects to the fore and forth. That's what you did. You have therefore ignored any suggestions for improvement, restrictions of the then opposition FPÖ. But now you can't say: Because we want to have changes in a number of areas, that is to say, to violate completely the thoughts of the disversion and to proclaim the ice age of justice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is my criticism of the disversion? – I say it again: I don't disapprove of the division. It has its advantages in the field of small crime, especially in the field of negligence. I've always said that it's an ain't that the Austrians are almost a pre-punished army just because they've been involved sometime in a traffic accident in which a sluggish syndrome or similar medium or more severe body injuries have been the result – they've been pre-punished since then. That's not a question at all. But I mean – I have represented this view in the past legislative period, and I represent it now – that the child has been poured out with the bath, in that, in principle, all those offences that are threatened with a criminal framework for up to five years have been declared disversionable. "In principle," I say – there are exceptions, that is known. That is to say, it also falls – in connection with the budget and so on, the word "grievances" is now always used – as horrendous offences as, for example, intentional body injury with severe permanent consequences. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There are offences that are simply not disversible. And I have said several times that it is incomprehensible to me why child pornography falls under it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Mrs. Col., let me talk to you. I say to the completeness that child pornography is not covered by the division when it comes to sexual interaction. I'll give you all the right. But the mere production of child pornography without direct sexual approach to the child falls within the scope of the division. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Also commercial!]] Mrs. Ex-Minister! But that just doesn't have a place in the version. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why can you defend this, Mr. Jarolim?]] I can also give you another example, Mrs Mag. Prammer – the kidnapping of a child to abuse it for fornication is disversionable. [[Abg. May. Prammer: If the court punishes too little!]] Of course, I agree with you that in many cases there are sexual interactions and that the division has nothing more to do with them. But should only the fact that someone – and this kind of crime has occurred – in front of a school wake up young children and try to abduct them with some sugars to lead them to fornication, but not even to hand, to be disversionable? - You can't say that seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! There are other areas in the division, which I believe are in need of reform. The two forms of sexual offences belong out, I have already mentioned. In my opinion, the drug offences also come out, because there are enough examples in the drug law, enough cases in which one can intervene competently. On the other hand – and no one can explain this to me – it is not useful to let someone who, by commercial means, brings addiction among the people under the limit, fall under the division. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The speaking time is short. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister of Justice very briefly on the fact that he has expressed some words of Mr Jarolim's praise, congratulate him on his previous work and wish him every good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12221	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12242	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the budget debates, it is a very positive practice that the judges of the respective parties – I have now spoken to myself as a judge – are the first to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary for the support we receive from them. Every year I said it again and again: It is a support that is characterized by an equidistance towards the political parties, as I do not know it from any other place. I am also saying this with regard to Dr. Böhmdorfer, who is only a short minister, but, as I hope, not for long, as will still be the case during my speech, for other reasons. I would like to congratulate you, Dr. Böhmdorfer, on the official service in the Ministry of Justice. In recent years, I have come to know them as highly competent and highly fair – even when dealing with the opposition. Thank you very much to the ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The era of the government bowl has begun with an episode. This episode was called Krüger. These were four weeks that were very turbulent for the judicial resort, as I mean. Dr. Krüger then, on his own, relinquished the office of the Minister of Justice and probably did so. Then Dr. Böhmdorfer was appointed to this office. I personally tried to see this as objectively and impartially as possible, and thought that from the episode Krüger becomes an era Böhmdorfer, for, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer surprised me a lot at the beginning. I am now talking about the beginning, ladies and gentlemen. For example, a statement by a Minister of Justice: Life let's not stay alive! The correction – Mr Jarolim has already mentioned it in his speech – the blue-black judicial programme in view of the ideas one had regarding the immediate elimination of the divisional provisions and so on, has asked me for respect, Dr. Böhmdorfer. And that's what I'm saying, because I mean it. Dear Dr. Böhmdorfer! Therefore, what was to be heard and read yesterday from you is all the more disappointing, and that is why the lack of renunciation is even greater. Mr. Dr. Ofner, Mr. Michael Krüger, mentioned the extent to which there is no such thing as a lack of renunciation and also a problem, by quoting from the press release of the President of the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! There has never been anything like the fact that the chief guardian of the rule of law, the Minister of Justice, has actually launched the most intense attack on the rule of law I have experienced in my life and, I believe, Mr. Fischer in his life. That is why this high level of distress and lack of renunciation. This has nothing to do with equal treatment or equivalence, but it cannot be understood that the Minister of Justice of the Republic, on the proposal to introduce a special criminal law for Members and agents, says that this proposal is certainly desirable. It is a proposal at the early stage, but it is about the political discussion about it. Ladies and gentlemen! You have to consider this: The one who bears responsibility for the independence of the courts is the one who agrees to a proposal as abstract from the first moment as Dr. Haider's immediately, spontaneously – I do not think it was spontaneous, I believe in the meantime, that was probably agreed, well planned and well placed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That is also the reason for our incompetence and for us to express our distrust to Dr. Böhmdorfer – I have already mentioned what he has done so far. That is why the Greens have filed a motion of censure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A more dangerous constitutional displeasure – to speak with the words of Professor Heinz Mayer – and a more true face than the FPÖ has shown with this proposal, there is probably no such thing. That beats the barrel out of the ground! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: There's nothing wrong with us!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have already experienced a number of things in connection with the "Third Republic" – not now appealing to what Dr. Haider said about the past and his appreciation for SS members and so on or the "ordinary employment policy" – in terms of the state of the Republic and the constitutional structure as a whole. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I've already experienced annoyed things!]] There has not yet been a more serious attack on our democracy, and that is what the black and blue government is doing now, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Can you remember that you blamed the liberal on the letter bomb?- Oh, my God!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I always try to imagine what the other Europeans are talking about. What do they think about Austria after, whether we are rightly or unjustly put up in this context, so to speak, in the sight of the observation all over Europe, what is the whole of Europe, when such proposals come when the Minister of Justice of the Republic calls them worthy and capable of political discussion at an early stage?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Can you remember that you said all the liberals were imprisoned for 20 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's definitely too far! Proposals of this kind, thought patterns of this kind are known only to totalitarian structures and in the past have only been found in totalitarian structures. That's what makes her dangerous, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's still going on. The whole story has continued: The blue-black Federal Chancellor of this Republic said this today – a day later! – lapidar, he considers it a starting summer theme. [[Abg. Großruck: As he understood!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Federal Chancellor Schüssel stressed that he was not thinking of approaching sanctions!]] Please, what does that mean? Federal Chancellor Schüssel considers this proposal – in our opinion, but not only our view, but the outrage goes through all of Austria, can such a proposal really be anything but totalitarian thinking and authoritarian structures – for a starting summer theme? How do I understand? – That he thinks now the discussion has begun, now it will somehow be week by week, until the temperatures – at present they are only 30 degrees – rise to 35 degrees, still occupied by Haider and perhaps even Bohemian or whoever? How to interpret this? However, I do not hide the fact that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has not disappointed me with this, for that is the way in which he has dealt with everything that has been done by his coalition partner on the right: either not to face criticism, not to tell them to death or to talk them small, to banalize them. This is the accusation we have to make to Dr. Schüssel. I'll come back to the Minister of Justice again. Ladies and gentlemen! Political criticism and political critics are being punished – there is nothing at present about clear and precise formulated laws; a formulation has not yet been presented to us by Dr. Haider, but, I believe, he has had a behind-thinking before. Mouthing dead from opposition, from political criticism, mouth-to-mouthing of political opponents has occurred during the Nazi period. I think it was Alexander. Van der Bellen, who has already quoted today from laws of this time, namely from the law on the evasion of the state. There has also been a criminal clause on treason. If you hear them and think of what was said yesterday, hopefully some who have not thought so far will also come up with a light. At the time – I quote – this law was: Those who, as Germans, cause a serious danger to the reputation of the German people as a result of an untrue or grossly disfigured claim abroad will be punished with a breeding house. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not far from the divisions we have heard in the last days and weeks. This has been the criminal clause regarding betrayal of the people under Adolf Hitler in the Third Reich! Imagine that once! And you, Dr. Böhmdorfer, are – I am not going to suggest to you what I have quoted – all of this for sure – what have I read? – in an early stage "traceable". [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] It was a matter of conducting a political discussion. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: There is a ban on the liberals!]] May I simply ask you: What did you think about it? What did you, as the Minister of Justice of this country, intend to follow up on such proposals? I have not read or heard an answer so far, Dr. Böhmdorfer! – Thank you, we are also waiting, because what is known so far can only be a consequence of mistrust on the part of the Greens or on the part of the Opposition. [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer: I can explain this to you!]] And I would also like to read the motion for a reluctance: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot be a person who approves the most serious attack on the democratic constitutional structure in this country, on the free mandate, on the rights of the opposition, on the free expression of opinion, on the idea of persecuting, on trust, on him as the supreme guardian of the rule of law. That is why we ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to issue a clear rejection of this kind of policy with the distrust that we are expressing today by Dr Böhmdorfer. I don't know any other reaction to it now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Dr. Böhmdorfer is not the head of the province, not the head of the Austrian province. As far as is known so far, he is not even a "simple party member", like Dr. Haider, but he is a simple – I do not mean that in the sense of simply – party attorney of the Freedom Party or Dr. Haider. But he is in the position in which he was now appointed, the Minister of Justice of the Republic and not the party attorney of Dr. Haider. Mr. Justice Minister, that's what you've been playing my trust for. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You never gave him your trust!]] We can also do this in the sense of legal certainty, in the sense that we constantly call on the people to put their trust in the proper jurisdiction, to have confidence in the rule of law, not to tolerate confidence in our structure of the division of power, which has proved itself well over decades. I can't trust a minister of justice who says: Swamm over, this is a mistake, the times are different, now is blue-black on it, now the wind blows differently! That is why, Minister of State, you no longer have my confidence and confidence in my group.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12458	The motion for a resolution by Mrs Stoisits, which has just been read, has been supported and is under negotiation. The Federal Minister is speaking. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12482	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin by quoting what is at the heart of this debate. This vow, which was the subject of the press conference of Dr. Haider, reads as follows: "They vow unbreakable fidelity of the Republic, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." Dr. Haider improvised at a press conference and not, as you believe, the honourable Member, after a long agreement, but after a very short preliminary remark, explained to me that he is very much at his disposal in respect of this promise and that he regrets that it is not possible to create more responsibility. I have given him – I will present it even more precisely – and, as I have already said before all the public in ignorance of the motion for a reluctance, I have explained the following: I am neither the promoter nor the braker of this request. I would have behaved the same way with every other politician. [[Abg. Oillinger: But you should be a braker!]] This means that if someone in this country believes that he should spread a political idea, he should not be immediately prevented from doing so, but should be able to participate in the political discourse by means of free expression of opinion. I think so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also afraid that you have devalued your request for distrust by the fact that you have already introduced one before the start of the work of this government. I would like to point out that in my first speech here in Parliament, I made a confession to the Austrian judicial system, as it could not be clearer, and also a commitment to the rule of law, as it could not be clearer, and in connection with this, a commitment to the independence of the judges. I tell you that a rule of law without the independence of the judges is not imaginable that even a free lawyer is not imaginable – I was a lawyer for 27 years, I lived in this environment, I benefited from it, many others too. So I know that without independence the judges of the rule of law cannot work, and I have seriously meant this confession. I have also represented the Freedom Party for 15 years as a lawyer and I have experienced that the free mandate is one of our most sacred legal assets and everyone commits a crime against democracy that attacks the free mandate. I do not at all intend to shirk at this free mandate, even in the least. I didn't have her yesterday, I didn't have her today, I'll never have her. [[Abg. Oillinger: Dr. Haider already – you have to slow him down!]] Dr. Haider doesn't have that intention of my knowledge either. But I didn't get up here to defend him. Ask him, and discuss with him yourself. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you have the chance to get more influence in this country, you owe it to the free mandate, to political competition. And likewise, the Freedom Party can say, in free competition, in the discussion, in political competition it has achieved its successes and other parties as well. There is no indication in my entire life that I have ever wanted to shake this free mandate, but there is no indication that as the Federal Minister of Justice, I have ever prevented anyone from participating in the political debate or will in the future prevent him from participating in the political debate, as he wants, and as he does. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject-matter: Mr Jarolim – he is here – I thank you for the information on the division, I thank you for the information on "life-long". You don't change my position; I haven't left the government line – you just like it – in none of the two areas, I'll come back to it. But I can and will not distance myself from Dr. Haider's explanations because I didn't identify with them. I have never explained that I identify what Dr. Haider said with what I want, but I have – if you have followed this press conference – explained: I am not a party – that has also been published – but everyone should be allowed to express their opinion. You have to take note of that. All those who have presented this differently today are simply wrong, they leave what they read in the newspapers about facts yesterday. I thank colleagues Dr. Ofner, an experienced lawyer, in whom I have learned a lot, for his references to the eventual ceilings, with regard to the professional lay judges. I would also like to thank you for wishing me a great deal of success in my further field of activity, in the judiciary, as Minister of Justice. I can point out with some pride – I share your appreciation for our civil service – some of what we have been doing since 29. ==References====External links== I will give you a brief speech on what happened in the Federal Ministry, which has partly also come to Parliament and to the Council of Ministers. I do not think you will find your confirmation that party policy has been pursued here. Reform of criminal proceedings is on the way. I have already been able to report to you, also in the Budget Committee, that this reform project on 31 December. ==References====External links== The StPO, from the years 1852 and 1875, will be fit for the next millennium. There will be increased victim protection, cooperation between StA and the security authorities will be better regulated than before, legal remedies will be available in the field of pre-procedure and much more. You know that the negligent Krida has now been re-regulated, the ministerial draft has already been passed by the Council of Ministers, the situation has been re-regulated and the Federal Council has passed, the case is now called "a grossly negligent impairment of the interests of creditors". The economy gives us many arguments and many compliments for this regulation. Keywords: Disversion. It is in principle very much of the right thing which has been said here by both sides to the disversion. Mr Krüger rightly pointed out that the division could not be suitable for everything and could not be suitable for everything. Talks with the prosecutor and the courts have shown that they do not apply to sexual offences and not to drug offences. The Enquete Commission will provide us with valuable information. My friend Harald Ofner will surely lead this survey commission with his great experience in such a way that in consequence, by the end of this year, the division will have that place in the Austrian legal system she deserves. We expect 35 000 disversion cases for the district courts this year, 3 500 for the national courts, 35 percent for negligent traffic offences, 10 percent for shoplifts – these are the first figures. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the subject: "Life must stay for life." & Again: Both are right. Sterile and without reference to the people this means that people, inmates of judicial institutions living in total perceptiveness, may become murderers. That is, according to scientific findings, they may kill someone who is putting themselves in their way. We have to follow the line that we are dealing with both the resocialisation and the security risk. This means that they can only be released if the resocialisation is completed and they no longer pose a safety risk. The question of safety risk was a big problem for me. We have been discussing this for weeks, and now there is a lot clearer than before. The prisoners of action and the so-called normal prisoners may, if released, be released only at a trial period of ten years. This is the current legal base. The in itself understandable demand "Life must stay for life!" If you decide to release such inmates, you can observe them for a lifetime, and you can also treat them. That is to say, one can, with the help of science and with its findings, make a bridge to the understandable and right political demand. "Life must stay for life!" towards a proper, modern legal system. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The regulation of the new dispute procedure is practically complete; there is still a round of negotiations. There has been a fundamental reorganisation of the entire law, which is more than 150 years old. Also this law is soon fit for the 21st century. ==References== After the 1991 reform, the Novelle Executive Regulations have been completed. With regard to the execution of the claim, the revision of the driving-execution took place and in 2000 the reorganisation of the property execution. Here too, we get great compliments from the economy in advance. They all know that there is a huge reform commission in the field of civil process. Their work will certainly be completed this year. In my opinion, civil procedural procedures will certainly be handled by 20 to 30 percent faster than before. We have major privatisation projects. We want to privatize the execution service – of course, in agreement with the employees. We want to dissociate the authorities, we want to dissociate the parole aid and much more. In the field of computerization, justice is of many unknown world leaders. It offers more than the lawyers software packages can possibly understand. We can be proud of this justice. We are even more proud that we have a new competence: consumer protection. We will do much in the field of consumer protection. We are among those who are not afraid of the great, not afraid of the banks. We will bring to people's attention the floating interest-rate clause. We will inform consumers and the small people of how much later they can defend themselves against the banks if they have perhaps paid too many interest for decades or even for years. – That would be the work in progress. If you think and read what I really said yesterday, you will see that I have merely explained that I will continue to observe the social development and discussion of this subject in the light of the idea expressed by Dr. Haider – as once Broda. And I added: On these occasions I always refer to one of my predecessors, Dr. Christian Broda, who, for example, has recognized in the field of family law and matrimonial law: Now is the time to reorganise this huge complex. That is to say, it is the historically recognised and accepted task of a Minister of Justice to observe what happens in society, what society wants to observe, even to observe what is damaging to it, and then, in case of any need for action, together with the top officials you have promised, together with the clubs, to consider what has to be done together with the President of the Committee on Justice. – I said no more word! What you're accusing me here is that there's an evil, long-conquered thought here, or whatever's behind it, is just wrong! I ask you for that fairness that characterizes the climate throughout the judicial committee, for the distance you have spoken of yourself, and for that clarity of thoughts, free from aversion, so that you will finally come to the realization that we want to do nothing else, as you probably and hopefully also do, as proper material work! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12603	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Tancsits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12624	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to deal with the real problems and projects of the Austrian judicial policy and not this mistrust that I do not seem to understand. But let me make one comment: I think it alarming to read a text from the National Socialist Germany to a minister and then act as if he had not distanced himself from it. This contradicts my sense of justice and fairness, and I want to distance myself from such an approach in all clarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was a premise!]] But now, as announced, to relevant problems in the budget chapter Justice, in which we want to achieve, with a large project, namely the residential law amendment law 2000, not only improvements for landlords, residential users and also for the market, but also as an example of how to relieve justice and judicial administration by deregulation. The Living Rights Change Act 2000 has already been discussed here several times, it will be in the Building Committee next week. It has been criticized by the opposition, a criticism which I take very seriously, namely that fear is expressed that no improvements can be made to the costs of those affected. I take this seriously, because I believe you really think that today, in 2000, by setting rent rates, by monitoring prices and charges by courts and authorities up to the second place behind the comma prices could actually be kept low. The past shows us something quite different; I can say that just as a Vienna-based mandate. This policy of renting has resulted in the fact that only a few years ago we got under control the housing shortage, the horten of apartments and the proceeds in this city and in this country. All of these are accompanying appearances, as they are of course for a planning economy and for planning action: the emergence of black markets, the anger, the hordes and the under-the-wheels comedy, especially the weakest in the market. We have gone a different way, and we are going a different way with this housing law 2000. We want to reduce the costs for users and candidates. More market, clear and transparent arrangements, about 25 percent of a uniform discount for deadlines: This will result in more housing, more business space coming to the market and thus corresponding pressure on prices. Standardized bills will not only provide an improvement for the tenant, but will also lead to a substantial discharge of the conciliation bodies and the under-courts – to this being enough to look at the actual activity and the procedure. However, we will also be invigorating more markets through a framework for more market-oriented cities and street trains by opening up deadlines for business venues. I would like to thank you on this occasion for the process of the creation of this novel housing law and for the first-class advice provided by the judicial department and the officials of your department, Mr Minister. The Economic Research Institute evaluates the previous work on the Novelle 2000 residential law change law as follows. I quote: The recasting of the time-limits scheme in the area of rental apartments increases flexibility and mobility through freer contract design for both market partners – the real estate economy and those seeking housing. As a result, an even larger part of the old rent stock should be offered on the market and thus cause further pressure on the rental of housing. In this way supply and demand mechanisms are more involved. A quote from the Institute for Economic Research on business premises: This will facilitate access to business premises in particular for young businesses and traders. The new regulation gives both sides greater freedom in the design of contracts. With this project, we relieve state, justice and judicial administration of regulation and create framework conditions for market events. However, we would like to be there – and allow me this second part of the judicial policy – where the citizen is seeking law to facilitate access to it. I am therefore pleased that the democracy package will show additional opportunities for the public prosecutors who can help the citizen to speed up procedures. It is the decision of the deadline then in any case at a Senate of the Supreme Court. This is therefore not a violation of the division of violence, but a possibility for the citizen to get right faster and better. This is the task of judicial policy in a modern rule of law and in a modern democracy. In this sense, I think that the rule of law under this Minister of Justice – I come back to the beginning of my remarks – is in good hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12670	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12691	Mr President. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! The present judicial budget, with its inaccurate savings, makes a further sad contribution to a redistribution from bottom to top. There are drastic cuts in staff, judges, executions and others, especially because the Federal Government is pouring out its filler horn over entrepreneurs and large farmers, and for ideological reasons only it cannot be deduced from providing super-earners and rich people with social and family benefits that the poor would urgently need. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the case of justice, it is expected to be drastically saved, although one knows that saving in the wrong place in this area is associated with expensive follow-up costs. Those who use the savings fund in criminal proceedings and re-socialisation will not be able to rejoice over the saved money for a very long time, because it is to be feared that the increasing crime will also result in significantly higher follow-up costs in addition to all other bad consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, this saving rate will also make it difficult to implement the few positive points found in the Federal Government's judicial programme. So I welcome the planned and increased use of employment therapy in the implementation of measures, Mr Minister, but I fear that the practice will be such that there will be less employment therapy than before, as the Federal Government has broken the money down in the budget. The same applies to the assurance of special therapies during arrest and conditional dismissal. I fear that saving the health in the area of justice will, among other things, increase the frequency of relapse therapy. Because I'm talking about therapies right now: In another sensitive social area too, the policy of the Federal Government threatens to lead to significant deterioration, namely in drug policy. It should be noted that only the restriction of civil service places clearly reflects the importance of drug policy by the Federal Government. Unfortunately, the signs are that the proven Austrian principle "help instead of punishment, therapy instead of punishment" is to be weakened or even replaced by purely repressive measures, of which all relevant experts know that they are the opposite of what users want to say. According to the Federal Government's judicial programme, drug policy is only briefly or only related to aggravation. In this way, it is called for that the sale of drugs by security bodies is to be regulated clearly by law, but it has been deliberately refrained from the formulation of "under rule of law". This purchase can only be useful if it is based on clearly formulated legal criteria. Otherwise there could be developments that we all do not want. The project to include drug stocks in the catalogue of non-disversible crimes is also evidenced by the described attitude. It is only about making a mood against addiction and collecting populist points with the fear of the addiction problem. It is not at all a question of solving problems or the actual concepts of reducing the addiction problem. It should also be mentioned that the decree on the division – which has already been confirmed by you today, Mr Minister – is hardly applicable to the drugs sector. They are only about creating a mood with emotionally occupied keywords like "sexual offenders" or "drug dealers" that you expect from political advantages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Their solutions are either inappropriate or counterproductive. I deeply reject such a policy because it is not in the interests of people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say a few words on another subject, which is also very important to me and which fills me with concern. This is the way in which the planned common care of parents should be introduced after divorce. I am aware that on this issue, which affects many people personally or where many know someone who is personally affected, a general solution that is satisfactory in all individual cases is not possible. But this is precisely why this question should be addressed with a high sensitivity, as it had been given by Federal Minister Michalek. Federal Minister Michalek had also made considerations of this kind that I could not fully support. However, he has tried – that is to say to him, and that was the quality of Federal Minister Michalek – to address this issue as sensitive as possible and not simply wipe out the legitimate objections, especially by women's organizations, against the common concern. But it seems that it is at least that way – as is the case with this government in general – that the common care per dictate should be introduced simply. It is completely overlooked that those parents who have an acceptable relationship with each other even after divorce have good opportunities to participate together in the child's education and to ensure that the child does not have to give up on any parent, even after the previous legal situation. Those fathers and mothers who are really interested in the well-being of their child and not in the outworking of power claims or revenge desires have also so far spoken together and found practical, acceptable solutions. In those cases, however, in which after the divorce between the former spouses no longer exists, a common care after divorce, ladies and gentlemen, brings only problems, pain and irresponsible disadvantages to the children. This is not in the sense of the child's well-being! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It must not be necessary for a parent to bear the burden, the effort, the responsibility and the Efforts have been made, the other has only the possibility of fruitification, of incorruptible speech and of psychological underpressure setting. I have the suspicion – you can improve it – that at present the idea of the association "Law of the child to both parents" is in the Ministry of Justice high again. I don't think that's a good sign. [[Abg. Steibl: There must be a good balance...!]] In any case, I warn that a primitive variant of the common care will lead to significant deterioration for the children. Federal Minister! Finally, I would like to address your greeting, which you have sent to the citizens and participants of the Feast Trade on the occasion of the festival trade that took place in Innsbruck on the weekend. There is a lot to read about in the "Falter" under the title "Legal Extremer Expert". I would like to ask you if this is true as we read it here, and I would like to read it out. [[Abg. Steibl: But we can also read ourselves!]] Quote: "In "personal", greetings read by a commercial participant, FPÖ Justice Minister Dieter Böhmdorfer praised a man as "competent and prominent", who was already classified by the German Constitutional Protection as "the most important protagonist of right-wing aspirations" in 1997. Name: Alfred Mechtersheimer", "former German Green Deputies and today gladly seen guests and speakers at the German right-wing 'Republicans' and the right-wing extreme DVU and founders of the right-wing nationalist 'Germany movement'." – And you say that would be a competent scientist! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's huge!]] I would like to confront you briefly with what this Mr Mechtersheimer gives of himself. For example, he says... [[Abg. Boy: Are you excited about that?]] I'm excited, too. It's excited! Such things make excited, that makes excited in that state! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For example, he says: "The problems existing for Germany can only be solved if immigration is partially reversed." [[Abg. Young: Yes?]] This is what this Mr. Mechtersheimer says, which according to "Falter" you call "competent and prominent" scientists. He goes on to say: "The non-cultural unsolicited guests must be forced by intelligent humanitarian methods for return or further migration." He also speaks of "German tribal population" and "illegal immigrants" and says: "A long time ago, the third great expulsion of the Germans in this century has taken place. After the... World War II is now the third expulsion from the districts (...).’ Therefore, foreigners from the host country would have to be relocated, because “without relative cultural homogeneity” there would be no democracy.” – That is the democratic understanding of Mr Mechtersheimer, and that is how it goes, so it goes! The conclusion of the German Constitutional Service, Mr Brigadier Jung – I hope that I will be right on your behalf – is that the German Constitutional Protectors find: “First, when considering more closely, his views” – that is, those of Mr Mechtersheimer – “are an expression of opposition to the democratic rule of law.” Mechtersheim’s demands are to be regarded as ‘a Palestinian attack on the fundamental elements of the liberal democratic system’. [[Abg. Young: There are reports like this with us too!]] You get excited, that's a problem! I hope, Minister of Justice, that you will distance yourself from it. By the way, what happened yesterday is certainly not a "summer theme", as Mr Bundeskanzler said.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12840	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12861	Mr President. High house! At the time when I wrote this message – you know more clearly – I was the restless conviction that Mr Alfred Mechtersheimer is a retired German Federal Defense Lieutenant – that is clearly what he is – and as one of the co-founders of the German Greens at the same time as Petra Kelly and General Bastian was politically active. My knowledge came from the peace movement. He should also have been a Member of the European Parliament. [[Abg. Steibl: Very strange!]] If your family friends later change in a way that is not recognizable to me, I am sorry. In any case, he should have behaved very correctly in the discussion himself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12924	Mr Mainoni is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e12945	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn to the current events and the adventurous argument on the part of the Greens and the Reds, I would first like to discuss a subject that I think is very interesting: the boundaries of justice, the boundaries of justice on the basis of a very new but also very topical issue. It is quite right 11 years ago that a fraud scandal has flown up, a fraud scandal that in Austria was certainly the largest economic scandal in the Second Republic, namely WEB – IMMAG – building fidelity. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do you think Rosenstingl?]] No, error, it's WEB – IMMAG – building loyalty; maybe you've heard of it. I can assure you that I am not ready to praise political competitors at this point. At the time, it was the current vice-president of the Social Democrats, Mrs Gabriele Burgstaller, who brought this scandal to light in Salzburg in 1989 when she worked in the Chamber of Labour. I don't want to praise it here, either. However, it has been an irony of fate that she was in fact responsible for the fact that two high-ranking SPÖ politicians later fell over this scandal. It was the Deputy Head of State and State Party of the SPÖ, and it was the red mayor of the capital Salzburg. Both have fallen upon this scandal. Ladies and gentlemen! The second IMMAG trial takes place today at the Landesgericht Salzburg. I call you a few numbers. It's been eleven years since this story came up. The damage is about 2 billion schilling. 10,000 investors were damaged. More than 100 million schillings have been issued by the Court of Justice for opinions. To date, a total of six first- instance convictions have been committed to a total of 42 years in prison. It is noteworthy that this judgment is still not written one year after the oral judgment. When the procedure will be concluded legally, no one dares to say. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Causa WEB is a classic case of organized crime. A German working group of judicial and police representatives defined organised crime as follows: Organized crime is the planned conduct of crimes and so on, and now it is important: or under the influence of politics, media, public administration, justice and the economy. [[Abg. Oils: Liechtenstein!]] Liechtenstein is also an appropriate example. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the main culprits of this scandal, which continues to bring processes to this day, was a former prosecutor and high political officer, namely Mr Norman Graf. In this scandal almost all judges in this causa had to declare themselves caught. In the Ministry of Finance, there are a number of officials who were participants and lecturers at seminars in Siena in the 1980s, organized by a man who is currently in charge of the second IMMAG trial in Salzburg. A former Federal Chancellor, my dear ladies and gentlemen, who had previously been a bank director, granted this WEB empire a loan of 30 million schilling, among other things, and when it threatened to become unintroduced, the funding was made through house share notes. This meant, however, that thousands of small investors were damaged when this empire broke down. Ladies and gentlemen! Profiters of this scandal are some sharks of money and real estate, especially banks, because on these detours their outsides were socialized and losses were ultimately evenly distributed among the small savers. Landeshauptmann Deputy Radlegger, who resigned from his office, received a free apartment renovation from WEB. Mayor Reschen had participations in this empire, of which he did not want to know anything – he had to resign. The editor-in-chief of the current service at the ORF in Salzburg changed to WEB a few weeks before the criminal charges against this empire. His wife had already received half a million schilling from this company. The current deputy to the editor-in-chief of a Salzburg newspaper wrote articles in the special supplement for the WEB several times, and the two Landeshauptmann alternates contributed comments each. Several officials of the Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen, were invited to eat and drink by the Managing Director of the WEB. The current head of the State Police in Salzburg, as evidenced by a letter from the main accused, received an apartment from the WEB, and ultimately the board of directors of the Salzburg banks sat at the same time in the bodies of this empire. Ladies and gentlemen! A trial against a company empire that fulfills all the crimes of organised crime, which has lasted for eleven years, whose end is not foreseeable, where first instance judgments have not even been made in writing, 2 billion schillings have been caused and 10,000 investors have been praised, among other things – these are the limits of justice! I now turn very briefly to these adventurous statements by Mr Jarolim and Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Co.. "The defamation propaganda went on glue", "thinking of a totalitarian regime" and so on and so on, and so on, there was to be heard. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's stick to the matter! And of course I share and defend the opinion of our Carinthian head of state Jörg Haider, because you are twisting the facts here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you why: The importance of the commitment, which is standardised in § 2 of the National Council's Rules of Procedure – and you should know the National Council's Rules of Procedure, as well as these paragraphs – is so great that, if the Angelobung is not or is not placed in the prescribed manner, a Member of his mandate will be lost. The legislator – in the end we, but also the author of this National Council Business Regulation – thought something about it. [[Abg. Oils: Speak it out!]] That's significant! In other jurisdictions, ladies and gentlemen, a violation of a vow to the Republic would be very likely. I am therefore not aware that Mr Van der Bellen or Mr Jarolim, or anyone who wants to order a ban on thinking, is not thinking about whether or not we take up the meaning of this vow and fulfill it with life. [[Call the SPÖ: What?]] I'm sure you won't let me ban your thinking. Please note!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13057	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13078	Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is very remarkable what comes to light in this debate. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I'll give you the right!]] With some, it may be that they may not know the legal background in all the details, but in a kind of corps spirit of their own political group, the ex-Parteiobmann's own support here. [[Call the SPÖ:Wishing!]] With others – and with those, the Minister of Justice is! – can’t be the case – I repeat: can’t be the case! – because this one knows exactly what he is talking about, just as Mr. Dr. Haider knows exactly what he is talking about, and also those statements, which have unfortunately caused a lot of attention, have not happened somehow, but were planned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As clear as your attack on the farm, he was also planned!]] Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer present: It has, of course, been the intention to create a summer theme, i.e. that a non-Bundespolitiker by provocation remains in the debate federally, and the second purpose is equally clear, namely, within the FPÖ and towards the coalition partner ÖVP, to say very clearly who indicates the tone in the FPÖ. These two objectives – provocation and clarification of the leadership role within the FPÖ – were the intention. [[Abg. Gaugg: What you know! I'd be interested in where?]] Minister of Justice! You don't know Dr. Haider just since yesterday, you also know the eclats that have existed in recent times and which have been regularly played down by the ÖVP. After the Ashandi Wednesday speech, after the "Strolchis", after the "Humping" and the "Dumping" you always said that it was all very funny. In the meantime, Mr. Dr. Khol, who has left this debate to be ostentatatively distant – I do not know if I should have taken this positive view – seems to have noticed how far this strategy of provoking goes. [[Abg. Gaugg: The cast farmer is never here in Parliament at all!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Where is the Van der Bellen?]] You know, What's the ÖVP supposed to do? This coalition has now been completed. Sanctions do not exist. You can only call all of this more funny; paid carnival speakers, all of them have already liked it. – Very funny everything, Mrs Bauer, I am afraid that this is not funny for Austria! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: I am quite touched!]] Dr. Böhmdorfer! Nor can you say that you value this statement like any statement in the field of political provocation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tell us something about your condemnation! Was the break from the house or the trouble of possession?]] It was your joint press conference. If I sit next to someone and explain something together with him or her, I assume that you have thought together what the media message is supposed to be an excuse. Qui tacet, consentire videtur! So even if you're just sitting next door, that's something. [[Abg. Gaugg: You also sit next to Mr. Feurstein!]] I don't suppose you're holding a press conference with someone. I have listened very attentively to your remarks earlier, because I have initially experienced it like my colleague Stoisits. I, too, thought that I would like to know how you are doing the office. With some of your comments, I thought: Yeah, I think that's quite remarkable. Today, however, you have said that you see a proposal in it – you will probably still be able to say that – and that you have just carried out this event together with the one who said it. [[Abg. Böhacker: I'm sitting in there with you too!]] You have also said that you want to observe what is changing in society, then you will see and, if necessary, take necessary steps. I think that's dangerous! There are always moods in society that change. I'd like to know about you: Where, then, are the limits, up to those that may change, including as Minister of Justice? For example, if a mood is built up, against people with different skin color, against people with other confessions, against any group of persons, you also say: That has changed, and now we have to change the laws!? – That can't be true! – Mrs Fekter, that you are already very far in this direction – too far! – I observe every day. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Your hatred... was also exactly the same!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think Mr. Khol sees this differently in the meantime, but he is also caught there as well. So: Watch! – How far is that supposed to go? Until beyond the borders of the European Convention on Human Rights, beyond the borders of the Constitution? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's not the point at all!]] Is it any way that moods can change and how free competition can shape opinions? Federal Minister! You said there was a free competition of political ideas. - Yes, that's right! It is in this competition of political forces, in particular, the task of the opposition, and thus a fundamental part of democracy, to practice criticism of the government! [[Abg. Boy: You're doing that right now! That's allowed!]] And last but not least, during their time of opposition, the Liberal Group has repeatedly made use of this legitimate right of opposition – very loud, very audible and then towards another government. And what is that supposed to mean? You can't sit at your press conference and say: This is a proposal that we shall continue to follow. – Please tell us: In which direction do you follow him now? What does "act contrary to the interests of the Republic" mean? What does that mean? This can be a confession to the laws and constitution. – But then it is positively regulated, then we do not have to double-doubt, because as far as the actions against the state and its interests are concerned, there is a wealth of paragraphs – and you, Dr. Böhmdorfer, are known! ==References== Section of the Criminal Code: ==References====External links==* Official website Section: ==References====External links== Section – several paragraphs each –: ==References====External links== Section: Penalties against the Federal Army, the 18th. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links==* Official website Section: Criminal acts against public peace and the 21st century. Section: Criminal acts against justice! ==References====External links== Section: Disorders of relations with abroad! All of this is under punishment and severe punishment in this country. These are, in part, even offences in which the preparatory work is already being punished! If you or anyone else in this room feel that someone – whether in this house or outside – has violated any of these provisions, then act! You don't even think that's something you can choose from. If you think that the prosecution is not acting unjustly, does not act properly, then you must become active and stop the prosecutor's office from fulfilling its duty and committing civil offences. Dr. Böhmdorfer! You know § 84 StPO. You know that. You can't say: I didn't think about it, as some people might say. You know all of this is true. If all the attacks against the State – against the Constitution, against the supreme State institutions, against the federal army, against elections, against the administration of justice, against public peace, against state power and on relations with foreign countries – if all these acts are subject to severe penalties, here and today, and you, Dr. Böhmdorfer, who even have to suspect, I ask you again: What's the point? What are the other interests of the Republic of Austria? Then it can only run out of a family sentence right – and that's why it's outrageous! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is not surprising that comparisons to a dark past come up here in such a criminal law. This is not a construction, but it reminds us of what was unfortunately wrong once in the field of this state. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How's the possession disorder?]] This is a comparison from the past, which unfortunately pushes itself and which actually goes in the direction of a family punishment right. What benefits or damages the interests of the Republic all times the citizens decide in elections – and nobody else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is true that the political programmes and those in favour of these political programmes and those in the candidate groups are in competition. There will be different ideas, such as whether the free movement of goods or the transit contract is the higher, the more important, the more worthy of protection! There are very different ideas in virtually all policy areas – in domestic policy, in foreign policy. And that must be legitimate. What is against the State, all its institutions and institutions, is being punished. The other, namely the political parties and their very different views, are in competition. And this competition is constitutional for democracy! So I repeat my question: What, Dr. Böhmdorfer, should this lead, if not a rejection of this free expression of opinion? – Then it goes in the direction of the Majesty policy, then it goes in the direction of an equation of government and state and thus a circumcision of opposition rights. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Federal President is responsible for this!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It was said today by someone – I do not know whether out of ignorance or in conscious displacement of the facts – that it must follow these provisions as well. Nor does the one who has said this seem to know the corresponding articles of the federal constitution. In fact, in the case of all the highest state institutions, from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, there is the penalty in question if the duties of office are violated. That means: In the Constitution – in Articles 142, 143, as regards the Federal Government in Article 74 and so on – it is precisely regulated what has to happen, up to the withdrawal of office, the loss of office, the charge before the Constitutional Court. All of this is regulated! Now please tell me: Where is the gap you referred to in your joint press conference with Dr. Haider? As a Minister of Justice, it is certainly not a matter of calling it a summer theme and saying: The people – more precisely: some people – may not want to be critical of the government, we say there should be a threat of punishment for it. So so salopp can't do that! You have an increased duty of care when it comes to democratic achievements when it comes to opposition rights, and even when it comes to participation in press events, in which you seem – I do not know if this is the case – have not or have not sufficiently agreed in advance – or perhaps, I do not know – what to do with it. It sounded like Mr. Dr. In the context of this press conference, Haider made a proposal to the Council. That, Dr. Böhmdorfer, no one believes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I guess. You are not so inexperienced or so naïve – you have often stood in court with Dr. Haider in your former role as his legal representative. They will also have discussed with him how statements are made. So there's no man taking you away when you say, That was such a spontaneous idea, we didn't think about it exactly. This could not be taken off by many others in this sensitive area of constitutional rights, but it is precisely yours that this is a border violation that is no longer a matter of this kind!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13383	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13404	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I think it is time to go back to work on this subject, and I think it is time for the Committee on Justice to comment on what the government is doing, and also on the budget. You can't say from my predecessor that she talked about it. I think that was a very polemic speech. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say to the SPÖ wing: In your minority report, you can't fail to talk about an unsocial savings package that's just enough to survive under the chapter "Justice". You know why we have to save: because there is a budget hole that Mr Edlinger has given us along the way. [[Abg. You wanted to rule! Don't complain now!]] – This is the truth of the SPÖ. Now allow me to address some of the points that we have raised in the government programme from the start... [[Abg. Edlinger: You have only been statistics for the past 13 years, but I was only three years of finance ministers!]] You can cover up, too. I know whether I'm telling my husband about the budget budget or not. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] - Good. In addition, this continues in the Styria. Mr. Landesrat Ressel does not speak the full truth either, and it is now not for nothing the subject of what it really looks like with the Styrian budget. [[Abg. Fischl: This is systemimmanent at the SPÖ!]] I think that we have formulated an objective, and I just want to address a few points, first of all about the law of childhood. We are in a different position to this, too, when Mrs Wurm has presented her report here. It is a matter which requires special responsibility. We express our support for the joint care of a common request, while safeguarding the child's well-being with judicial support. The concept of care includes the care and education of a child, its representation and the administration of its assets. In the optimal case, the care of both parents is perceived. As we all know, in Austria 34 percent of all marriages are currently divorced, and on average there are 18 000 to 20 000 children who are affected. It is these affected children, but also their parents who need special help and support. Therefore, we need to adapt to changing forms of life in the sense of child welfare. So that the children of divorce do not suffer from the emotional and psychological loss of a parent, the ÖVP is basically for a common care of divorced parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We try to create the possibility of common care for separated living and divorced parents. In those cases where a common care is not possible, of course, we are committed to improving the rights of information and information obligations in the case of sole care, because only a certain degree of transparency corresponds primarily to the child's well-being and creates a strengthening of children's rights. Proposing the strengthening of children's rights: The reduction of the age of 18 to 18 would make an equivalent compared to other European countries. [[Abg. Swimmling: The reduction of the electoral age would also be the same!]] However, measures must be taken in parallel, in particular in the area of youth criminal law and the maintenance advance right. For the maintenance advance, over 1.1 billion schillings have already been estimated in the Federal estimates 2000 and the effort is high, as unfortunately the number of children for whom maintenance advance has to be paid is also increasing. Another point in this area in our government programme is the extension of mediation, especially when it comes to the right to visit, with the aim of a rapid conflict settlement. The topic of "violence in the family" must and will not be excluded in the future. The Government Convention explicitly states the expansion of the protection of victims. Another important point is the area of adoption. We will consider exactly how we can improve through reforms. We, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are considering more targeted forms, because we do not want to cause unnecessary fears by devaluating actions such as your so-called Raven Mother Day. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is not at all devaluable!]] You can also see that in this context. The word 'rabenmutter' alone is already so negative that it does not correspond to the dignity of Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Binder: Who, then, calls the mothers "Rabenmütter"?]] I can also transport a subject positively; the water glass can be half full or half empty. I wonder if you, my dear colleague Silhavy, would like to call you a raven mother. I don't think so. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We are very specific about such concepts and will also ensure the necessary framework conditions in the field of adoption matter, in particular the reduction of bureaucratic barriers which make adoption clearance significantly difficult. At last, adoptions as well as nursing parenthood must find a form of appropriate recognition towards social parenthood. Finally, I would like to raise another important point from Styria, something that Mrs Landeshüfler Waltraud Klasnic, in cooperation with the Caritas, initiated months ago: For mothers who put their child away in an emergency situation, a baby valve is to be set up in the Styria, with the help of which perhaps some suffering can be eased – knowing what problems come to us with this help. I would like to see the government parties prevail and lead a survey on this sensitive subject, in which everyone will participate and in which we will also take a step.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13546	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13567	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To cite the scandal WEB – building fidelity – IMMAG as an example of the borders of justice, dear colleague Mainoni, is simply wrong. It is already an irony of history that the Freedom Party, Mr Mainoni, accepts this problem, on whose detection and reprocessing it has done nothing at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: There is the report of the Landtag on the Investigation Committee, in which free politicians have also participated. They pretended they knew it all the time. Do you know the answer to the President's question, why did they not show up? – We didn’t trust ourselves, we were afraid they were complaining! That was the reality of the Freedom Party in Salzburg! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This scandal has revealed the Chamber of Workers Salzburg – that Chamber of Workers you are attacking. [[Abg. Böhacker: He said that anyway!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's what he said!]] I would like to see the opportunity to tell you very briefly what has been done by us. We have cared for more than 20,000 victims in the Chamber of Workers Salzburg. We have conducted several processes; a part of the proceedings is still in progress, some of which we have won at the Supreme Court. We have had two additional employees to complete over two and a half years, and we are still doing the consultation. Federal Minister! Considerable, now I come back to the words of Mr Mainoni, is that the rule of law is not prepared for procedures of this dimension. I am not talking here about the borders of justice, but I see this as a political challenge, how we can effectively combat white-collar crime, asset crime, which is always connected with purpose. One more thing, Mr Mainoni, on the names of the two social-democratic politicians mentioned by you: That was very one-sided! No criminal proceedings have ever been brought against anyone. Your coalition partner, the Austrian People's Party, was primarily responsible for the former country president Dr. Zyla, at the same time a financial officer of the ÖVP, who is responsible for this scandal and for this malaise together with others. They are accused of organs of societies, business loyals and tax advisors, one of which is very close to the Free Party, as well as banks. The second procedure is now under way. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Just throw! You're a shaker!]] We have not yet received the judgment of the first instance – it will have over 1000 pages. Federal Minister! We will have to discuss this at another time, because it is about the position of private parties in the criminal proceedings. In the last legislative period, Mr Ofner has tabled a request which I personally consider to be something covered, but the fundamental problem that criminal courts refuse to recognise, even if they are represented by legal representatives, is a major problem in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now I really want to come to my real speech that I wanted to give here. Federal Minister! What does he think of as highly disputed and word-backed lawyer in lawyers' circles and now Federal Minister of Justice Dr. Böhmdorfer, Party attorney Jörg Haiders, who has been involved in a number of FPÖ proceedings for 15 years? – Let me say quite clearly: They were the one who co-founded the absurd FPÖ "Democracy Treaty" in which the non-compliance with the electoral promises of FPÖ politicians should be acquitted. – A particular disappointment, as it should now be applied, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This government policy with leading FPÖ participation is characterised by non-compliance with electoral promises. It is a policy of broken promises: how promisedly broken! This, of course, follows the question: What is the judicial policy of this Federal Minister for Justice? They, Minister Böhmdorfer, were also referred to in the media as "Haiders Man for the Legal Grobe". And I think you confirmed this yesterday at the press conference with Jörg Haider. I would like to come back to that again: Only Jörg Haider's intention to consider a possible loss of function among the people's representatives when they violate their loyalty vow and therefore the interests of their own state simply constitute an attack on democracy, freedom of expression and the free mandate of all Members. If I take up the words of Mr Mainoni, who wants to be "not forbidden to think" who wants to fulfill the "veneration with life", then I can only understand this in such a way that this is actually to be administered and that political dissidents are to be persecuted. – This is not the freedom, ladies and gentlemen, we mean. They mean it, we don't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The freedom of Haiders!]] Federal Minister! There is still much to be said about the judicial programme of the Blue-Black United Party. [[Abg. Böhacker: You take over everything from us!]] Perhaps only a few consumer policy findings: I consider that the rejection of the burden of proof and the definition of a higher standard in the implementation of EU directives is absolutely worrying from a consumer-political point of view. So far, it has been a sign of Austrian consumer law policy to introduce higher standards. I am thinking, for example, of the Part-Time Use Act, in which we have a withdrawal period of twelve days instead of ten days, as it stands in the directive. This judicial policy, which I fear, is a change in Austrian consumer law policy. That is why we reject it. We will measure you, Mr Federal Minister – I can tell you now – in your actions. When implementing the Consumer Goods Directive, we will see where you stand: whether you are an unconditional executioner of this blue-black government pact or you really deserve the name "consumer protection minister". Just a moment to finish: The 2000 budget is a savings package. You know the criticism of the judge association and the union. I just point out the problem of saving 28 judges' plans and refer to the problems that criminal justice has already faced. In view of the already often criticised slowness of criminal justice – I am again in the WEB procedure – it must be expected that this restriction can no longer be in line with the interests of the injured, but also with the accused of a rapid conviction at all. Federal Minister! Your program contains many things that you may agree with. Other areas were not addressed: for example, a reform of the criminal law compensation law or a new regulation of the private bankruptcy. This list could be continued. Finally, Minister Böhmdorfer: On the occasion of your order, you have informed the media that you want to seek consensus and secure the fundamental foundations of the rule of law. – However, with your current judicial policy, a consensus with social democracy will be difficult to reach. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13703	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13725	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard different things now: Different things that fit the budget, different things that fit into justice, and different things that were inappropriate. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimming: But go!]] As I have just learned, Mr Wurm's contribution has also been inappropriate, and we have thought it right away. Ms. Worm was misinformed and read out from a "Falter" advance to appear tomorrow. As has been pointed out in the meantime, the "Falter" has also recognized that there is false information, and the "Falter" will appear tomorrow without this relevant contribution, quoted by Mrs. Worm. - So much about Mrs. Worm's statements. [[Congratulations and oje-rufe with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is the "seriosity" of the Social Democrats!]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, on the budget debate, on the chapter on justice. As we all know – including Mr Jacky Maier – the rule of law serves to preserve and safeguard the freedom of citizens. The freedom of one – we know that – ends where it forcefully intervenes in the freedom of the other. In doing so, our group – you know that! – always prescribed the protection of the weak. In my opinion, the weak are those who are unable to take action on their own initiative or who are unable to take appropriate action on their own initiative. I therefore believe that the protection of children and young people from violence and from harmful influences of all kinds is of the highest importance and priority. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, I think that a national harmonisation of the laws on the protection of young people, as it has already called for by Rüdiger Schender, is urgently necessary. The Carinthian child protection package presented to protect children from sexual abuse and from sexual abuse should serve as a benchmark for all of us. Our Minister for Finance, Grasser, has already said this in his budget speech: Despite the necessary savings, it is possible to provide for the first time for victims of crime. A first focus will be the establishment of a well-founded trial accompaniment in court proceedings, namely a trial accompaniment for minor victims of violent offences. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the protection of the victims, the protection of witnesses is a special concern to me. We must not forget that the victims are often the only witnesses. The inclusion of mobile phones via visitors and transports in judicial prisons must have an end, as must threat letters and threats from prisoners to victims and to third witnesses. I know, of course, that the protection of witnesses has not been studied scientifically, particularly in connection with the question of the adoption of a tar identity or the question of the triggering of a witness from his previous living environment. The adoption of a tar identity is not being made professional at the moment. There are several measures: The Witnesses are occasionally questioned without a name, only under the designation of a number. They can also make recorded statements in an additional room on video, and only the voice is transferred to the negotiating room. Accommodation in a so-called conservative apartment is also rare. Of course, a complete guarding of witnesses is equivalent to a complete restriction of personal freedom of movement. In contrast, organised crime has enormous human potential. If the witness or the victim is not tangible, then pressure is simply exerted on existing family members. I am also aware that my proposal is based on the principle of immediacy. However, I believe that in certain procedures and in particular the protection of witnesses, readings of consultation information in the main proceedings should be possible. This should be similar to the counter-dictoral hearings of prosecutors and defenders. The idea should be improved in such a way that the hearing is made by the investigating judge and a three-director Senate, for example by the Council Chamber, but the defenders and prosecutors are not involved in ensuring a complete anonymity of the witness. The Council would then prove the completeness and accuracy of the Protocol. The validity of the Protocol would, of course, have to be treated analogously to a notarial certification. Ladies and gentlemen! I see opportunities to increase efficiency or save potential in the courts and in criminal enforcement institutions at the following points. Before: In order to enable efficient judicial work in the sense of a process acceleration, the appropriate spatial conditions are also required. The accommodation of several dishes in a centrally located building means for me clarity and concentration of the funds. I am thinking of a common library, of common security services, of a common canteen et cetera. It is also possible to provide "neighbourhood aid" in the case of administrative-personal bottlenecks. I therefore feel that the alliance of several courts, as is the case for example in the Palace of Justice, is useful. I think that a outsourcing of the Regional Court of Civil Law from the Palace of Justice to a less central place is inefficient. Instead, I am in favour of so-called internal departments being outsourced, but still staying close. For example, I am referring to a part of the Palace of Fairs, which is close to the Federal Ministry of Justice and near the Palace of Justice. At any rate, I support an accurate cost-benefit analysis, including the sale of so-called family silver, in this case court buildings. This is in fact a high annual rent, such as in the BG Fifenhaus, such as in the BG Döbling. The Landstraße District Court project could still be used to pull the emergency brake. It is also important to keep track of the objective of severing savings measures, savings proposals and to stop them, because it cannot be useful to ladies and gentlemen that judges and prosecutors in the explosion of the Upper Regional Court of Vienna be stopped to exchange their light bulbs themselves, to accept the curtains themselves and to have them cleaned. – Many of you know that the rooms in the Palace of Justice are five to six meters high. Structural measures could also lead to savings by partial privatisation of the operation of criminal enforcement agencies. In the U.S., partially-privatized penitentiaries have been operating since the beginning of the 1980s. In Australia, in the UK, in France, this has been followed in the following years. [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] In 2004 the first partially privatized prison institution in Germany will be opened by means of the operation of the Hessian Justice Minister Christian Wagner. The potential for savings lies in the considerable savings potential of the company and also in a lower relapse rate, as according to an investigation in Florida, the return rate for private prisons is 17 percent – and, in contrast, 24 percent for public prisons. Of course, we are not seeking the number of prisoners there, as nearly 2 million people are in prison in the United States. [[Abg. Oillinger: I would mean that too!]] Penalty in private living room with electronic Monitoring is already being applied in various countries – including the USA, Holland, Sweden and cetera – and will soon be practised in Switzerland. However, in my view, this kind of punishment goes beyond the original idea of the execution of the sentence. Summary: We all know that the judicial body is well funded itself, and I am sure that these measures will lead to further efficiency improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13825	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13847	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For me personally, Dr. Böhmdorfer was politically unwritten at the time he took office. Personally, he was certainly not, not professionally, but at least politically. I think the past – with him it is not quite that long – 100 days have quite specified this impression. Let's get it together. First: Minister! I have become quite clear to me, especially since yesterday, that you – unfortunately! – probably on the basis of personal affections, personal obligations, a certain relationship of trust with Mr. Landeshuptmann of Carinthia, inside politics, pursue a course beyond the tradition of Austrian Justice Ministers. They follow a course that unfortunately leads back to a very dark past. It is a course that leads back to a past that must be discussed in order to prevent what was yesterday in the framework of the ORF and individual media from Carinthia and what is being discussed here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! The problem is that you say today: After my goodness, I didn't mean it when I said you had to think about it, which means what Haider is proposing. – You, Dr. Böhmdorfer, are in principle a political person, although you were a political card for me before. But as a political person, it must be noticed immediately that justice must not in any case resort to the right of family punishment. This is a very clear Rubikon breach with regard to serious judicial policy. Minister! I was very disappointed because I had a rather neutral opinion of you in advance. - That's the first one. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can tell anyone that you were neutral!]] – I have formulated this very personally. It disappointed me. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I really don't believe you were neutral!]] - I didn't say anything about him. Secondly, to the judicial side of your activity. In this respect, you have put the cards on the table, so to speak, you are no longer an unwritten sheet. It is completely unacceptable to you, and it is politically correct if you are committed to a bourgeois programme of justice policy. That's not a question! We should then discuss this politically. The fact that we sometimes and more often think differently will also be clear to you. This bourgeois program, as you explained in part, has for me, subjectively, some of the eating-bourgeois notes that I am still preparing repeatedly. The third point, which is still rather short today, concerns its third field of action, which is the field of consumer policy in addition to the internal and judicial policy. Minister! So far, I've only seen white spots. You have not in any way – except you have co-negotiated the Government Declaration or the Coalition Agreement in this area – expressed your views on consumer policy, put no key programmatic points, did not give any responsibilities, articulated certain objectives, or put certain attitudes on the table in any political form. Today, you said consumer protection was important. - After now! Since you are the party of the so-called little man or, if you make it happy and nice, the little people, you have to just engage in this area, and therefore you have to put new marks in this area. As the prime minister of justice responsible for consumer protection, they should show a clear handwriting that brings more rights to small consumers. I'll tell you: The challenges are enormous because they are given by liberalisation trends. In the various areas – whether it be in the telecommunications sector, whether in the electricity sector or in the gas sector – it is always the small consumer and the small consumer, who do not get to the same extent as large customers. Minister! In the sense of the programmatics of your party you would have to jump in for the "small" men or for the "small" people. My previous speaker also suggested: You should have taken on a consumer protection task already, and you would have had to claim for Austria the standards within the EU that we have already achieved and ensure that these standards spread across the EU or, on the other hand, insist that EU directives be implemented in a timely and, above all, fully. That's also a challenge. The third aspect of consumer protection policy is closely linked to your judicial area, which concerns economic crime. Mr Minister, you will certainly know that the public prosecutors in this area are currently under-equipped. There it is also in the sense of the programmatics of your party – namely for the "small" people to make politics for the "small" man – to finally finally provide for a proper equipment, finally to ensure the appropriate financial, human resources so that it cannot guide the big ones and the little ones have to look through their fingers again, just as it was unfortunately the case in various processes in the past. Please use this as a priority field of activity! You may also know this from your past as a lawyer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, on the last aspect, which has to do with consumer protection, but which has always been an independent and enjoyable area of justice and legal policy, in the area of housing law, in the area of rental law. You have not yet expressed yourself in any way, although your predecessor has inherited a very ambitious project, namely the more transparent design, the harmonisation and, in some cases, the necessary harmonisation in this legal jungle, which is truly unique throughout Europe. We have outdated systems in this area, we have counter-regulations that are impenetrable, so that many simple people are not able to understand these legal conditions only in a way. There you should search through and go to work entirely in the sense and purpose of your predecessor. But I have not heard of you in this regard. You haven't played this card yet, even in this area you're a "white spot". There will be a committee next week, and it will certainly be discussed at the beginning of June in the plenary session. Then it is high time that you confess color, color in relation to a committed housing and judicial policy, which brings something not only to the rulers, who can partly and partly afford it, but also to the individual, for the average members of the population. I am curious about the direction in which your so-called bourgeois legal programme goes: whether it goes towards large-scale, large-scale industrial or towards average-citizens, that is to say, towards those people who at least give you as a party to represent by the liberals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13911	The next speaker was Mr Gahr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e13933	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The objective and task of the Austrian judicial policy must also be to act in the future in a serious and credible way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, it may be possible to question the efficiency and practicality of justice. The aim is to achieve improvements and optimizations in the judicial system. We need a stable, democratic system to help and serve citizens. Mr. Minister! We are pleased that you assured the Committee on Budgets that, despite the tight budgetary situation, the quality of the case law will be maintained in Austria. The field of justice has a high level of human resources both in criminal proceedings and in judges. The promise that there will be no personnel savings at judicial offices and prosecutors is positive. Critics on the part of the opposition, which doubt the objectives and improvements that this government has set itself, are not credible. Rather, the current government will prove that it is serious about judicial policy and is willing to implement real reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Together with a clear approach and step by step, we will make justice more civil-friendly. In the Coalition Convention, the strengthening of democracy has a high priority. ÖVP and FPÖ will do everything they can to increase the proximity of citizens to the Justice Ministers, which I believe are very cautious. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will work in the team with judges and judges in the field of justice to address weaknesses and force strengths. A strong democracy, as has been called for in this House several times, must protect weak and minorities – too many live below the poverty line – and recognize internal and external dangers. And I believe that cooperation between justice, home affairs and foreign ministers is very important. The diversity of social forces must be maintained. Nor should the independence of the courts be doubted. In order to secure the principles of democracy, this government has set itself a number of objectives: to advance an objective law on the personnel policy of the Federal Service. In this respect, a lot has happened in the past, but it needs to be further worked on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the introduction of the selection of letters for federal, regional and municipal elections: Ladies and gentlemen! We are obliged to think about falling voting participation, because this issue is one that concerns all of us. We must address and adapt to the mobility and flexibility of citizens. For example, the election participation at the AK election in Tyrol could be increased by large mobilization, by means of a letter election from 30 to 60 percent. I would also like to quote from a newspaper article in which it says: Choice without voters. Landtagswahl in Thuringia: 45.7%, rural elections in North Rhine-Westphalia: 56 percent. Bad times for citizens. Politics as a narrow bundle of services for which you pay a lot anyway. Alarming data that politicians should give once to think. - Quote. In future, citizens will be entitled to a referendum by popular desire of at least 15 percent. The reform of social security is also being promoted by this government. Service orientation needs to be strengthened. The strengthening and strengthening of civil rights with a strong public prosecutorship is planned. In this context, it should be made clear again that no one wants a premeditation of the judges. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This was to be read in a press release by the deputy chairman of the SPÖ Constitutional Committee, Deputy Herbs. Above all, I was imponed by the SPÖ People's solicitor Christa Krammer. She did not like to be represented by her party partners as "government-strupp". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Volksanwälte become and must continue to remain independent, as well as the courts. Also in the government programme negotiated with SPÖ, control and optimization bodies have been planned. It is therefore incomprehensible why such recent statements have been published; they are not credible. What are we finally talking about and finally about in strengthening citizens' rights? – Any citizen affected by procedural delays should be able to lodge a complaint with the public prosecutor's office. The public prosecutorship should be given the opportunity – of course without interference in the case law – to initiate, where appropriate, a disciplinary procedure or to submit requests for deadlines. Because of my professional practice, I claim that it is important to speed up procedures. For businesses in the economy in particular, rapid process management is important in order to be able to make decisions again. Citizens constantly regret the conscious or unnecessary length of procedures. Even OGH President Felzmann proposed an internal control body in order to avoid, in particular, delays in proceedings and delays in making judgments. The aim must be to meet the citizen with more democracy. Judges and judicial administration should find a practical and civil-friendly way, in line with the public prosecutor's office. Mr. Federal Minister! This budget provides a good starting position, but is linked to a great expectation to all of us. Together we will tackle the great tasks in the interests of the citizens of our country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14048	The next speaker was Mrs Huber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14069	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker was concerned with democracy; he was concerned about democracy. – I have to say what concerns me and many other people in our country is precisely this issue, and I therefore share this concern with them. In the light of yesterday's and today's discussion and in the light of what is slowly taking forms – if, for example, the proposal is made seriously that critics should be mouthed by sanctions, i.e. that family should be punished – I ask you, Minister: Who, then, determines what is for the good of the Republic? Who then evaluates the different ideas of the different political parties? And I wonder, Where does justice develop, and where does this country develop? What also makes me worried – even when the new government was praised – fits in with this scheme: The division called into question the largest reform project in the last 25 years. ==References====External links== January 2000 in force, i.e. for four months. But already now, four months after entry into force, it is to be thrown back, thrown back. I am glad that there is at least agreement that there will be a survey on this subject before any setbacks and changes, because I consider the public discussion, the re-hearsing of experts and, above all, the evaluation of experiences in this field very, very important. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It is true that not everything is suitable for the Diversion – but constantly to assume that judges and prosecutors, i.e. those who constantly have to do with this matter, do not have the experience, do not have the fingertip feeling for where a disversion would be meaningful and correct and where it would be wrong, I think – that is what I would like to call it – not appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am the most important victim in this area. And I wonder, What are the benefits of the victims in these cases? . I have been given the figures from the intervention agency of my district. This results from: Between 1996 and 1999 1 406 cases of the division were assigned. And the balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen! In the adult sector, it was 89 percent of cases that were done positively. In only 11 percent of cases, criminal proceedings had to be filed. And in the youth sector it looks even more positive: 94 percent of cases were carried out positively; only 6 percent of cases came to a criminal request. If one lets one tell the cases of the people who carry out this extrajudicial act, then one becomes clear: In this conflict settlement, the victim has a very central role to play with his damage, his inconveniences and also his pain. The perpetrator has to deal with the victim. In fact, many perpetrators become aware of what shock, what pain, which inconveniences were associated with these acts for the victim. The perpetrator is also responsible for the victim. The preparedness for reparation – that is, all those who work in this field – is unevenly higher if the perpetrator has to deal with his victim. And all our concerns, ladies and gentlemen, must be to fight crime and, above all, violence in all its manifestations. If I look at the relapse rate, which is only half as high as in general criminal proceedings – i.e. half of the crimes of at least 90 percent of cases treated by the Diversion – I mean, pushing back, reversing the Diversion means, in truth, pushing back and reversing the victim protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14144	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14165	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to those, I would like to say, coffee readings of the greens, which remind me of some kind of persecution, I would like to say, in fact, only the following: I find it extremely unfortunate that political diffamation has now taken place in the area of justice, in an area in which I think it has nothing to look for. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] It seems to be only left-wing in the area of justice in Austria, only left-wing, but not right-wing, not even to be remembered! And it's hard for me to stay real. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would now like to deal with a subject in which there has so far been a considerable degree of agreement between the parties represented in Parliament, namely the area of rights for children and the protection of children. When the UN Convention was ratified in Austria in 1990, it was still thought that the Austrian legislation covered this matter. One has then noticed that this is not the case, and in 1992 – at the time I was already in this House – one decided unanimously to review this matter, which should serve to adapt Austrian children's rights, in the direction of strengthening children's rights. There was an expert report on this in 1993. I took it with me today, and I wanted to show this comprehensive report to the Minister of Justice. This comprehensive report and the work on it have ultimately led to a joint motion for a resolution of all five parties represented in Parliament at the time. This proposal comprises six pages, is very detailed and, from today's point of view, has made a change in certain areas. But still their vast areas of completion. This refers in particular to the common care we always have for the liberals and which I have been speaking for many, many years. Although the issue of common care has been addressed in a child law draft in the past legislative period, I already take the view that, especially in view of the increasing divorce rate for each parent, one should be happy with each parent, who also confesses to common care after divorce. Even with non-married couples, i.e. with life partners, one should be happy about this and not introduce additional obstacles, as was thought in the last draft. [[Abg. May. Prammer: You can do that if you want!]] It is, unfortunately, the case that there are very many cases in particular in the area of divorce, where there are disputes in which there can be no common care, because there are custody disputes, Mrs Prammer. [[Abg. May. Prammer: And that's where you want the joint care?- Oh, my God!]] There are even cases in which children are used as "arms" and psychological violence is exercised on children. Unfortunately, it is often the case that one parent, in the case of separation, tears the child in his own hands and unlawfully withdraws from the other parent's care by taking the child to another place, hiding it, or even taking it abroad. There are even lawyers – I think you should say that openly – who use the child practically as a "arm" against the other partner. These are the cases where there is no such agreement, Mrs Prammer. [[Abg. May. Prammer: And where there is agreement, it is already happening today!]] No, Mrs Prammer, it is not possible today, at least in our view. It may be that you are satisfied, but we are not satisfied with the current legal situation, Mrs. Ex-Minister Prammer! She's not satisfactory. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: You want the women in dependence! That's your goal!]] Today's law is not satisfactory in the area of criminal procedure. The Criminal Change Act 1998 has probably brought improvements in the area of protection against child abuse, but there have also been some important areas left open. It is simply too little for me if the criminal framework for sexual abuse is six months, if you know that the relapse rate for these offenders is up to 80 percent. It is simply too little for me to say in such cases even today due redundancies. I also advocate – and follow a recommendation from the Children's and Youth Prosecutors' Office here – that if death strikes, criminal offenders will even face life imprisonment. If even Mr Jarolim, who is rarely on the same argumentation track with the liberals, has once called a lifelong supervising of these perpetrators disputable – in Great Britain this is already implemented – then I have to ask: What is against the fact that we are also approaching this area in the near future? I would also like to extend the advertising obligation. This is not only a recommendation of the liberals, but also, for example, of the Oberlandesgericht Innsbruck. I think that we should once again try to achieve a common approach in this area, Mrs Prammer, so that children are protected prophylactically or prophylactically, neither psychological nor physically, so that we also improve the legal measures for the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14282	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14303	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present judicial budget is a real disappointment, as is the entire budget presented by this Federal Government. There are savings in the wrong place. The savings in the staff sector, especially in the case of judges, fulfil, as is already known, primarily the purpose of making the company tax gifts, favouring large farmers, and also giving care and family benefits to those who do not need it, because they are rich and wealthy anyway. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sit down! Not enough!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Answer a question: What is a big farmer and what is a small farmer?]] However, because this budget unfortunately expects a worse functioning of justice, the blue and black Federal Government is trying to sidetrack this problem, including in the area of justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the judicial system, distractions often mean dealing with demands made at the beer table and writing them into the government programme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Nothing else is required, for example, if it is required to extend the possibility of an institution for dangerous relapses also in relation to property offences. This is a claim that is not justified in substance and rejected by all experts. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Not for nothing, after the announcement of the blue-black government programme in the field of justice, Mr. Universitätsprofessor für Punishrecht, Frank Höpfel, spoke of a return to the old German revenge thinking. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's mouth!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! That I may not be misunderstood: I'm very sure you're dealing with what's being spoken at the main table. This is very important in order to retain the so-called ground liability as politicians, and it is important to take seriously every expression of a citizen's opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a difference, however, whether one is talking to people, dealing with their opinions, perhaps also trying to change some opinion by arguments, or simply writing a demand from the tribal into the government programme and making it a government policy. – So there is a huge difference between these two possibilities. This is the dilemma of judicial policy, as is also the case with Klubobmann Khol and the Justice Officer Fekter and so on in the FPÖ: One does not deal objectively with the problem, one does not deal objectively and analytically with the solution of a problem and does not try to reach it in dialogue with those concerned, with experts and other possible solutions, but one simply takes a keyword, such as "sexual offenders" or "drug dealers", and it needs to be transformed into any demand that certainly sounds good for some at first sight, but is without any regard to whether the demand can also bring a solution, whether it is suitable or whether it is perhaps not even counterproductive and the opposite of what one actually wanted. This form of signal legislation, ladies and gentlemen, is particularly to be rejected in the field of criminal law. In this context, I should like to quote a person who does not belong to my family community, but who has given a very correct opinion, namely former ÖVP judge Dr. Michael Graff. He feared, after becoming aware of the blue-black government's judicial programme, that "by appealing to people's outrages and revenges, something should be achieved politically" and feared – according to Michael Graff, your former judge! - "a signal regulation". Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, the Tyrolean ÖVP head of state Weingartner has also expressed himself, who said that criminal law is "expression of social will and inappropriate for political signals". Ladies and gentlemen! We should all be concerned about keeping people in our country as low as possible as possible by crime, combating crime as best we can – and not about making moods with cheap keywords, where the one who uses such keywords very often knows very well that what he is talking about is nonsense. In principle, we reject such a policy and deeply reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also reject, ladies and gentlemen, that the newly introduced division, to which ÖVP has also become fully known, is immediately abolished or drastically reduced. And we also reject the fact that the People's Procuratorate is being turned into a control body on independent justice. This does not mean, however, that we do not also know the abuses in justice and seek solutions to eliminate them. We need to look for ways to speed up procedures in justice in order to prevent delays. However, by the way proposed by the government, the child would be thrown out with the bath, and it would not bring any procedural acceleration at all. Nor would it be that a party to the proceedings would act practically with the People's Procuratorate in the back and not the others, which would also violate the principle of arms equality. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal, like many others, is completely unforgivable and has only been borne in mind by this government: This government also wants to control as much as possible in the field of justice, it wants to go as far as possible, it does not really want any area in society that does not act according to its will. Mr. Federal Minister! Until yesterday, I actually thought that you could show a certain willingness to dialogue and at least partly stand in the tradition of the previous judicial policy, a tradition in which the technical argument counts more than the prejudice based on emotion. Since yesterday, Minister of State, I have been deeply disappointed by you. Since you explained the idea of Haider regarding the loss of functionality and persecution of politicians for "safely persecuted" and – literally! – You, Minister Böhmdorfer, have lost much of your democratic reputation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Never, Mr Minister, can criminal law again be misused to persecute dissidents with a rubber paragraph and to throw them into prison! A proposal made yesterday by you and Haider will only be executed in dictatorships and authoritarian states and systems. I call on you, Mr Minister, to reconsider this position taken by you yesterday and to distance yourself from all democratic proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14425	Before giving the floor to the last speaker, I should like to make the following statement: I have an extract from a debate by Mr Haigermoser today. Deputies! They are making the accusation of "cadaver obedience", to the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. - I don't think that's very appropriate. In addition, you have said to Mr Parnigoni: "We know the story... when you needed a colleague to vote as she should."– I'll give you a call for order. As the last speaker, Mr Oellinger spoke. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14459	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I found the execution of my colleague, Mr Stoisits, in which she explained how she felt her speech of accession, Mr Böhmdorfer, was very courageous – that was not at today's meeting, but at the time, but today she has explained it again. I can still recall this meeting, because many of what Terezija Stoisits gave you, Mr Federal Minister, after this speech of entry, I felt, but, unlike Terezija Stoisits, I did not consider it so positive. With me, I would say, a portion of greater distrust was there, but also I – I have to admit – could not escape the impression: There is a Minister of Justice, who comes from the Freedom Party, but who puts his understanding of office in such a way that one does not have to feel, that one is suppressed by free politics justice. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you did not tell him earlier!]] Mr Federal Minister, you made a remarkable statement today in connection with the statements made yesterday by the simple member of the Freeman Jörg Haider and with your own statements. You held a press conference yesterday with a member of the Liberal and Carinthian head of state – and I ask myself afterwards: Why is it that you, Federal Minister, join a member of the Liberals in a press conference? – and the liberal member then explains coram publico, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Gaugg: After all, he is the head of the state of Carinthia!]] Sanctions are on the agenda! It is only a few days or weeks ago that Mr. Westenthaler and Mr. Khol have explained to all of us with English tongues: No, no, no, no, nobody argues that you are serious patriots – that was their explanation – no one here in this House wants to agree, but could we not do the shoulder closure? But when you heard the reaction of the opposition to it, just a few days and weeks later, the threat of sanctions comes, a very large Sanctions Threat! I would remind you that Mr Mainoni, in his speech today, has spoken about the loyalty of the Members and said that we need to take a closer look at whether everyone really takes each of these promises very seriously. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Thought! Think! – You obviously have a hard time!]] That is what I am about, ladies and gentlemen, where I would ask you to go back a few weeks. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] Today – and with this I would like to start this review – Mr Federal Minister said: Neither promotion nor braking is on the agenda. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Thought hurts!]] I remind you that just a few weeks ago Mr. Haider – even then he was – but a few weeks later also Mr. Schmid, who is sitting here today, opposite, first, the Federal President and, second, the then still in office, but who is parting of the Federal Chancellor’s office – was already with you, Mr. Schmid, after he was divorced from office, at Haider it was before – the accusation of the treason and high treason into the political debate. This has caused me to do so, since it is not a small accusation, which there is raised against a Federal President or a Federal Chancellor or, for my part, only one party chairman to look at and look up the criminal code: What, then, is the record of the state treason or of the high treason? I don't think I need to explain this to you, but I'm still trying in short words: § 242 High Treason: "Whoever undertakes to violently or by threat of violence separate the Constitution of the Republic of Austria... must be punished with imprisonment from ten to twenty years." - That was the treason. I thought that this could not have meant either Mr. Haider or Mr. Schmid that the Federal President or the outgoing SP party president and former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany committed high treason. Then I looked at the treason of the country. This is stated in § 252: "Whoever a foreign power or a super- or intergovernmental institution a state secret" – please match Mr Fekter, perhaps you do not know! – "to make known or accessible, be punished with imprisonment of up to ten years." [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's all... already said today!]] As a note on the edge, it was added that Abs. 3 states that "constitutional facts are those which reveal efforts to eliminate the democratic, federal or legal structure of the Republic of Austria, its permanent neutrality..." [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: § 242 "High Treason" has two paragraphs! – This is a mistake, Mr President!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Well, we could also discuss what you're trying all the time! – End of note. The fact is: Neither state nor high treason are what you have accused the two gentlemen, the Federal President and the climate. They have not been subject, not content of the accusation. With that, I'm with what was said today. I must say, Minister of the State, that my eyes and ears were opened to me when I heard today in the debate, which in the Nazi era formed the record of the betrayal of the people. That is what Mr Haider meant, and, Mr Schmid, that is what you meant. You did not mean the treason of the country, not the treason – not both gentlemen, neither Haider nor Schmid – although you said "land treason" and "high treason", but you meant and accused what is described as a crime of the "domestic treason" in a Nazi paragraph! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You know that!]] I read this provision to you again: "If, as a German abroad, an untrue or grossly upset claim poses a serious danger to the reputation of the German people, it will be punished with a breeding house." [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. What a terrible thing!]] – Replace "German" with "Austrian", then you have exactly what Mr Gaugg is nodding for: Yes, that is clearly meant! [[Mr Haller, Dr. Pumberger and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] That's exactly what it means, and that's what Mr. Haider is talking about: It is obviously a question of reintroducing a political section which, as a offence, has the very subject of what the Nazis have meant by "the betrayal of the people"! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is your intention to discuss the sanctions against those who do not comply with the loyalty vow, from the Member up to the President of the Federal Republic – he has also been addressed –. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You were a little too long in the cafeteria today!]] Behind that is the accusation that the Federal President of this Republic does not comply with the Constitution! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: We'll make an alcotest!]] Federal Minister! I'll be back with you. You said: Do not promote or brake. [[Call to the liberals:Alkotest!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: sat in the cafeteria for too long!]] – Where, Mr. Federal Minister, have you been in these last weeks? Mr Schmid's speech fell into your term of office, as did the recent statements, up to Mr Kabas' untimely statements: Where were you in this debate when it came to not saying "promoting or slowing", but simply and grippingly entering the plan as the Minister of Justice of this Republic and saying: That is the end of this inconceivable debate. End with the attempt of sanctioning, the attempt to slander the political authorities of this Republic! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We would have expected this, Mr Justice Minister, in recent weeks from you, but not the attempt to launch a new debate, which the Federal Chancellor calls a "opportunity summer theme" – we need something to discuss – with the aim and content of bringing sanctions against Members to the political debate, up to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. That is the stated objective, and it is also taken as a quote by Mr Haider! If you, Mr Federal Minister, do not promote or slow down, then you are not in place!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14671	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14693	Ladies and gentlemen! I was here in the hall almost during the entire judicial debate, and I heard the beginning of this debate with great expectation. Dr. Jarolim has said that in the field of justice policy, the issue has always dominated, and I thought that the major problems of justice in Austria will really be addressed. For this purpose, such a discussion offers the possibility. I was disappointed very soon, however, because Mr. Dr. Jarolim failed in his appeal himself because he opened up what subsequently broke free, an enormous polemic against the Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] What he introduced then the others of the opposition continued with vehemence. They have blamed the Minister for the abuse of democracy and so on, although this Minister, Dr. Böhmdorfer, in his speech of entry, has provided information in a unique way. He has explained how he stands as a democratic rule of law, how he stands for democracy at all, how he wants to continue the tradition of his predecessors. He has made a democratic confession, and yet Mr. Van der Bellen has gone here today and has linked Dr. Böhmdorfer to the laws of the Reich of the National Socialist era. That's really a scandal, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. What a terrible thing!]] Mr Van der Bellen! You know, I'm really disappointed! [[Call to the SPÖ: Really? That's for Van der Bellen!]] They always sunk in the light of being the honorary professor who always very objectively evaluates things. In reality, however, you have done nothing other than accuse the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria. Nothing else you did! They presented it as if Dr. Böhmdorfer in Austria would reintroduce the National Socialist Laws again. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With the lowest arguments you operate, even your subsequent speakers, but you have given the start shot. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: Where's your humanity? Where's your humanity? Does that end with the political opponent? I'm really asking you that. I ask you: Are not political dissidents for you to take seriously people, people who can be accused of anything that can be accused of re-acting in the Republic of Austria? Mr Van der Bellen, I would really review my opinion in your place. That would be urgently necessary. But we know that's your strategy: the liberals always push into the right corner, push into the right-hand corner and burn them up the punches of National Socialism. But I'm telling you: Your strategy won't go on! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] You also belong to it, because you always clap the greens, no matter how deep the charges are! I would also like to say that to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Take note, look at what is happening in this Parliament! Time and again – permanently! – make us the accusation that we are really criminals by insinuating that we are re-acting. And that's the scandal! I really want to ask you: Check with you if you are real democrats, look at them! Everything that doesn't fit your mind is criminalized. Everything! You must not have any other political opinion, otherwise you will be given the appropriate punch. Mrs Stoisits, who is here today, who has spoken of the big, objective judicial policy, has not long called for all the liberals to be subject to a 20-year imprisonment. Yes, please, where is your democratic understanding? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] You can read that in the minutes. You were not yet in Parliament at the time, you do not need to speak with me at all, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have an unheard-of need for recovery as far as democratic thinking is concerned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Take note of the following: Not everything that is not left is also forbidden or evil, and just as it is allowed on the left, must also be allowed to the right in Austria. We shall not be hindered by you in our policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14792	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mrs. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, before mentioning Mr. Dr. Johannes Jarolimge, I would like to point out that in this situation it seems quite appropriate to moderate the mood. Obviously, it is already so far back in the individual calls that we are just before the calls for order. I believe that we should all try to get a session as properly as possible over the stage. I therefore ask both the speakers and the callers to ensure that the dignity of this House and in particular the dignity of the persons addressed are not violated. Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14819	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! At the beginning of this discussion, we tried to point out, of course, the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, and asked to be aware of the situation in which we are currently in, which situation we have, not only in Austria, but in Europe as a whole, on the basis of this discussion, on the basis of these statements made yesterday by a head of state, and what reactions can be considered appropriate and sensible for the country, ladies and gentlemen. But I have the impression that you are still not quite aware of this. The starting point of the discussion was a statement made by Mr Haider at a press conference together with the Federal Minister for Justice. With all the objectivity required – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic shows himself very amused to my amazement here, he shows serenity; I think one can also express a point of view through Mimik, and you allow me to say that I can by no means put this discussion into a connection with your current mimik – in other words, with all due objectivity, I believe that the situation is much more serious. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Your mimik also speaks volumes, I have told you this before!]] It has organised a press conference to the head of state, he has put aside or invited the Federal Minister for Justice and has put a demand there that follows something he has already indicated in the past. I've already read this to you this morning, but I think that apparently not all really took note of it, so I read a sentence again. Mr Bundeskanzler, perhaps it is possible to see the situation a little more seriously and not to say: That's a summer theme, we really don't have a problem! In this way, one also assumes that this immense approach leads to something to which it must necessarily lead, namely that there is also a sense of concern abroad. [[Call to the Freeman: This fits your strategy!]] It's not obvious that in a country that has such a past, someone says: We want Members to be punished who think differently than we imagine. And if you say, Well, we really want to protect the Constitution!, you can of course argue that if you are strictly committed to the text. But you do not do that, ladies and gentlemen, Haider does not, but you need to read between the lines. It has been declared here today that there is a wealth of criminal offences. You can do this not only with ridicule, take note of this, the situation is quite too tense and too decisive! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] If you are concerned that we have our reputation abroad to restore our reputation, that what you claim to be sanctions against Austria, but essentially it is sanctions against members of the government, then we are asked to deal with the situation in an appropriate manner. These statements by Haider can't simply be taken on the light shoulder, and you can't make them ridiculous either. Mr Bundeskanzler, I can therefore ask you to respond accordingly to the situation. Above all, one cannot say: It's a summer theme, it doesn't matter to me. It's a summer theme, we laugh at Haider demanding that dissidents be prosecuted. – This is not to laugh, Mr Bundeskanzler, and I would ask you to put all that you always try to explain into the scales. You always say that you are committed to this country, and I ask you to do the same. The risk potential, which lies in this statement by Haider and also in your statement, Mr. Federal Minister – I will come back to it again – is explosive. I would ask you to take note of this and make a statement worthy of the situation and the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! A Mr Haider, who made the statement in question yesterday, declared in 1991: "Whoever sends himself away from the political line must go. That's where you have to show hardness. I also don't expect him to give me his hand when I lie down." - Quote. That's what Haider said, and he also raised the demand for criminal offences. According to criminal acts, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you can't take that away! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you actually give your speeches twice, Mr. Colleague? You could have done that in writing! The Ordinary Caller Number One!]] And if you say you want to act in the interest of this country, then it will be no different than to deal responsibly with it and not simply to call in between. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And if such a person then raises such a demand and the Federal Minister who sits next to it – and I can personally put myself into your situation – then more or less is required – even if you may not have known what is going to happen: If you say or say anything about it, I understand that the tension is very great. But nothing less, Mr Federal Minister, can we not say in this situation that is something we can think about that is a basis for discussion. And it can't be said by a German chancellor that this is a summer theme, ladies and gentlemen. Here the impression arises that the problem arising from such a statement is actually taken as an excuse for our problems abroad becoming even greater, and if this is communicated accordingly by you and you are now making other such statements, then it is probably no longer obvious that you are using such discussions to make use of such democratic political scandals in order to point out domestically. And that can't be it. Please be aware that this is about our credibility, our understanding of democracy and the rule of law. This must not be a playground for short-term political success. I'm allowed to go back to They call on you, too, Federal Chancellor, to act accordingly and not to play down the situation, to present the situation as a whole and to say what is to be said in such a situation. Mr Federal Minister for Justice, I believe that you too are again required in this regard, and may therefore address this appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14903	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14924	Mr President. Members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! The course of the debate, not only the subject of the debate, also reveals a lot about the process. Mrs Partik-Pablé said with the throes of outrage that one had been accused in an unfair way of the Liberal Group or the current Minister of Justice "re-acting". – I look in all forms: Read the logs, remember! No one did that. No one did that! That's exactly your style, how you're twisting, how you did that at the time very skillfully as an opposition fraction, so according to the motto: We, the poor, are always going to all of them, where everyone is always standing up with heavy verbal laps, where we didn't actually do anything. And then, in a very legitimate criticism, you assume that something quite different has been said! This has not been said, but I will tell you once again what the accusation is: The Minister of Justice has understood it very well, and I would also like to tell you once again if you have not yet understood it: It is all that is directed against the State, against the State institutions, against the institutions of the State, such as the judicial administration, the federal army and the state service as such, being punished. That's being punished, and it's also... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Petrovic, a question: Why did Dr. Van der Bellen quote the Reichsgesetz?]] – Wait a little while, be Not so impatient, Mrs. Partik-Pablé! All of this has been punished, and the Minister of Justice knows just as it is known by the head of state of Carinthia, who has worked in relevant professions for many years. The violation of the oath is also subject to sanctions, namely, with regard to national councillors – you also know that in your group – in accordance with Article 141 para. 1 lit. c B-VG. And so our question was: So if the treason, the treason, the treachery, all that is being punished, so if sanctions are required for something else, a damage to interest, then it can only be a family law, then you protect the interests of the government against the opposition – and that is undemocratic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] This is not re-acting, it is not a violation of the Prohibition Act, but it is a verbal attack on one of the most important institutions in democracy, namely the interplay between opposition and government, by pointing out a criticism of the government and the rulers under the cover of defence of interests. We are outraged by this, and that is what awakens reminiscences to the Nazi period, because such a right of thought – and that is something quite different from the prohibition of re-activating, and that is something other than the prohibition law, and you as a lawyer know only too well – is in reality the subject of indignation, and such a right of thought there was not only in the Nazi State, but also in other totalitarian states and under totalitarian regimes. It is conscious – not because you believe or because Mr. Böhmdorfer believes that this will come tomorrow – that is really, Mr. Federal Chancellor, as provocation for summertime so that there is a topic. It's just such an attack that you can't go beyond it either. I found something else very remarkable, because the second goal of this attack – I have already said it – was also to clarify the leadership role within the FPÖ. For me, the debate was very interesting, and I do not know whether I should be pleased about it – it is too much – but at least I take note that Klubobmann Khol was largely not present in this debate and did not speak out on this issue either. I think, yes, I assume that his attitude on this question would be a clear one.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14962	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e14977	There will be other occasions in this long summer, and, Dr. Khol, there will be the point where also They can no longer keep silent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15008	Mr Dr. Ofner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It is not easy to get used to the opposition role after 30 years of government, but one you have recognized, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, and I do not blame you at all: [[Abg. Rider: That's all fad!]] Parliament is the field of opposition, and working with polemics from early to evening is your good right, and you benefit abundantly from it. You've got to see, that's not hemical, that's it. While the Federal Government is doing its government business for the benefit of the Republic, use the time for your polemics. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, in the case of all the real or played indignation or distress that you are out there, you must not be completely forgotten, which has been produced by your side in this context, when it comes to the violence of the words, in the last weeks and months. There goes a member of the European Union – a member of the European Parliament! – Mr Voggenhuber, who is here and who says so accentuated so that no one can hear or misunderstand it, on television: "Haider is a fascist, and the Freedom Party is a neofascist party." - No one has heard it. That's how it was. Then your people – I say so from the wrist – are demonstrating, even less and less from one week to the next, but anyway, and what are they scanning? – "Resistance throughout the country, bowl, haider on the wall!" - That's a call to murder! Your people! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Who?]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What? It's a cleaner! It's a piggy!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Then comes a Green Member, a Green Member from Vienna's Landtag, and she says: "The Federal Government has been traveling under the ground from Ballhausplatz to the presidential office, under the ground where it belongs!" – These are your statements! Then two so-called blunders come and express themselves in the state radio that you now have to find someone who has only two months to live, and he should kill Haider. Haider is someone with whom you can't sit at a table, except at the obductory table on which you're lying. And then nice tastefully scanning: "Cyklon B for FPÖ!" These are the sounds from the opposition and its surroundings – not from the government parties. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the greens, who? Who?]] Then go here using the method "Keep the thief!" and blow everything you believe on our site in remarks that you can use to discover to a huge soap bubble. Then you complain that Europe will now notice this soap bubble and that it will again be a disadvantage for Austria. But you overlook that no one would discover it if you didn't blow up this soap bubble. It's you who do that! You have to answer it! They are the ones who are going through the country with the magnifying glass and are looking for anything that could harm us, and they are propagating that outside accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: If that's for you! Please!]] And then you still shed crocodile tears here, pretending you were all hurting. That's what you really have to tease in this regard! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Then the population has to live on television, like a country captain with wife and children besieged by the demonstration mob in a place where the family eats night meal. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The reviews of yesterday!]] Those who have seen this are convinced: If the police didn't manage to get the family out of the family with a steel helmet and a scatter protection vest, she would have been killed by the mob. [[Abg. May. Prammer: That's incredible!]] And you trust to go here and say: Europe will look. – They ensure that Europe looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15179	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate... Mrs Dr. Madeleine Petrovic has made a statement on an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So what about your demonstration mob now? How does that look?]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15225	In his contribution to the debate, Member Ofner claimed that numerous calls for action were made in the wake of demonstrations by close-to-green people. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Repeat this again!]] – This is incorrect! There has never been such statements or calls for violence, otherwise the institutions of the State would have done so in the appropriate way. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are not only fearless, but also cowardly!]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] There is no such condemnation. There is a single procedure that has been pending since 1995 – you know that – in relation to the Revolutionsbrauhof, in which it had to be admitted that the alleged violence-indicated Pickerl has been a manipulation and forgery, depicted in the "Kronen Zeitung".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15286	Mr Peter Kostelka spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15319	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Ofner! Mrs Partik-Pablé! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now he can appear again! Now you've hidden him for a week, now he's allowed to appear again!]] They accused us of polemics. What we have heard from both of you has been pure polemics, with a single objective, with the aim of distracting from the actual content of this discussion. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The real content of this discussion is that the head of government of a state government has tried to bring to the public the free mandate, the core of political freedom. And you don't want to discuss that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] We listened very carefully. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Ask Mrs Hagenhofer once!]] That's exactly what we've been listening to! The Federal Minister for Justice has found no other comment in Klagenfurt than to say: That's a very "traceable" idea. If a Federal Minister says such a thing, he at least assumes that his department has proposals to draw up in this context. At least we have to go out of it! [[Call the liberals: Do you really believe what you are saying?]] We have therefore expected in this context today, in the debate on the budget chapter on justice, but also in our deadline debate, there are clear wordings. However, all that the Minister of Justice said was that he would do nothing against the free mandate. But on the proposal itself he did not find a word! We would like to know what the Federal Government is up to in this regard. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pure Polemik!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! Minister of Justice! I simply expect the Chancellor to see the Minister of Justice then, when such horrors are put to the debate, appear with all the clarity in the first second and to say what is the matter, namely that democracy in Austria must not be threatened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to react in this way, there would be not only this but also a second reason. In the first sentence of the necessary preamble to your declaration of government there is a commitment to the common heritage of the peoples of Europe. It is about personal freedom, political freedom and the rule of law. Federal Chancellor! You have Austria, you have the European states, you have also promised every statesman in the world to control the observance of this Preamble in detail. If a member of your federal government makes statements that – I express myself – can at least be understood as a contradiction to this Preamble, I expect you to clarify. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! This clarification has not been made. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that the farewell speech?]] This clarification has not been made, although here in this House not only the Minister of Justice, who has listened to the proposals made by the head of state of Carinthia, is now present, but also the head of state of Carinthia himself in the Journalist Gallery. [[Members of the Freemans rise from their seats and donate to the head of state in the gallery of Carinthia Dr. Haider.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Chancellor does not find any clear words, I assume that he does not dare to speak in the presence of the head of state of Carinthia, his chief chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15471	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15492	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Nürnberger: Don't forget the Haider!]] My dear colleague Kostelka, that our Federal Chancellor trusts more than you trust him, you have had to take note of this in recent months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Why doesn't he say that himself?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Even the Federal Chancellor laughs!]] The debate on the statements made by the head of state of Carinthia and also on the comments of the Federal Minister for Justice gives the impression here that we are standing shortly before the decision of the National Socialist Thought. It is simply immense that the green opposition and the left opposition represent this, and I would like to reject and correct this clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The creation of a link between the statements of the Federal Minister and the National Socialist Laws is inaccurate and false. Let me quote what this interview actually was about. Mr Haider said that there should be criminal sanctions for any Member or anyone who has a high political function if he breaks the vow he has to make. Mr. Böhmdorfer replied that it was certainly "persecutable" to pursue and examine the need for action as a minister, ideas, and social developments. This does not mean that we are already adopting a law, but that we should be examined whether there is a need for action. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is, ladies and gentlemen, whoever breaks the vow he is making here must also allow the question of whether he has complied with the laws, whether he has acted in accordance with the constitution. I have already stated this afternoon that every representative who needs to be carefully examined whether he has complied with the laws, of course also has the right to freedom of expression, freedom of thought and freedom of expression of his political interests. That is to say, it's important to consider whether there is a vow break or not. [[Prolonged calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] For us from the ÖVP, it is not acceptable – and I did this this afternoon too – that Mr Haider – and for that matter Minister Böhmdorfer has not spoken anymore – has also asked the question whether, in addition to the previous criminal laws, which Mrs Petrovic has quoted in detail, a new criminal record for the cases under discussion has been introduced. [[Abg. Oils: Are they enough or not?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Majesty's policy is that!]] To this end, the EIA has stated clearly and clearly: In the Criminal Code, there is no legal basis for us, and we do not recognize the need for action in this regard! That is why I do not understand the excitement to this extent.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15620	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the consultative group V of the Federal Estimate for the year 2000. This includes the chapter 30 of the Federal Estimate and the corresponding part of the economic compensatory estimate in 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the consultative group V of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Stoisits and comrades concerning the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Justice in accordance with Article 74(1). 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer did not agree! Gusenbauer and Schlögl have gone out! Just for the protocol!]] Adjournment pursuant to § 53 (8)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15676	I have a request for the negotiation of the Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and for investments according to § 53 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure with a view to initiating a meeting to negotiate other matters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for an appropriate sign. – That is, as far as I can see, unanimous and accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-16-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00025_d7e15713	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 160/A to 164/A. Questions 789/J to 800/J were also raised. Finally, Mr Povysil and Mr Comrades have been asked to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 17. May 2000, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will not take place for one hour or one hour at a time. Today's sitting is closed.
