ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1680	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome you to 48. The National Council meeting, which I will open at the appropriate time. Deputies Gaál, Fischl, Leikam, Dr. Ofner and Dr. Povysil are reported as preventable. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1711	I would like to draw attention to a communication from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the Federal Government: Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasserwill be represented by Federal Minister Herbert Scheibner. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1738	I announce that the requests received 1285/AB to 1288/AB. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1759	I can tell you that before entering the agenda, Members of the Nuremberg and Comrades have asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed request 331/A (E) tabled at the same time by Mr Nürnberger concerning the increase in the rate of commuting, kilometre and the disbursement of a federal heating grant. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this request will begin at 3 p.m. I can now go into the agenda. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (310 and 310 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2001 and Investments (370 of Supplements) Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1796	In the Presidential Conference, the following was agreed or proposed jointly to the Assembly: a day-block speaking time of 8 "Vienna hours", which gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 156 minutes, FPÖ and ÖVP each 116 minutes, Green 92 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, who should exceed 20 minutes, or the speaking time of a Secretary of State, which should exceed 10 minutes, but which is not considered today, will be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. The term of office of non-governmental government members or State secretaries is also fully taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. This proposal is to be found in the House. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Advisory Group XII Chapter 40: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1838	We are entering the negotiations on the advisory group XII of the Federal Proposal for 2001. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? – Mr Zeellot does not wish that. We can therefore immediately enter into the discussions. I begin with the appeal of the first speaker, Mr Kummerer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1865	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Good morning! In the context of the chapter under negotiation, we are dealing with the defence budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! With regard to the political responsibility for this defence budget, I would like to remind you briefly of the following: It has not been that long since, quite exactly half a year ago, when Mr Murauer, colleague Platter, made quite clear statements here about what he expected from the 2001 defence budget. I allow myself to quote his statements. Quote: "Of course, it is" – that is, the 2000 budget – "an absolute emergency budget – the Minister has also said that – and now it has to go a little further. In the next budgetary negotiations, something has to move." Let's take a look at what moved! – In the Federal Estimate for the year 2001, the chapter "Military Affairs" provides an amount of 23 billion schilling. That's a plus of 520 million schilling. That is clearly said. At least 500 million Schillings are bound for the purchase of the transport helicopters.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1896	Excuse me, colleague. – Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to use phones in the meeting room! Please continue your remarks, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1911	In addition to this shipment of transport helicopters, it should be taken into account that nearly 1 250 planning points have been taken over, and therefore there is no direct comparability. Taking into account these corrections, a defense budget of less than 0.8 percent of the gross domestic product is achieved, and as has been explained more often from this point of view, it is one of the lowest that the German army has ever available, and is clearly below the defence budgets available among Social Democratic Finance Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter has also given five more orders to the ÖVP and the government partners. First: Structural changes must be made to enable savings potential in the area of management and management. Let us look at the implementation of this demand by the former spokesperson of the ÖVP! – It is a good thing that we have only recently dealt with the issue of structural changes in the army, which is a very essential issue here in the House of Commons. The Minister of Defence has explained to us that the HG-Neu-Neu, also called HG-STRAN, has now been completed. Federal Minister! If it's actually finished, I'll ask you: Why can we not see any budgetary impact in the 2001 budget? – The fact is: The share of staff costs in the 2001 budget is also around 63 percent. It is therefore too high in comparison to the international benchmarks, which account for around 50 percent. I therefore ask you, Minister of State: When will the finalisation of structural measures also be reflected in the budget? There is often criticism – in my opinion, unwarranted criticism – of proposals from social democracy. To this end, I can say: Especially in this area, ladies and gentlemen, I can remind you that we have made many constructive proposals in recent times. For example, I would like to remind you of the proposal made on the occasion of the discussion on the new HG-Hungary: 60,000 men plus 20 percent reserve, so 72,000 men. Then the ÖVP cried out and said that the SPÖ wanted to halve the federal army. It's being argued populistly. Federal Minister! You have now set up an expert group. At the end of the year, it is expected to achieve a result. I'm interested in how this result looks. One hears that it is quite possible in the field of the expert commission to arrive at almost the same figures. The second proposal we have tabled: Due to the modern leadership structures, a corps is enough. – This has not been implemented, two corps have been realized in the HG-New. In this respect, too, it is heard that the Committee of Experts might well be of the opinion that a corps would be a reasonable leadership structure for the army. Thirdly, the military commanders; this was also mentioned at the time of Question Time. – We believe that the military commanders have acted in their original form and are no longer modern for Austria. I can remind you, Minister of State, that for a time you have not been so opposed to this idea. At the time of Question Time, you explained to us that the restructuring of the military commanders had been completed, which had been reduced by 30 percent. But there is nothing in the budget. The fact is: They are still convinced today that every federal country needs its own military command. In my opinion, this is inconceivable in military terms, and you should have responded to a political call from the EIA and are now ceding to nine military commanders. Ladies and gentlemen! The next point the ÖVP spokesperson asked for was the cost of foreign operations. There's also little to see about it. You will manage to receive an additional billion in 2000 to cover these costs in part. However, they are forced to take back the activities of Austria abroad within the framework of UN quotas, because the money for this is simply and simply missing. In addition, the ÖVP has called for a reduction in the costs of assistance in the area of the border. – Minister of State! That's a call I heard from your mouth. The fact is: There is no refunding of the costs of assistance at the border. As already mentioned, a budget overrun in 2000 resulted in a partial billing. It is not a budget item that can be built on for the future. These assistants are well known to be very important at our border. In my district – I have mentioned this several times – they would be more than necessary. It is important to do something for security, to do something against migration. Federal Minister! Mr Fassleven once demanded – it has not been so long ago – that the army should also be placed on the northern border in Lower Austria. Minister Strasser does not re-acquire the border army posts, does not fill up the post plan, reduces the 181 posts in Lower Austria and has publicly declared that this problem of internal Austrian security should be solved by introducing enhanced measures. This is not the security policy, Mr Federal Minister, my group. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties we are imagining! The fourth point that has been made to us by Mr Platter is: The important procurement of helicopters and also the safeguarding of airspace monitoring must be carried out extra-budgetically. – This requirement of the ÖVP has not been fulfilled either. The budgeting of helicopters is carried out in the current budget, with the amount already mentioned, which is additionally available. On the subject of helicopter procurement, colleagues from my group will speak. The "trend" article, which deals with it, is not a praise article. Mr. Federal Minister, perhaps we need to talk about it. On the subject of procurement in itself, I would like to say the following: They intend to participate in a European body. In this European body, which I support in principle, you bring the American helicopters as a gift. So I don't know if you made the entrance in a reasonable form. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter's last request: a gradual increase in the national defence budget. – A gradual increase in the national defence budget is not recognizable. It is also not clear from the 2002 raw data that a gradual increase in the national defence budget is taking place. It is always the accusation that the army must be saved. We believe, Minister of State, that the 63 percent share of staff costs mentioned above has a potential for savings. I am entirely of your opinion, which you announced at the time of Question Time, that social measures, agreed with those concerned, should be taken if reductions are made. This will allow additional funding for procurement. I would like to make a very specific request for a vote. In other groups, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you were not so delicate: Thus, the railways and the post office cut in considerably more dramatically. That also found our legitimate criticism. Here we support a sensible path. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner – and I am therefore in the responsibility of FPÖ, although the Ministry of Defence is of course still dominating the ÖVP – I ask you very clearly and concerned: How do you deal with comments from a colleague of yours, a party friend, a state councillor, who today – at least colported on radio – found it necessary to hit the chief commander of the Austrian federal army in front of the head with the statement "Lump is a harmless expression"? [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a scandal! That's incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You can't hide there. As far as the ÖVP is concerned – I am convinced – the Federal Chancellor will sit down and smile again. That's what it's going to be. I would ask you here to explain to us how you stand on these statements of the Council of State which have been colported on the radio. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would like to hear this from you, from the point of view, ladies and gentlemen of the large government party, that it was you who proposed to put a Hilmar Kabas as Minister of Defence on the government bank. "Lump" for the Federal President is for you a word of daily language use. Ladies and gentlemen! We are always ready for discussion when it comes to a sensible national defence of Austria, and we are fully committed to it, but the Social Democracy cannot agree to this 2001 defence budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1962	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e1983	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We are discussing today the national defence budget, the first part of the double budget of 23 billion schilling. It was a little improved due to the good economic situation for this and for the next year, and there is a billion schilling excess. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] It is true that it is not an outstanding budget, Mr Edler. We are of the same opinion in this regard, which is rare. Minister Scheibner is called upon to ensure the operation of the army with this budget. This is certainly not an easy task, but he will, like his predecessor, Minister Fassleven, he will do so and take account of the legislator. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, the former Minister of Defense Fassleven had a little harder, as in the ÖVP/SPÖ coalition of the partners SPÖ it did not make it easy for him to take appropriate action for the German army and to make sufficient resources available to him. Ladies and gentlemen! The legislator has defined the tasks of the army and has also decided in the last Novelle Wehrgesetz. Of course, we need slimmer administrative centres and management units. This is certainly essential, and we must not lose sight of this objective. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a European, a modern, a financeable army. That must be our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] General Force Inspector Pleiner explained this by saying that we hope for the best, but must be prepared for the worst. The Federal Army says about itself: We want to help where others can no longer help, where others are no longer able to help!, and this proves it very impressive, even with all the assistant inserts. At this point, in particular, I should like to mention the use of assistance in Kaprun and thank you very much to all those who have been employed there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" in an article point out what a commitment this was – I quote –: "The Hörschinger Storage Helicopters fight in Kaprun with heavy hairstorms." And elsewhere it says: "Since yesterday, helicopters have been bringing terrible cargo from the Kitzsteinhorn. The physical and psychological strains to which the six federal army-mountaining troops are exposed to six men in the Kaprun deathtolls can be expected at most." Ladies and gentlemen! Our soldiers have proved themselves once again. But it is necessary to focus the purchase of state-of-the-art equipment for the security of soldiers. I mention as examples means of transport to air and land. The attitude of the Social Democrats to this is blamable when their party leaders, starting from Mr Gusenbauer to Mr Edlinger, demand that more be saved from the German army. [[Abg. Edlinger: No! Don't give up anymore! This is a mistake!]] Mr Kummerer, you may not have heard what your colleagues have said. On the other hand, we demand that this budget should be increased, and that is where we meet again. Mr Kummerer and Mr Gaál are also of this opinion. But then Mrs. Central Secretary Bures appears and takes out her old enemy images from the Mottenkasse of the past and says: The billions that flow from the sale of federal apartments are given to the farmers, the entrepreneurs and, of course, to the federal army. Mrs Bures! I'm looking for you politely: If billions appear somewhere, please let me know, or let me know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The head of the Juso of Austria, Mr. Kollross, said that the German army should be abolished at all. So in this divergence, in these contradictions, the left of this house, ladies and gentlemen, are moving! This is not a serious policy, not a security policy at all, for our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Federal Minister! Of course, we are confessing to the savings budget because, at last, the finances have to be put in order. It's true that you have to stop thinking about how to spend money you don't have at your disposal. That's not a question at all! This has been ended here. But we must not forget, Mr Federal Minister, the objective of making 1 per cent of the gross domestic product available to the national defence budget, and we must also fix the special financing for foreign operations, for border service or for the newly created kiop. With the sensible procurement of the "Black Hawk", with military commanders and with further procurements, my colleagues will still deal with each other. I would now like to turn to one of the most important decisions – I believe it is just as important as the introduction of the euro or the enlargement of the East – namely the creation of the KIOP crisis response group, which is to be used to maintain the European peace system, to maintain security in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! We remember: Austria has signed the Treaty of Amsterdam on the Common Foreign and Security Policy, called CFSP in short, and is responsible for the tasks of Petersberg. This results in humanitarian tasks, the assistance of ABC victims, peace-keeping and peace-making measures. This is a step towards a responsible security policy for Austria, in solidarity – and I would like to stress this twice – with other European states. How much man should this crisis intervention force have? – They speak of 60,000 men for Europe as a whole. Austria has provided 2 000 men and has committed itself to providing them within a short period of time, i.e. between 30 and 60 days. The most important aspects are that the voluntary principle is to be taken into account – that is, voluntary, non-compulsory recruitment – and that additional equipment is provided within the framework of the KIO for the safety of transport and for use. The Federal Minister has already mentioned that it is necessary to obtain 80 to 90 "Pandur", handheld radios, radar equipment and man-made equipment, but that one will also put into operation "Leopard" and "Ulan", as has been proven in Kosovo. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important for me to draw attention to the fact that this is not an integrated European army, but a nationally available quota under national control. It is our solidarity contribution to the security of Europe and, of course, to our security, to the security of Austria. The Department of Defence – since my speaking time is already coming to an end, I would just like to mention this briefly – is there to explore the political and strategic environment of Austria and to define from it derived measures for the German army accordingly. We need a wide-ranging discussion in this regard. It is necessary that all parties and all the organisations concerned are involved and that we achieve the greatest possible consensus. The Security and Defence Doctor must be forward-looking for the next few years. If we are talking today about the state defence and security of our country, we can and must also mention that every responsible state has a lot of space in addition to the task of providing enough ground forces. We need an air police force, Mr. Federal Minister, and I expect that next year, in accordance with the Government Convention, the Dragon successor will be decided and the number and types will also be fixed. The Austrian People's Party has also put education at the centre of its policy, and it is a further recognition of the Austrian federal army if under-official training is also vocational training. It is a prestige if there is also a course for the transfer of professional maturity examination within the German army. There are already a number of positions, for health professionals, for technical professions et cetera. My final point, ladies and gentlemen: The High House is called for in terms of security and national defence, without doing any party-political glasses coloring for the best possible functioning German army.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2066	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2087	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The defence budget has not only been treated in the media as one of the many parts of the budget, but also clearly in the light of the fact that it has been one of the budget parts that have remained unscathed by the government's reduction plans. It has been noticed – not only the Greens – that several additional costs have been argued about in the area of defence, and I would like to go a little closer now. First of all to the Council of State Defense, in which much greater plans of the Minister of Defence have been debated and discussed and have also remained irrevocable, but for which, in part, no budget could be made available in the Council of Ministers. I mean the Eurocorp. There was a debate on this, but finally the wish that this part should be out of the budget was made a follow-up. That means that there is an indirect increase that goes beyond what is already apparent on the basis of the figures. But if it remained – and it is also about the future: about the future of the Austrian federal army, about the future of neutrality and about the future of a security concept for Austria – if it remained so, it would be a debate about money, so to speak, to spend what we are prepared for military security. I would like to point out once again that the debate has focused only on military security and not on all that security should include in a modern understanding today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But if it is clear that words and opinions are being expressed at European level, which have nothing at all to do with the conception of Austrian neutrality, then not only do I, but many Austrians suspect that a large militarization and a huge expenditure boost – which we would be expecting again at the budget – are to be expected. For example, if Sweden at European level today leads from the concept of classical post-war neutrality the debate about going towards alliance freedom, this is a different understanding of modern security policy than if Austrian representatives talk there about the obligation to assist, which goes far beyond that and is in clear and blatant contradiction to what neutrality, a constitutionally anchored neutrality at all, and thus, finally, neutrality – a constitutional provision, and I would point out that – is questioning and not just challenging, but threatening to abolish it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Assistance duty, as it was argued – and it was understood very well – is not compatible with neutrality concepts as it has Austria. I would like to make it clear why a party that used to know about voting on art houses or on music houses and the like, why such a party, when it comes to a constitutional principle, already represents and announces international concepts as quickly and as easily as possible, although, according to its earlier opinion, they would still have to vote by the Austrian people. [[Abg. Böhacker: That hurts you! The result hurts you!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: This is the government programme!]] And if the Minister throws it in here, it is also in the government programme, I say: Mr Minister, the government programme is not sakrosanct, and I will criticize it where, in my view, it is contrary to the Austrian Constitution when it comes to evading neutrality and transforming it into something that has nothing to do with neutrality at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But let us now talk about the budget consultation. From the budget deliberations – I have already drawn attention to it in the budget debate – I would like to say a little detail that has nothing to do with the kind of you, Mr Minister, that you have nothing to do with the outside. I have tabled a request to explain an increase in the cost of the buildings and to inform them of how this is done. You know what I got back? A handwritten paper on which it is written: The cost of proposed item XY has been increased because the costs have been increased. - That's not an answer. I did, I must tell you quite honestly, as a frog. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you ask for the reason for a cost increase and then you get the answer, the costs are increased because the proposed item stands more inside, and if you think that this is an answer, I don't know: Is this simply the total ignorance of every person who is not a member of the Freeman, or what is it about? With this I already have massive difficulties, and such practices do not shed a good light on what might hide behind a very friendly facade – I do not know. Let's go to the big cost items now. It is no coincidence that one of these posts has been in discussion for a long time and it will remain for some time, namely the procurement of the helicopters, the "Black Hawks", and the choice of type. As a Tyrolean, I can of course remember the time around Galtür, the debate that has arisen, and the justification, when it was said, that the purchases for transport helicopters would now be preferred and financed immediately. The reason was quite clear: We need rescue helicopters with appropriate transport capacity to be able to intervene in the case of disasters such as Galtür in good time. I can, if you want, bring you a collection of the statements on this subject that were to be found in the press and everywhere. Now a type is chosen that costs about half a billion shillings more. This type is argued – and this comes back from the Committee on Budgets – that it would have a higher crash, but above all, fire safety. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is important, very important!]] [[Abg. Murauer: This is important!]] Now it is not that the wilder densities in the Alps are so high that you have to fear for a transport helicopter, but it is so that this is not primarily a transport helicopter, but that it is a helicopter for other uses. [[Abg. Murauer: You should be there once! I would like you to have this security.]] Please, tell me that openly, but don't ever use the argument with Galtür for these helicopters when it comes to you to getting new military equipment! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And this 500 million schilling – or 450 million, it is currently said – is also argued with large compensation transactions that have been promised. I'll tell you one thing: I would very much like to have evaluated these so-called compensation transactions that have already been carried out in the past. I would like to know how much really is to be attributed to a compensation business and how much normal economic connections. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That can be proved!]] If you can prove here that the compensation for the past purchases in the amount actually corresponds to what has been announced before – this exam we wish for a very long time; Mr Kogler has also mentioned this – perhaps you will win a step in credibility if you promise us 200 percent compensation for these purchases today. At present, and on the basis of the past experience and on the basis of the various reports of the Court of Auditors, I cannot believe these arguments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It would be nice if we could leave it, but at the end of the day I would like to address the future plans on the procurement of interception hunters. And here my question is quite clear: What security concept, which threat images are behind this procurement? The argument at the time when the Draken was being purchased was absurd – many military experts gave this right in retrospect, if you listen to it on an international level – and if this argumentation is excavated again this time, it will not gain credibility in today's situation and also in the historical review. [[Abg. Young: Which one, for example?]] The concept of an Austrian federal army, equipped with interception hunters and with the current foreseeable procurement actions, corresponds very well to a budget item when you look at it carefully, namely the budget item for the fog lamp systems for tanks. I think there is a lot of fog here for a further increase in the military budget in the years to come. [[Abg. Boy: That's crazy! At least you should know what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If everyone has to save when tuition fees are introduced when extreme cuts are made in the socially weak, but the military budget is increased, then, ladies and gentlemen, this gives a clear light to the objectives, to the social and political objectives of this government coalition. [[Abg. Murauer: Don't forget the social staggering at the tuition fees!]] [[Abg. Großruck: What do you have against the federal constitution? You're talking about the federal constitution now!]] [[Abg. Großruck: You are talking about the federal constitution in which the military state defense is established!]] And I'll tell you the following: A modern concept of peace for Europe does not correspond to this picture!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2313	The next speaker is Mr Jung. The speaking time is set at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2335	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Only one sentence on colleague Lichtenberger and her helicopter critique from before. [[Abg. Auer: That doesn't pay off at all!]] – Mrs Lichtenberger, imagine a commitment in Kosovo that we are currently running. Helicopters are also stopped there, and it is about storing wounded or injured civilians, as has been done in such operations. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But it has been argued with Galtür!]] There was always a shooting of such helicopters by small weapons. Mrs Lichtenberger! What do you want to say to the pilots you're sending down there? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But it has been used as an argument by Galtür!]] How do you want to answer that the safety of these pilots and the possibly injured is not guaranteed? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, Mrs Lichtenberger, have an easy time talking, but the Minister of Defense, contrary to you, bears the responsibility, and he is grateful to God. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You also have easy talk!]] Mr Scheibner, Federal Minister, has committed an interesting but also very difficult heritage. He has taken over a ministry which has been financially starved for years and which has been entrusted with additional tasks for a decade, which are additional tasks but are not extra financed. [[Abg. Swimmling: But you already know you don't have to start an inheritance!]] – You are perfectly right, but you can and we do not want to abolish the Ministry of Defence. Instead, we want to reorganise the "inheritance". And we will also do that, Mr. Cot, you can be sure of that – despite your speech. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: By a further increase!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: You have to clean up because the barrel evening has left such a sniper pile!]] In any case, the question is that additional tasks have been assigned to the federal army, which have not been paid in addition. These were primarily the border security efforts that came to us ten years ago, and, secondly, the disaster and "PfP" operations, including in the Balkans, partly but also worldwide. Both bets converted into real costs represent an amount in the order of 1.5 to 2 billion schilling. Additional tasks, additional costs – not additionally funded! In order for them to be carried, they had to be saved in the internal area, being extremely saved, and the force had to be deprived of resources. I give some examples: The truck fleet has been exploited except for the outside. It was necessary to hire buses to drive the force – in quotation marks – "in battle". Our shooters sometimes have an age of service, which is higher than that of Brigadier Jung, who has also been on the bumple for over 30 years, and the main protective device of the mass of our soldiers is still the steel helmet with a model you know from the movies with John Wayne or Richard Burton about the Second World War. – There must and will be a lot of things. In addition – and this is still a decision of the old Federal Government – the efforts made in the context of the future European defence and security policy, the KIOP forces, which you have taken part in, have even actively cooperated. What you have forgotten is financial security, and it is not yet fully guaranteed, which is clearly stated here. However, we will be very much in favour of additional costs being financed. They cannot be carried out from the ongoing defence budget. On this, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to my group, but also to those of the EIA, we must be clear. Federal Minister Scheibner has found forces whose organization does not meet the current requirements because it was based on and aimed at an old country defense plan, which dates back to the 1970s and which has provided for 300 000 forces. Here you must make changes. He has found forces that are dubious and sometimes so bureaucratic that even the adaptation of pilot allowances has been decided with a two-thirds majority of this House thanks to your active assistance, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, and any change needs such a two-thirds majority. It's almost funny if it wasn't tragic. At the time – also thanks to your blockade here on this side of the House – it was not even possible to draw up an option report, a report that would have resulted in a common inventory analysis and a consistent security policy carried out by both government parties. [[towards SPÖ]] That is why you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, especially your leading forces at the time, are very much to blame. On the basis of your international connections and on the basis of your contacts with Europe, your top politicians were perfectly clear that there is actually only a sham neutrality and that there was not very serious, but genuine, and also unolidarian approach towards our European partners. Vrannitzky and climate knew this and therefore also spoke with split tongue. You will certainly remember the climate trip to Berlin, where he is very strongly committed to the common goals, but on the way back in the plane to Graz to the SPÖ party he has forgotten everything and is mutated to the thundering neutrality advocate. – This was politics with a split tongue to find an end. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also a serious word to our partner in the coalition, which cannot be taken entirely out of duty if we want to take serious account of it. [[Abg. Grabner: I believe you! You're right!]] Unfortunately, the too many, a positive security policy, counter-carriage calls from the federal states are still in bad memory. They started with the Dragon at the time, but unfortunately they haven't ended. I should like to remind you of the decision taken by the Government of Tyrol to make a shameful decision that the Tyrolean Government refuses to pay the 6 million schilling costs incurred for the foreign helicopters that were then called for help. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We would have to note a few details about this!]] This must not have a future in this form. This is not the right attitude and indeed no fame for the Tyrolean state government. Over 40 years of a missing and partly also missing neutrality policy, in the awareness of Austrian citizens, have fed a false but very comfortable idea that you still want to nourish today, Mrs. Lichtenberger, namely that neutrality offers security out of itself and therefore no special efforts are necessary in this direction. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: She's stuck in the Constitution, my lord!]] Under the pressure of European reality, however, we have to get rid of this riding-board mentality – and that was it, Mrs Lichtenberger. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Neutrality is in the Constitution!]] We need to find a new Security Doctor for our country – that is what the coalition is working on – and we need to find a new way and give the German army a new task. And for this, all the state-bearing forces of this country – Mrs. Lichtenberger, not you – are called. At present, as I have said, a Commission is working on drawing up a basic paper for such a doctrine. It consists of officials from four Ministries or the Federal Chancellery and is intended to carry out preparatory work and prepare a draft raw material. We Members expect to be involved in this work in good time – and if I say "we MEPs", I mean all Members and not just the coalition – to bring our thoughts and perhaps our criticisms back into this work phase at an early stage. The future Security Doctrine in this country is, after all, an essential matter for the whole people, and thus for its representatives, the MPs, and not just a matter of bureaucracy, which, however, has special knowledge for it. Therefore, for this important objective of a doctrine to be applied for decades, a possible small delay in time should not play a role, especially when it comes to reaching the widest possible consensus in as many points as possible. Until this goal is achieved, some time will pass. The Minister of Defence must not only bridge this time, but also use it, and he needs money that is on the agenda today under the budget. It cannot simply be further managed. In this respect, Minister Scheibner has already set accents. He succeeded in breaking the negative trend of the budget curve, although not yet fully satisfactory. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: spending even more money!]] The helicopter acquisition was finally launched, a first truck replacement rate, will be re-created, protective equipment – important for the people – and man equipment, especially with heavy weight on the forces in the foreign field, will be improved. In addition, there are a number of additional points, including legislative ones, which need to be corrected. We have decided on the first measures, and there are others in the run-up to the relevant committee. Finally, we have committed ourselves to an appropriate Austrian contribution to the new European armed forces, which should help to secure stability already in the run-up to our borders and not just at our borders. We need personnel to do this, we need soldiers. However, this requires not only adequate payment, but also a positive basic attitude of the population towards this task. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us try to achieve this together! However, it is not the right and not an honest way to offset social expenditure with the national defence budget. Both are necessary and both should not be disputed in serious parties. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What do you mean?]] Federal Minister Scheibner is the appropriate man to implement this project "future" for the German army, not least because he is credible for the widest possible involvement of the opposition in the defence policy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What?- Oh, my God!]] – The serious opposition, Mrs. Colleague, I am not talking about you. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Oh that! That's what you mean! Everyone who is your opinion is serious! Or how? It's a mental attitude!]] When he took office, a great advance of confidence was given to him by the staff members and the soldiers, and he fulfilled it. This budget with its turnaround was an important first step in the right direction, but the major tasks, Mr. Federal Minister, are still waiting. We liberals wish you a lot of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2583	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order on a point of order. Please comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. – Then Mr Scheibner comes along.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2634	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker, Member of Parliament and Brigadier Jung, has just said in his statement that, thanks to the resistance of the left side of this House, it would not even be possible to produce an option report in the previous government period. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] Member of Parliament, young man! Although you may not agree with the result, it is true that there could be no consensus on this, because the Social Democrats on the ground of the Constitution, on the ground of ever-increasing neutrality, and a solution which does not respect it, cannot come about.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2683	The Federal Minister is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e2719	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on a defence budget is always a difficult one, and we see it today, because the opinions about the need for expenditure on security in our country are partly very different, partly even across the political groups. Mr Kummerer, if you, as well as in the Committee and also in the Budget 2000, criticize the fact that this budget, the national defence budget, was too low, then I give you the right. I give you the right, Mr Kummerer: This national defence budget is too small to cover, in addition to maintaining the holding, the additional tasks placed in future for the defence of the state, it is above all too small to cover the need for recovery, the deficits that have accumulated in recent years, even decades. Unfortunately, Austria has never spent the necessary time on its own security, which should have been done especially if one had taken seriously the principle of armed neutrality, which has been represented in all these decades. [[Abg. Edler: One billion more!]] This has not been done, and we are facing the problem today that we have to meet this need for follow-up. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Kummerer! If I give you and your colleagues from the National Defence Committee on this point, I do not know what the official line of your party in the area of the national defence budget is now. [[Abg. Edler: Cost truth!]] Have you and your interlocutor Gaál – whom I would like to see soon better and all the good for his recovery process – right by criticizing that too little is spent, or have your neighbor, the former finance minister, right to speak of billions of gifts for the national defense. I already heard about the 2000 budget, 6 billion schillings are given. I just didn't find these 6 billion schillings, ladies and gentlemen. Today, it has even been said that the entire budget deficit – at least 50 billion schilling a year – could be rehabilitated by deleting the alleged gifts for the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen! With all appreciation and respect, you really almost seem to me like the literary form of the "crazy". The question is: Who is stronger now: Me or me? So you or you? I hope, Mr Kummerer, that you will prevail and not Your neighbor, former Finance Minister Edlinger, and that we also bring together this consensus, that we must, in addition to all the important tasks a state has to fulfil – social system, education system, everything clear – and also the necessary, no longer, but also no less, the necessary for our security. [[Abg. Edeller: More efficient business!]] If we had brought this consensus together, we would have been very far off in the debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But after all, ladies and gentlemen, a moderate increase in the national defence budget has been achieved – overall, if you add the excess authority from this year to a little more than 1 billion schilling in addition to the budget – and it has succeeded for the first time – I would particularly like to point out that the national defence has a chance to achieve additional revenue. It has now been agreed that all revenue beyond the level of this amount can be allocated to the national defence budget and used for investment. This is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because it must be clear to us today that the security scenarios have naturally changed. The threat picture has changed, the time of the Cold War is God's thanks, but it's not that we need no more crisis response today, that we no longer need power to use disasters, that we have no more need for assistance. I would also like to stick to the following point and ask you that in this area we also have a national consensus that, in all the criticisms of individual measures, including politics, defence policy, we can always exercise various measures, one out of the question, Mr. Colleague: that the Austrian army and therefore 25 000 staff – 17 000 of them in uniforms, 17 000 soldiers – use their professional life and many tens of thousands of their free time in the militia to give them the highest good they have, namely their health and their lives, to ensure that you and all of us, Austria and its people can be safe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We should like to thank you for this, especially when it comes to carrying out these operations under the most difficult circumstances and even under difficult conditions. I therefore believe that – and I say this quite clearly – often embarrassing – since I do not take anyone out – that there are still representatives who question precisely these expenses, whose need is questionable, and that soldiers of the Austrian federal army, the German army, are often downgraded to be bitters when it comes to ensuring the needs of the budget and infrastructure. It is not about uplifting any professional soldiers, any mercenaries who then wait in the barracks to get some order for intervention, but it is about making it possible to fulfill the orders we have given them, and above all that – and this is also important, ladies and gentlemen – to make these tasks possible with the best possible certainty for these soldiers. That is why it is in all our responsibility that we provide the soldiers with the best possible equipment, the best possible infrastructure. Of course, one can discuss the fact that this should, of course, also be cost-effective, but saving safety is irresponsible, and I could never support and support this responsibilitylessness! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Lichtenberger! You too should consider whether you yourself would be willing to do all those things that our soldiers do every day – I just call the keyword Kaprun – whether you would actually be willing to do all these achievements. This should be considered by everyone who doubts the tasks and the need for national defence. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is not an argument for interceptors! That's childish!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If I say that there are new tasks to defend the country, then on the one hand these are the tasks under international security policy. To this end, I would like to make it quite clear that this is not a new decision-making process for the Federal Government, but that participation in the crisis response forces of the European Union is going back to a development that has begun for us with EU membership, with Austria's accession to the European Union, for a long time, and that many processes have gone through and are now entering the implementation phase. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Obligation to assist!]] Mrs Lichtenberger! They have referred to constitutionality. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Obligation to assist!]] But if you are already talking about the Constitution, you need to know the constitutional provisions that anchor military national defence. If you'd confess yourself so clearly to this, I'd be glad. They also referred to the Neutrality Act. The Neutrality Act is of course in force, but you will also know, Mrs. Lichtenberger, that the Article 23f is placed in the same rank as the Neutrality Act, namely Article 23f of the Constitutional Law, adopted by a SPÖ/ÖVP government, in which all that we are now implementing was made constitutionally possible. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Obligation to assist!]] Mrs Lichtenberger! This article has not only made it possible for us to participate in the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy, but also to ensure that fighting efforts to deal with crises, including peace-building measures, are now enshrined in the Austrian Constitution and, Mrs Lichtenberger, that this is a gradual definition of a common defence policy of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Obligation to assist!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Obligation to assist!]] Mrs Lichtenberger! You will know because you are a member of the National Defence Committee. What is a common defense without a guarantee of assistance? – It's not possible! The joint defence of the European Union is therefore part of the Austrian federal constitution. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's a difference! You have to know this difference!]] Nevertheless, Mrs Lichtenberger, we have made it clear and clear that our objective is to establish a European assistance guarantee, because it is also an act of solidarity. Of course, we will not allow – and here again we should find a consensus on this – in the future, we will do everything against the fact that, as was the case in the recent past, torture is being committed on our continent, millions of people are being banished, and that violence is allowed to do so! Can you stay out of this, Mrs. Lichtenberger? Can you close your eyes in front of the horrific pictures we've seen? – I do not think so, Mrs Lichtenberger! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... Obligation to assist, and nothing else!]] There must therefore be European solidarity. There must be a clear word against all these dictators so that we can act unitedly and closedly against such machinations. That's our obligation, that's our mission! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This has nothing to do with the obligation to assist!]] Especially a small country like Austria should be interested in the fact that it is under the umbrella of the State community, so that we too can say that we can safely guarantee that Austria can be kept out of all military conflicts in the coming years and decades, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Tell me openly that you want to be neutral! Tell me openly that you don't want neutrality anymore!]] Then say, What is neutrality for you, Mrs. Lichtenberger? [[Abg. Boy: She has no idea!]] What is neutrality for you? Is neutrality looking for you when people are murdered when women are raped when children are killed?- Oh, my God! Is that your understanding of neutrality? – My understanding is not that, but it is my understanding of solidarity that we must do everything against it so that such things are no longer possible. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you don't have to be in an alliance to do that!]] You're right, Mr. Schieder. But it is unreasonable that, while all the obligations of international solidarity are entered into without being able to take advantage of the benefits, one is that one can speak fully and the other that the other also assumes a security guarantee for us. That would be quite a reasonable thing, as I believe, about which we could discuss, Mr Arbitrator. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Within the EU: Yes!]] – There is nothing else, Mr Deputie Arbitr. It is precisely this debate within the European Union. [[Abg. May. Trattner: ( towards SPÖ) A private body for your club!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Administrative savings have been raised. Of course! In addition to the question: How much money does the state defense get?, is it also important to note: What is the money spent on? – The staff costs must be addressed on the one hand. But the imbalance, ladies and gentlemen, does not result from the fact that we have too much staff, but from the fact that we have too little resources available for investment. On the other hand, of course, we must ensure that the orders are clearly defined. That is to say, one has to clarify what future orders for the defence of the country are, because neither the army nor the structures nor the military system are self-interest, but they are all for the purpose of being able to best fulfill the orders. And then we have to try to make the best possible structures for optimal order performance. I have already said in Question Time and in the Committee on Budgets that the measures that my predecessors have already started, especially administrative simplifications, have been implemented very successfully, but of course we have to take further steps. I also said clearly that we do not start with the restructuring measures at the top of the team, but we are starting at the top. We start with the central office, we start with the administrative institutions, we start with the top division, and in a few weeks we will present a proposal, such as the top-level division, the management structure of the Austrian federal army not only to a modern standard, but also how we will implement this principle of administrative simplification, debureaucratisation and sparingness into practice. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing you should bear in mind is that in a country like Austria, an army cannot only be judged according to purely economic criteria, and not only according to purely military criteria. For example, military commanders have been addressed in this regard. I've already explained it: After purely economic and also purely military considerations, one could discuss it if one considered only the most immediate tasks of military defence. But when I consider the structure of Austria – a federalist structure – when I consider the tasks, especially those in the use of disasters – I say now: Kaprun, Galtür – where it is the military commanders, who are not only the contact points for the national authorities, but also have to lead these missions, then I must say that it is, I believe, failed to think about us: Where, then, are the leadership tasks that may still be adapted for the military commanders, and how can we reduce bureaucracy, but still clearly confess to the federalist structure? As long as we confess that we have nine federal states – and I assume that this will continue to be the case in the future – we should also confess that we have nine military leaders in these federal states in order to be able to provide as efficiently as possible our assistance in the use of assistance and disaster. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen! He is also a very important task for the security of Austria. As with all other assistants, it must also be pointed out that this is not an actual task, a responsibility of the army, but that we are taking on a task for another place of business as long as this place is not able to take over this task by our own resources. To this end, we confess, and especially the use at the Burgenland border shows how necessary, how important and how successful this support is. Nevertheless, in all these areas, the competent authorities must not be taken out of responsibility, but must do everything possible to carry out these tasks themselves in the short, medium or at least long term. And, of course, such a commitment – especially when it goes over a certain period of time – must also find a corresponding precipitation in the defense budget. In my view, it cannot be accepted that the same tasks are carried out by different departments, by different institutions, but there are different facilities for staff and, above all, infrastructure. I think we should still discuss this, especially when it comes to extending and deciding on these operations in a permanent manner. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There was also a lot to be said here about the question of helicopter procurement. Mrs Lichtenberger! I have already explained my reasons for the decision. It is not about the danger of hunters – that is also the question of a certain seriousness in this discussion – but, Mrs. Lichtenberger, two good products have been selected. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's it!]] And I was grateful to God for the opportunity to achieve the necessary budget resources in order to obtain the technically better equipment for our soldiers, exactly according to the principle I mentioned earlier. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... the difference between "Black Hawk" and "Eurocopter"!]] It is technically better in terms of safety, but above all technically better in transport overall capacity. And this is not only about ensuring Mrs. Collabor, in foreign action, that any maroding gangs with rifles can not shoot at these helicopters, but also about the ability to crash, that in difficult terrain – which is never excluded when an accident occurs; for example in the mountains, Mrs. Colleague – in the model that we have acquired, the inmates have a 10 percent higher chance of survival. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true! At the "Eurocopter" too!]] I don't want to hear what you would say if such an accident had happened, and then some well-founded experts found out that in the case of another decision, if we had got the other device that was still alive! – These are the things we need to talk about. Let me tell you again: We have not gotten a combat helicopter, but we have acquired a technically excellent product for military operations, for transport operations, and that is, as I think, also positive, and this is precisely at a time when we are thinking about the needs and difficulties in the field of procurement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We can maintain the operation with this budget for the next year. We can also carry out important procurement projects in some areas, for example on the question of trucks and on the question of radio troops. We will also do a lot in the area of health care equipment, and we will do something – and this is also an important responsibility – in the equipment of our soldiers in order to protect our soldiers as best we can. It's a silver strip on the horizon. The implementation of the commitment that we have also enshrined in the government programme, namely to do something for our security, is foreseeable. But I also say very clearly here: Unfortunately, due to the difficult budgetary situation we have taken over, many points that we have made are not yet enforceable next year. But – and I say that quite clearly – this federal government has come to know how to take seriously the security of this country and thus the Austrian state defence. And I am convinced that this confession will continue to follow actions in the coming years!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3154	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3175	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) One word to my colleague, Jung. Mr. Jung! I think it is a duty exercise of the liberals, but also a compulsory exercise of the ÖVP, always and at any time to say that the SPÖ is responsible for everything that has happened in the negative sense. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Almost 30 years!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Let me give you an example. They said that the army would be accused of having the armed forces on their head, and we – the SPÖ – were guilty of it. I ask you: Who has been Minister of Defense for the last 15 years? – That was no one from the SPÖ, that was an ÖVP minister! Stop always making SPÖ responsible for something she has never and never put the minister in! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Martin Graf and Neudeck.]] I'll ask you a question now: Why did your party member, Jörg Haider from Carinthia, have your party member executed that the ÖVP will not jump with the FPÖ as with the SPÖ if you believe the SPÖ has blocked everything? Ladies and gentlemen! Take note of this! [[Complementary by the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha, that's funny! Who was this jumper who jumped off?]] Now to the budget. – Minister Scheibner! You said that the budget was too small: 23 billion schilling, pre-tax 2.4 billion, personnel costs around 63 percent, which is about 14.5 billion, results in 6.1 billion for the operating business. The budget is tight, admitted, but it is already a matter of how the budget structure is and how the resources are used. If I hear your vice chancellor, who on every occasion decides that 15 000 officials have to be dismantled with a dash... – Well then 14 000, that's not a small number either. [[Abg. Wattaul: Don't be!]] So if these officials are cut down with a dash, I wonder: How will you, Minister of Defence, create the resources at your scarce budget, the room for manoeuvre so that the ongoing operation can be maintained and the appropriate replacement investments can also be made? If we look at Kaprun, I also do not want to miss this moment and all the forces and the Special thanks also to the recruits – both on behalf of SPÖ and personally – who have done overhuman things for my terms, had to deal with over-dimensional effort and psychological stress and have really given everything to help there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] – I had already expected the ÖVP to clap. But that's not the right thing if someone says thank you to the SPÖ, is it? – That’s it – it’s so simple here in this house. These soldiers do all they can for their minister, for the army, do all they can for their duty. I do not understand, however, Mr Minister – and I have told you that in committee – why the budget has only estimated 100 000 S for canteen and home repair. [[Abg. Wattaul: Lion stage!]] - You don't need to laugh, Mr Wattaul. Check it out, then see it! You will still be able to read; I could. If you know that there are dorms in the Schwarzenbergkaserne, where 50 recruits are sleeping in a hall and there is no way to dry the wet laundry, the dirty laundry, then it must be said: This also came about in the time of a Minister of Defence of the ÖVP! Mr. Minister of Defence! I hope that not only these 100 000 S, which are now estimated, will be used, but that this area will be given more money by means of a corresponding shift in the budget, so that the soldiers who are in the Schwarzenbergkaserne will be able to take up their duties and use them at any time under the same conditions as in all the other barracks. They should be able to dry their laundry elsewhere and should not find 50 beds in their bedroom. Mr. Minister of Defence! I would have expected something else, in the sense of a precaution. When you were still a member of the National Defence Committee, this was also a concern of yours, and I hope you will do so now. There is only one approach to this in the budget. It is about the fact that for presenters, for cadre soldiers who voluntarily provide military service, these times, which up to now are only replacement times in pension insurance... – We were there. [[Abg. Scheibner: But you did it!]] We were not strong enough either, I admit, but you have always represented it. And it is now time for you as a minister to ensure that these replacement times can be converted into contribution-covered times, so that the people who make themselves available to the federal army do not lack retirement periods at age. Mr. Minister of Defence! When it comes to correcting the head burden of the army accordingly, I – for my terms – lack the budgetary approaches to social plans. I think that what is at least colported for other officials should also be taken care of by the officials of the Ministry of Defence in the budget proposal. We from SPÖ, Minister of Defence, stand for a modern, forward-looking government. But we also stand for a consensusal defence policy conception. We stand for an appropriate strategy that we do not yet know. [[Abg. Kiss: I think you don't know your own strategy yet! You can see that you don't know your own strategies yet!]] And above all, we stand for human and social security. These are missing from this budget, Minister of Defence. I hope and wish that this will be brought in by you in the future. [[Abg. Kiss: We stand for a strategy that...!]] One last, Minister of Defence! I think that what you submitted to Mrs Lichtenberger – and I am not her defenseman – is that Austria, so to speak, had looked away for 45 years in the face of murder and death on the grounds of neutrality. That's a terrible thing if you meant it like that. If that's what you meant, it's immense! Austria has always been involved in international operations. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: But not in the event of crisis attacks!]] You should say that, Minister of Defence, fairly. Otherwise, as you have said here, this is an injunction to Austria, it is an injunction to Raab, Gorbach, Klaus, and to this day also to Sweden and Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3349	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3371	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For the budget chapter, I would like to maintain the following: I believe that despite iron savings in the federal budget, important investments in the Austrian federal army must be made. The Austrian Federal Army is doing great things for our population in the event of disasters, bordering on the border between Burgenland and foreign operations. This gives the population a general sense of security because it is there when you need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ÖVP stands for the acquisition of the transport helicopter "Black Hawk". I mean, this decision was high at the time when the disaster of Galtür clearly brought us to the fore. The current transport helicopters are completely outdated and after 36 years of service have almost exceeded their service life. You might now ask me: But why is the more expensive "Black Hawk" purchased if you could have gotten the "Eurocopter" cheaper? – Simple: Because the price-performance ratio is right, ladies and gentlemen! I've been dealing with the area of military transport helicopters and I want to give you a few points here. The French "Cougar" was actually planned as a civilian helicopter and was only armed in the post-war military. In the equipment, many components that Sikorsky makes available with its "Black Hawk" standard must be bought expensive. The "Black Hawk" includes the equipment, as well as many other components, in the series package. In addition, I believe that, especially with regard to future international operations, the "Black Hawk" range of up to 1,600 km will improve the supply and mobility of our auxiliary troops in a sustainable way. Ladies and gentlemen! This helicopter must prove itself twice as follows: Not only in the military field is he much required, but also in the use of disasters he has to show performance. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] I mean, in both cases he's best suited. The safety for pilots and passengers at the "Black Hawk" is an example of how experience shows. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, I would also like to lose a few words on the economic aspect. Sikorsky has a clear nose on the compensation orders. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You have to evaluate that!]] With a volume of around 5.8 billion schilling, the double of the purchase price, "Eurocopter" was clearly beaten. The purchase price of nine "Black Hawk" helicopters is about 3 billion schilling. Counter-businesses for our economy of around 6 billion schillings have been negotiated, which is to be considered very positive. And that is also being checked by the Court of Auditors, Mrs Lichtenberger. You don't have to be so skeptical here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] This aspect is gratifying. In my opinion, however, there is another essential point. By buying domestic companies, the supply industry, the doors to the American market are wide open, which will amount to an initial inflammation for our economy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Do you really believe that...?]] Let me give you an example: The especially for my region, the Inn district, important company FACC will, like many others, benefit greatly. The FACC will be involved in the cross-border production of the S-76 with an order value in the 500 million schilling and incredible future potential. But also in the production of 1,200 helicopters of the type "Comanche" for the US forces, equipment parts "Made in Austria" could be used in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The "Black Hawk" can or should be stationed in the Fliegerhorst Hörsching, in Upper Austria. I hope and expect that because the infrastructure and staff are there. Furthermore, there is a good accessibility of all parts of Austria, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One hears again and again that the leadership structures in the federal army are to be changed. Mr Gaál said at the Committee meeting: Two corps are too much. It is also discussed the abolition of military commanders. Mr Kummerer from the SPÖ has pleaded for this abolition. I believe that these institutions are necessary, as acceptance of the population is very high, the proximity of citizens is very pronounced and a close-up with the population is given. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it!]] It is also necessary to highlight the knowledge of regional circumstances. I thank all the soldiers, ladies and gentlemen, for their achievements in the service of Austria and our people and I am happy to agree to this military budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3478	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3500	Mr President. Minister! High house! We are discussing today the budget chapter of national defence. It has already been mentioned that your budget, Mr. Defence Minister, is one of the few in which the proposal contains more than others. Although it is only 500 million schilling – and you say that is not much – but these 500 million, I must say, are about so much for the "Black Hawk" helicopters that Austria, for example, could finally come to a level in the field of development cooperation, with which we are no longer final light in Europe and the OECD. That would be something to put a sign and not to buy helicopters. This has already been said by my green predecessor and colleague today. This is a helicopter that doesn't really look at – even if I know you see it differently – why exactly the more expensive one that should be bought from the United States and not the one who had fulfilled the demands as well, but who would have come from the EU area. [[Abg. Murauer: This has been explained 15 times, Mrs. Colleague! How many more times?]] That is exactly how it is not fair when I look at the budget as a whole, that some 2 million schillings are also planned for next year in the field of extra-performance allowances, in the field of personnel than for this year. This is in stark contrast to the way in which civil servants are dealt with. There is a massive reduction. That's what you're defending with: Well, you can't finance that, we have to save. – With the soldiers you can lie down very well, there is more paid. In the case of civil servants, there is a massive reduction. This is not a balance for me – in any case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's get to the topic of foreign operations. It has been said in recent months: The Austrian UN deployment in Cyprus is being deleted, and we no longer need to do so, and others are expected to do so. We need the money for the Euro Corps. We need the money to "stand man" and participate in the same way in the context of European security and defence policy. ==References== November, however, I read in the "Press" that one is thinking of counting the already foreign troops to the 2,000 men you have promised, and then one only needs a few hundred new ones. - Maybe it's quite different: You take those already in use and then, if you need them, make them somewhere else. [[Abg. Young: You didn't follow the debate! Once the "Presses" read, not enough to be an expert!]] I'm just quoting. This is what is discussed in the press, and here I ask the Minister whether the considerations are actually going in this direction. This article in the "Press" also contains a very interesting description of what "ESDP" can still be called, namely not only Europe's security and defence policy, but there are other things colported. It is already said that there is so little concrete commitment, and nothing exactly can be said from the Austrian side. They seem to have agreed with the Minister of Finance on something, but this is not happening in the budget. In Question Time you said: It must be done if you know exactly who says how much; at present I cannot say exactly where these 4 billion schillings you want to come from. – The new name of the ESDP is "European security virtual and on paper". What's going on here? – On the one hand, it is very much said that we now have to strengthen the Eurocorp, we have to participate in it, we belong to it. And at the same time, on the other hand, it is not at all clear where the money comes from, where you will take it in the future. It's about extra-budgetary resources, you've been talking to the Minister of Finance about anything. Minister! To present such a budget, and at the same time to say that we are taking action, but not to say where the money is to come from, that cannot really be a good budget in the sense of your "new government". Another thing: On Monday evening, the United Nations Vice-General Secretary-General Louise Fréchette was present at the Diplomatic Academy. It has, incidentally, made the following comment: If you are always asking why the UN is not more powerful, what peacekeeping means, and the OSCE is not, you only need to start with the budget. If you compare the total budget of NATO with what the UN has, then it's no wonder that there's so much criticism about the UN that it's always said that it doesn't work. – And this, although the UN is now trying in the Brahimi report to eliminate weaknesses that have occurred in the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Another thing: Again and again the talk is about the interceptors to be bought. They say that now nothing exactly is planned, you don't know how much they will cost, even which type is not quite decided yet. Minister! In Question Time you said: I am opposed to always weighing the safety of the population against other important areas. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: To play!]] – The protocol says "thinking"; "playing out", whatever you want. But you yourself said: The threat scenario has changed. I wonder, however, if you say that the threat scenario has changed – I very much agree with you: How do you want to deal with prisoners against torture? Can you explain that to me? – I really can't imagine that. [[Abg. Young: Now go on...!]] How do you intend to deal with interceptors against human rights violations, against dictators? And besides that: Explain to me what has been done in the past by NATO against Iraq in Kosovo!Unknown term type: "%s".? Did they really do what they planned? [[Federal Minister Scheibner: What have you done in Kosovo?]] Saddam Hussein is still sitting in Baghdad, and in Kosovo the fall of Mr Milošević is mainly due to the last election result and not to the use of NATO. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: The deportations have stopped! Not by beautiful words!]] The goal was to stop Milošević. You have not achieved this goal. They also say that when it comes to safety, they are not responsible. – Minister of Defence! [[Abg. Kiss: These are... trains, what you say down there!]] I agree with you. But the problem is still for me: Your security concept is one of the last century. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your safety concept is not one that includes the safety of the population as a whole. [[Abg. Kiss: It is rare to hear such known dangers!]] Then I would ask you once more to make more wind within the government groups, for example for increased traffic controls, as far as Autoraser is concerned and as far as driving is concerned, if one is drunk. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is that the same threat picture?]] – Yes, this is a threat to the population. Why don't you ask what people feel threatened about? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] But it's not from the Russian Federation that can't even keep its own submarine. Or maybe a new Yugoslavia? Where is this threat to come from? Where are these new attacks to come from? – You may not be able to explain this to any Austrian or Austrian. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Back then, the fungus demanded an action against Slovenia!]] The threats are inside, traffic. It was the ÖVP that did not vote in favour of a ban or a restriction on private property. There are the threats. What about the safety of women, violence in the family? – These are security threats. The other threats – ask! – are not present. [[Abg. Young: Yes, but in another resort area! You're in the wrong debate!]] – This is an overall security picture, and I do not really see a change in the current government. It's too little if you say the cold war is over. – That’s true, fortunately we don’t have it anymore, but the threats to the population lie elsewhere. Finally, let me come to the question of neutrality! Federal Minister! You say – at least you have not claimed anything contrary – that you are on the ground of neutrality. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: The Constitution!]] – Not neutrality? That's interesting because if you say there's the article 23f federal constitution law, then that's right, but the duty to assist you is probably about a lot more. But you're demanding that you like that. [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] You also know that there won't be this, but you want something without saying at the same time, you want to abolish neutrality. If you – especially your party – are always so concerned about asking the people about the euro, you have asked them about the euro, you even want to conduct a popular survey now; at least this does your party in Burgenland – then I ask you: Why don't you ask the people about neutrality? Because you might be afraid it's going on? Because you may be afraid that the Austrian population sees very well that neutrality is a little more than just watching? You first meant – and this makes me very doubt how much you really stand behind neutrality: Neutrality would mean looking away from murder and killing. – Is that what Austrian soldiers have done over the past 45 years? Is that what Austrian soldiers left their lives for on the Golan? Because they watched in murder and death? [[Federal Minister Scheibner: This is the European...!]] Is that your view of neutrality? – That would be an insult to those who have left their lives. This would also be an insult to what the neutrality in Austria has been for the past 45 years. If you accuse us that we just want to watch – which I still don't understand and probably will never understand – I ask you: Why Catch It's not at last why NATO doesn't finally start neutrality as something positive, as something new in the 21st century. To define the century, where it is necessary – not only in conflict management, if there are conflicts already, to send troops and see if you can manage anything else, so that it is not too powerful, but there is also something to do for it, because it does not happen by itself, and the weapons alone will not accomplish that, how one works to see conflicts in time? There are very good advances and good advances within the OSCE and the UN. A security concept that emphasizes exactly that, namely the provision in conflict cases – first the early recognition of conflicts – so that you no longer need military intervention at all, I miss out on you. I miss these with you, too, when you say neutrality is just "look away in murder and death". Minister! In my opinion, this can only be said that you are not really behind neutrality. And so the question arises: How do you keep it with your oath on the Constitution when you say that neutrality is not what we need anymore? How do you deal with this, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3745	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3767	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased that the SPÖ – at least parts of it – is committed to increasing the national defence budget. We will still have to come back to this support, because the government of your party had to take over a debt mountain of 1,700 billion schilling, and therefore understandably the resources for the current government have become scarce. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek! With the interception hunters, Austria will certainly not lead wars, but will ensure security. Finally, you should be aware that with the accession to the European Union and with the Treaties at European level, which have been signed by SPÖ Heads of Government as a result, the neutrality of old influence has become obsolete and we need to find new mechanisms for the security policy of the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me remind you of some of the key points of the government programme. First: "Military national defence is an essential and indispensable element in ensuring peace, freedom, security and stability for Austria and its citizens." Secondly, "In future, in addition to the territorial defence tasks, international solidarity services, disaster aid and assistance services of the Federal Government will be the priority." – That will also be in the sense of the Greens and in the sense of the SPÖ. Thirdly, "The German army must be prepared for all these tasks, including participation in the entire spectrum of European crisis management (...)." Ladies and gentlemen! A small use of the key points of the government's programme is recommended again and again in order to describe the consequence of which Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibnerd's objectives are sought. For the year 2000, Herbert Scheibnernoch had to talk about an emergency budget. For 2001, a moderate increase in the national defence budget has been made possible. With the increase and also the possibility of income that can be lurked, this is about a billion schilling. Speaking of militarization, ladies and gentlemen of the left, there is probably something overlaid, but this fills some gaps that have so far been caused by the poor teaching of the federal army. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The expenditure for the 2001 budget will cover a number of key projects of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. The aim will be to maintain the Federal Army's operations with the aim of continuously improving the training of the conscriptors and the training of the cadre. This is also about the barracks, their renovation, including the military homes, as Mrs Hagenhofer mentioned here. It is also a matter of ensuring all the German army's assistant forces, and also of ensuring international commitments. The start of the acquisition of multi-purpose helicopters can be initiated, and it is also ensured the continuation of the modernisation of the Federal Army's equipment. Ladies and gentlemen! With the procurement of transport helicopters, but also with armored vehicles, not the war capacity of the Federal Army is increased, but its assistance and the protection of the soldiers. That's an essential difference! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But regardless of that – the Federal Minister has already responded – the German army is also ready to reform itself. The Minister of Defence tightens the administrative structures of the Austrian Federal Army and comprehensively modernises the army. He starts at the top of the Federal Ministry, which goes up to the Corps and Military Commandos. In particular, Mr Kummerer, the military commissions are not about the present form, but about the maintenance of regional leadership structures for the organization of assistance missions and similar important things which the Federal Government is ensuring. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Defence has also set up two main commissions. One deals with the introduction of a volunteer army and the basics necessary for it, the second concerns the preparation of a new defense doctrine, a new national defense plan. The results of these two Commissions will be available by the next spring, and we will be able to discuss them at parliamentary and public level. Ladies and gentlemen! This Minister of Defence is implementing the government programme step by step. The 2001 budget, under Herbert Scheibner, has for the first time been a turnaround to the good for many years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3869	The next speaker is Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e3890	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! At the outset, I can say that the Social Democrats stand by this federal army. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Thank you!]] We can go with you on many questions. We are not going to conform to all points – including your party – that is, of course, in every party. So in many points we go in conformity – not in all, of course – even with regard to the acquisition of helicopters. To buy a helicopter, I'll say a few more. I can only say one thing: Please do not threaten to make the same policy as your predecessor, because with it we cannot go in conformity! [[Abg. Murauer: That was weak!]] I almost never agree with Brigadier Jung, but today he has raised a point in which I can be of his opinion: the quiet criticism of the coalition partner. The longer you get together, the stronger the criticism becomes. That's what I'm telling you now. Ladies and gentlemen! To the 2001 budget. The traditional areas of national defence have undergone significant changes in the last decade. Fortunately, the threat scenarios at our borders, the danger of Austria becoming a battlefield no longer exist. The new tasks are waiting for corresponding new answers. It takes – we have already heard it today – a modernisation of the military structure, a redesign of the personnel assignment and a restructuring of the military procurement system. Normally, it would be natural that there should be no irresponsible expenditure in the area of armaments in times of social reduction by the ÖVP FPÖ coalition. [[Abg. Murauer: "Society reduction"? Socially safe! Don't break up!]] However, the Minister of Defence – and we cannot go in conformity there – does not find this irresponsible in the acquisition of military helicopters. Ladies and gentlemen! The purchase of new transport helicopters was decided after the disaster in Galtür by the former Federal Government – a particularly expensive variant, however, not, namely a 530 million schilling expensive combat version of a military helicopter! [[Abg. Young:...! Can you explain that to me?]] These helicopters are not needed to defend our national borders or to participate in international peacekeeping operations. [[Abg. Young: What armament do they have?]] Ladies and gentlemen! At a time when many sections of the population have to suffer severe financial loss, the waste of money cannot be taken note of by the Federal Ministry of State Defense. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, when I think about the youth: 530 million Schilling additional costs – 10 000 students in Austria could study free of charge for five years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, the Ministry, in the form of the Minister of State, rightly complains of the inadequate financial resources of its place of business, on the other hand, additional expenditure of half a billion schillings is made. At all events, the procurement processes need to be more transparent – and I believe this is secured under your aegis, because you, as a Member, have always criticized it. I hope that Federal Minister Scheibner will now also enforce this. Ladies and gentlemen! In the last ten years, when the People's Party introduced the Minister of Defence, we're both going to conform to billions of schilling. [[Abg. Murauer: And that wasn't all right, was it?]] You, Mr. Federal Minister, have very often experienced professional criticism. I can therefore say to you: If you go new ways, we will of course be with you. Translucency, transparency in procurement demands social democracy for years. The Federal Minister must resist the intrusion of the military lobbies and cannot acquire superior equipment, especially if it does not meet the new requirement profile of the federal army, as he has always demanded. [[Abg. Young: What do you mean by that?]] In addition, the purchase of the cheaper European production helicopter would be appropriate to the idea of European cooperation in military and economic matters. Ladies and gentlemen! My group and certainly also the Austrian people want the decision-making basis for the acquisition of helicopters to be announced to the public. [[Abg. Böhacker: He just explained it!]] I think all these new structures are right in your hand. If you invite the opposition, we will, although we cannot go along with some points, solve some point together. Federal Minister! I ask you: Get more transparency! Think about whether in the future you can account for more expenditure of half a billion schilling in times of social cuts!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4027	The next speaker is Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4048	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is precisely because a Member of the SPÖ, Mr Grabner, has spoken in front of me, that I would like to say my first sentence particularly consciously: We take the security of our country seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will make every effort to protect our fellow citizens from all possible dangers, and we will strive to maintain the security of the people. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But the protection of the soldiers is also at our heart. In order to achieve this, we are trying to make the best use of the resources available to us. We will ensure that the resources for the defence budget are certainly not reduced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In particular, the SPÖ is always talking about the importance of national defence, it will be fully committed to national defence, it will do everything – as I said before for our side. Then I am honestly sorry... – Mr Kummerer, I am going to tell you. [[Abg. Grabner: Who has put the ministers in the last ten years?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer:... confuse national defense with ÖAAB!]] ==References== In November, you published a "Press Information on the Budget Policy of the Federal Government". You know what's under point "2. Is there a lack of the additional expenditure provided for in the Government's programme? It says – I quote –: "Renouncing the planned increase of military expenditure brings a margin" – listen! – "of about 6 billion schilling in 2003 and around 2 billion in 2002." - Quote. So you can't take this seriously, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, we have a budget of 23 billion schilling. If you subtract 6 billion schilling from it, nothing will be left at all. [[Abg. Kiss: This is a scandal!]] Then you can really, as the Juso-Obmann says, disband the federal army. Then it is no longer available. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Is that so difficult... that you don't understand?]] This is dangerous for Austria, believe me! You can't do that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to address two things which I think are particularly important, which I have already done in the law of military, although I am sorry that I do not have so much time to speak – in the Committee, Mr Kummerer, we were able to talk about them. The assistance is striped, although it is very important. If I had more time, I'd give him much more attention. I support the Minister of State in this regard, where it is concerned. It can't be that the assistance in Burgenland is highly praised by all, but then, when it comes to the funds, it is not ready to raise them. It was not due to the emergency budget this year. However, we will constantly fight for this one billion schilling, which costs it, to flow into the Ministry's budget. It doesn't have to come from the Ministry of the Interior, we don't want to. We know that this assistance is provided for in § 2 of the Wehrgesetz. We need a special budget item, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is similar with the Eurocorp. The former government, consisting of SPÖ and ÖVP, has decided to make a contribution to the Euro Corps. We know that costs us about 4 billion schilling. We will see what we can count on KFOR troops and so on, that will be done properly. But since we have now agreed to update this 2 000 man to the Eurocorp, we also have to allocate the financial resources for it. And for that we will work in a special way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say the following: I was a few weeks ago – it was unfortunately God on the 11th. November, on our Burgenlander Landesfeiertag – together with a lady and two gentlemen for the first time in Bosnia, as a watchman of the elections there. We also visited our team. It makes an important contribution to peace in Europe, including peace in Austria. We in Austria have everything to do to equip our federal army in such a way that it is safe. I saw tombstones at the age of 1970 and younger. That must not happen in Austria. We have to equip our army accordingly, we have to ensure the security of our country. However, in terms of safety, it is always like this: When it comes to spending on money, everyone insults, everyone complains. But when it comes to a commitment that soldiers have to be there quickly, such as in Galtür, Kaprun and so on, no one asks what it has cost, then you always ask: If they've been fast enough, have they been well equipped? [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] No one asks what it cost! Our Minister of Defense is to be supported if he acquires the appropriate equipment. We will do everything we can to ensure that this happens, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4170	Mr Murauer came to the point of correcting the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4194	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Grabner falsely claimed that, under Federal Minister Fassleven and his officials, billions of schillings had been instigated. I am correct that under Federal Minister Fassleven and his officials, the finances have been handled with great care, and that these billions are in "consumer" and in the bank Burgenland.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4227	The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4248	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Loos! Of course, we also stand for the defence of the country. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Since when?]] In fact, my colleague! Always! [[Abg. Böhacker: But only with one leg! ... above the abyss!]] There are various representations of the size of the national defence budget. Now I don't want to deal with whether it's more or not. If it is more, Mr Federal Minister, I am pleased that you have more available for the defence of the country, but I would also like to say that I do not want to give this more in money to others, but if there could already be more money, I would like this money not instead, but also for the weak in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! The national defence budget for the next year leaves some questions open. Like some previous speakers, I would like to point out that we have committed ourselves to providing 2,000 soldiers for the European crisis intervention by 2003. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The need for preparatory measures in the area of equipment, personnel and organisation is probably understandable. Experts are also talking about budget resources of around 5 billion schilling. However, no resources are provided for these activities in this budget. Modern combat helmets and splitter protection are still not available in sufficient numbers, the operational capacity of the trucks is also falling rapidly. Some trucks are twice as old as their drivers. A successful federal army needs rationalization, the creation of slim and efficient structures, clear responsibilities, uniform planning, re-transmission of budget resources to the force and a reorientation of procurement. The largest share of expenditure is staff costs of 63 percent. It is therefore necessary in particular to reduce the central office and the entire administration and to adapt it to the actual extent of the army. From the purchase of helicopters to organisational questions to the topics of "Austria and NATO" and "Austria's contribution to European crisis management", the arch of the questions you, Mr. Defence Minister, do not always answer comprehensiblely or often leave open. In this way, your answers to the question remain, by which organisational measures the Federal Government's over-dimensional leadership structure is adapted to the new tasks, in the Committee, in the plenary and also in the media, unsatisfying. They are always referring to the adjustment of military division, which was carried out in 1998, in which structural measures were taken, but which were not significant enough. These measures have finally been completed in the summer, but a real reduction in internal administration is still pending and will not be taken seriously. While a project group is happy to work on reforms in the top-level division of the Ministry of Defence, results can only be expected at the end of this year, according to your statements. This is good and beautiful, but we are debating today the Heeresbudget 2001 which they will decide next week. It would therefore have been necessary to know now what we are talking about. But once again it is typical for the "party of small people": Last week in the High House, together with the votes of the ÖVP in the Wehrgesetz, you have dramatically increased the penalties for the small presenters, but with the great ones at the top of the administration you and your working groups can be given an amazing amount of time. In the same way, let us leave the honourable Member and the public in the dark about the NATO future of Austria that you are seeking. I don't think it's good to probe secretly with NATO diplomats. I'll invite you to: Put the cards on the table, give us here in Parliament, but also the Austrian public pure wine! They are always saying that the question of possible accession to NATO is not on the agenda during the current legislative period. That's right, because time is too short for that. But what happens after this legislative period? It is, I think, your democratic duty to say now what you want, how you want it and when you want to join! Since today we are not only talking about the money, but also about the money: What will a NATO accession actually cost us? How do you continue to burden the people with your military fantasies? They always deviate and say that the NATO question is to be decided by the Government, Parliament and the Austrian people by means of a referendum. - Good! But this does not debine you, as I believe, from the task of presenting your concepts, your proposals and your financial calculations at the beginning of the parliamentary discussion process. The referendum is only at the end of the decision-making process. On a question so important for Austria's future They're already plunging and giving you clear information today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A final clarification. No one in the SPÖ disputes the need for a modern national defence, which is set up in accordance with their duties. It was the SPÖ that proposed in the previous year to examine exactly what form is appropriate for this: the general obligation of military service or a volunteer army. This question should not be assessed by ideological glasses, but by the criteria of costs, benefits and efficiency in the context of a pan-European security policy. Furthermore, the SPÖ always points to the special importance of civil service, because we social democrats are convinced that young people who want to serve not with the weapon but in other ways of society should have the right to do so for reasons of conscience. But from the point of view of the Federal Government, these people are blackbergers and cowards, to which you have to make it as difficult as possible. [[Abg. Murauer: How do you get on it?]] Civil servants and presenters are equally important to our society. The civil servants have not deserved to be treated as second-class citizens as you do by this government over and over again. In contrast, make the service of the Federal Army more attractive to young people. If the states in the federal army are good and the training is useful – and above all is felt to be useful – then I believe that young people will be happy to provide the presence service. But to dramatically increase the punishments for those present without reason, as last week has happened, is the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Murauer, you have said that all parties are invited to the talks. That's all your opinion. However, I will then invite you: Do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4352	The next speaker was Mr Zellot. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4373	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, if we are speaking today about the defence budget, the Minister, the military and also very many speakers from this House are not satisfied with the amount of this budget. [[the speaker points towards SPÖ]] Today, however, I would like to take the opportunity to say that the Austrian federal army has always had to cook on spasms, even in the past. However, it was nevertheless able to pursue its objectives and achieve these objectives, especially the training objectives. When it was called to help, no matter what the need, the order was also fulfilled. I say this consciously, because only a motivated cadre staff, controlled by commanders, whether corps command or military command, is able to train people into soldiers in order to achieve the goal of comprehensive national defense and deployment at elementary events. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Army has an alliance, namely a strong alliance with the Austrians. The Austrian federal army is valued more by the Austrian people than by some political party here in this House. [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that some points are still among the potential savings. This concerns the command stations. In recent times, it has been shown that the military commanders, commanders in the individual federal states, are more powerful than ever because of their links with the offices, and therefore, of course, commanders such as the military command in the individual federal states are to be received in any form whatsoever. Many criticisms have also been made about the procurement of helicopters today. – Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time when there are very many elementary events, not only in Austria, but also in Europe, yes, all over the world, to which you can always watch inactionlessly. Then, when something happens, it's too late to say: Would we have done more for security? I think the Federal Minister has taken a right step towards this: The security of personnel and the security of our young soldiers is thus put in the foreground. I think this is very important and would like to congratulate you, Mr Federal Minister, on this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One important point, of course, is that modernisation of transport, such as the transport of crews, is the necessary focus to make transport more modern and efficient in the future. Of course, it is also important – and in this defence budget some posts are included – that we consider maintaining and improving the quality of life of our soldiers, such as the accommodations. This is an essential point that shows that the state defense also provides for the interpersonal area, namely that the soldiers are best accommodated. Furthermore, the additional expenditure for the military homes has been criticized. But it is not about the fact that a soldier's home is almost enriching! The Soldiers' Home is a place to stay and a communication center for our recruits. It is important that it also offers contemporary, modern standards.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4445	As the next speaker, Mrs Pepper is speaking. If desired, the clock is set to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4467	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before: I, too, become the Federal Army, even though some do not lose my weight. [[Congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ, the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We will be able to see this in your speech, and also in the voting behaviour!]] For ten years now the German army has been holding watch at the Austrian eastern border. If it went to the population, it remained a permanent state. Since the beginning of 1990, around 211 000 soldiers have been in service, currently about 2 200 soldiers are in the border. More than two thirds of them are groundmen. Their duration of use is an average of six weeks. Since 1990, some 45 000 illegal border workers have been attacked by the army. Currently, more than 1,460 kilometres of the EU's external border are being guarded. It is gratifying that the border use is also secured in the budget. Of course – and I am of your opinion, Federal Minister – the Ministry of the Interior should also contribute to the relief of the defence budget. The soldiers are in service day and night. The highest level of concentration is required, and there is a constant risk of conflict with armed tractors who want to bring illegal refugees to our country over and over the Green Border. Again and again, people who think they can improve their lives are being attacked. But the fact that they come into a greater dilemma only becomes aware of the refugees when they attack. Also for the soldiers, this service at the border with God is no honey licking, especially since now the salary of the border soldiers is also reduced. In contrast, the salary for foreign use is increased by a quarter to make this service more tasty for the soldiers. I see in it a certain injustice. Our border soldiers are also subject to a great burden. In my previous speeches on the use of assistance, I have repeatedly dealt with the incidents in border use, more precisely with the suicide of the German army. I have also asked questions to you, Mr Federal Minister. I would like to comment briefly on some of the answers. The following figures are available for the period 1995 to 2000: Suicide: 83, of which 22 in 1998; Death-stricken accidents: 131, death of basic defence workers in total: 117, total deaths in the framework: 245. – These numbers would have to encourage us to think a little bit. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Please also say that no one was associated with the mission!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Don't be irritated!]] Unfortunately, the answer to the question does not show which and how many Commissions of Inquiry have been used to collect causes of death over the last ten years. Especially that passage, in which it is said that the soldiers are basically not subject to extreme "psychical and physical stress", as they are "prepared for the assistance" in "their training", has made me thinkful. To this end, I would like to say: Getting used to extreme situations through appropriate training does not mean that these people are no longer under extreme burden. In the best case, you only learn to respond specifically or as you wish to respond to such strains, but it has nothing to do with a discharge and normalization! The answer to the question also states that "the suicide rate in the federal army is less than that in the civil field" and "by the way" is also "no case documented", "in which the cause of a suicide in connection with the service operation in the federal army would be sought". [[Federal Minister Scheibner: That's it!]] – Mr Federal Minister, I find this answer a little convenient. It is about the fact that this issue is finally being discussed self-critically within the federal army. As a result, measures could be taken to prevent tragic events of this kind. I would like to highlight an example in Burgenland that there is a rethinking phase, which I definitely imagine. 28. July 2000: Illmitz's ground defense officers' fishing observation in the angle of the lake. In the course of this event, a soldier in the field of assistance shot a colleague through improper action with the weapon in his leg – I no longer know whether in left or right. The military commander of the Burgenland, Divisional Dialer, told me that he thought he had to be in the Gendarmerie post at 9:30 p.m. Pamhagen, where the soldier was told that his parents would also be present. Spontaneously, I asked Divisional Dialers if I could be there. A very quiet and reasonable conversation with the soldier and also a longer conversation with the parents in my presence then took place. On my question to Mr Divisionary, whether this is always handled in this way, he said, in fact. Of course, he knows I'm very interested in these incidents, and he understands me. I admit that improvements can be noted in the handling of these incidents. After all, it is human beings and not any material used. Every dead person – no matter where – is too much! However, there is still a need for action, and I can therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to continue to work on this matter, to take this issue seriously and to deal with it accordingly. I would ask you to do better than your predecessor, who has not shown any responsibility in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4547	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4568	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A few brief answers to questions, first of all to one of my previous speakers: I know you're very involved in this very sensitive area. You are right when you say that it is important that the federal army – and I say, like all other public institutions – do everything in its power to help with social problems – whether it is suicide, drug problems or other problems – that occur in its areas, no matter where the causes are, in order to prevent, above all, such problems, such as suicide, but also all other accidents. I believe that the federal army really does everything to prevent things that are preventable. You know, though, when you deal with the matter of suicide, that in many areas the signs are not recognizable at all and you can usually react only when it is too late. Nevertheless, these measures have led to the fact that, as you have already said, the suicide rate is fortunately lower in the federal army than in the comparable population outside the army. We must point out, however, that the suicide we have been investigating so far is not directly related to the operation of the service. They have addressed the overall use of assistance. I think I have already commented on the fundamental problem. They also referred to the use allowances and meant that a reduction would be made. I would say that there will be a change in the system, and this will lead – and this would be my aim – to the fact that more will be available to the basic defence servants you have addressed, who are in the bulk dealing with this assistance effort than before. They know that these are a few hundred schillings which are in no relation to what they are doing for the Republic. This is the aim of this change: not only for foreign operations, but also for the militia, but also for the basic defence workers, to be able to make more premiums. They also called for assistance. . We are discussing the budget here today, and in this context I would like to point out that the Austrian economy has saved 20 billion schillings by using assistance in Burgenland alone. This commitment has burdened the defense budget over the last ten years with about 10 billion schilling – this is the figure when you calculate everything together – and this sum has not been replaced either. We know that this commitment, if other institutions had taken over it to the extent required and with the same efficiency, would probably have cost twice. I would ask you to take this into account when it comes to future procurement projects. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Kaipel referred to helmets and trucks. We will provide 10,000 additional helmets for our soldiers next year, and the procurement of 200 trucks will begin. You have said that many questions remain open, there is too little information. – Of course, many issues are still open at the moment, but I have tried to give the possible current information to both the National Defence Council and the Committee and to inform you that working groups are being used in the various areas, such as the working group on recasting the Security and Defence Doctor, such as the working group on the evaluation of the military system, where incentive systems are being considered, which make it possible for us to give our soldiers a better content of experience and experience within the framework of their military service. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to go a different way. We should not first discuss matters politically, but first let the experts raise up and let the experts create the basis for the political discussions. I myself am not currently interfering in the activities of these working groups – I am telling you that quite openly and honestly – but I am waiting for the results, and then we will discuss them. I made it clear that, of course, I value the fact that there is a broad discussion, including involving the opposition, but also involving the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The same is true of NATO, Mr Kaipel. I have always said – and made no secret of it – that it would have been my goal that Austria would have been in the first round of NATO enlargement. This would have had a positive effect not only on security policy but also on economic policy. If I now look at the billions and billions of investment in the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary, I would like at least some of these billions to be invested in Austria. But that is over, and for this legislative period we know that a next round of enlargement is probably not up-to-date, and that there is currently no political consensus. We agreed that, in addition to political consensus, there must also be a vote in the population on it. We have clear objectives for this legislative period, objectives which can also be implemented, because you have already decided them in the previous government and because we also acknowledge them, and this is Austria's participation in the European Union's common security and defence policy. This brings me to the criticism of the Greens in this area and also to the question of neutrality. You know my opinion on this too. I was always of the opinion that the classical understanding of neutrality since the fifties is incompatible with the accession of Austria to the European Union alone, is incompatible with the clear commitment given by the then Federal Government, that is to say, without delay to the common market. to participate in the European Union's foreign and security policy. This has nothing to do with the conditions for classical neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We also mentioned these things, didn't we?]] But I have already heard from the previous Federal Government how to interpret the law of neutrality, which naturally exists, not to participate in a war, no permanent stationing of foreign soldiers and no membership in a military alliance. If it had not been a problem, you should not have decided on this article 23f. It is part of the Austrian Federal Constitution, and with this interpretation, which has also provided social-democratic German Chancellors with regard to the Neutrality Act, there is a sufficient constitutional basis for the participation of Austria in the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy. Only we follow that – no more, but no less, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: And the duty of assistance?]] You said we were pursuing a security concept of the previous century. I do not want to discuss the safety concepts of the last century. Of course, it is important to have a comprehensive security concept, where we also put crisis prevention in the foreground – well, of course! – where we are discussing crisis management, but also crisis response. Nevertheless, we must take note – and that would be a consensus – that military aspects must also be included in this comprehensive security concept. When we think of the terrible catastrophe of the last ten years in the Balkans: You, too, know very well that through beautiful words and negotiations such war criminals are unfortunately not to be found in the barriers and that it is necessary – although not enough – to solve such problems with a certain military capacity. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is a strange understanding of prevention!]] They ask: What is the threat to Austria? – Mrs Lunacek: What threat has there been in 1990? We were all euphoric and said: Destruction of Communism, detachment of blocks, now an age of peace, freedom and security is beginning in Europe! – Only a year later, Austrian soldiers had to go out to secure the country south against Serbian troops. The same people – including politicians – who here in Parliament just a few years earlier have brought in mistrust against defence ministers who have bought the Draken, then called exactly after these Dragons when the first Serbian MIGs flew over Graz. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who called? We didn't call!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] They have rightly called for it, for it is the right of the people and also of politics that they call after the federal army when it is needed. We only need to take precautions before something happens to be able to react accordingly in a serious case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are going the right way: that we will first discuss a security and defence doctor comprehensively, that we will define the orders to defend the country, and then we will also start the discussion on military divisions and also on the needs of personnel and procurement. As far as the support for this is concerned, I would ask that not only here in Parliament, but also when it is unpopular, it is not only to express this support in the case of fishing, that is, even if funds are to be spent in order to make these orders fulfilled. I am not worried about the mood in the population: 250 000 spectators at the "Air-Power 2000" when we presented our air forces, 400 000 viewers in our presentations on 26th October. October 2000. More than 1 million Austrians have given their clear vote at military events for the Austrian state defense. That gives us courage, that gives us confidence that we have a common alliance with the Austrians, and that is it. The Austrian soldiers are only committed to Austria and the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4687	Mrs Petrovic spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen, observe the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4711	Mr President. High house! The Federal Minister said that a Member of Parliament would have initially filed a request for distrust against a Minister of Defense in connection with the purchase of Dragons, and shortly after the use of these Dragons in connection with the Bosnia crisis. This is unfair, for it was green Members who voted against the purchase of Dragon. Never – at any time! – anyone from the Greens has approved the Dragon purchase or even after a mission called these Dragons.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4741	Mr Herbert Graf is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4771	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear gentlemen, officers of the Ministry of Defence! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, dear youth who is here today! [[towards gallery]] I am very pleased that you are taking part in this discussion, because many of you will be concerned if you start your military service soon. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Civil Service! That's a lot of civilians!]] Mrs Petrovic, you are so concerned about the good, the good culture. First of all, I would like to ask you if I have heard correctly that you have called during the speech by Mr Scheibner: Such a fool! Or did I hear it wrong? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They'll never admit that!]] I heard it wrong, didn't I? – Whether I can hear well, you can’t judge. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Whether you hear well, I can't judge!]] At present I have six sixths of my hearing ability. I'm still fully capable of military service. I have therefore heard this well and hold it here once. Ladies and gentlemen! All of this goes exactly in the direction of what I said yesterday: The opposition only makes headline policy. You only make headline policy, you see that you get into the paper with something fast, whether this concerns sanctions, whether this concerns anti-atomic policy, where you bind the foreign meshes where you demand – I'll get to the matter right now! – that the ElWOG should be preferred, but previously voted against whether the BSE or many others. [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] Today's debate, ladies and gentlemen, is again seamless in the category of headline policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to say that Mr Scheibner, the Federal Minister, has presented a very excellent budget within the framework of the possibilities given, a budget which – and that has not yet been mentioned – is punctual... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] Yes, Mr. Oberleutnant Kummerer, you have also called for the increase in the budget. "In the context of the opportunities given", you said. "In the context of the possibilities given". [[Abg. Kiermaier: Captain is him!]] - Captain. – I apologize! I would like to refer in particular to the savings approaches: Rental for properties and premises: a very blatant saving approach of 2.4 million schilling on 300 000 s. Maintenance of buildings: As a result of a corresponding outlay, these budget items are virtually lost. This is a reduction of 253 million to 25 million schilling. The Federal Minister has also saved in his own field, and he has also saved in his office. If you look at representation expenditure, you will also see an blatant reduction from 3.4 million to about 2.8 million schilling. The federal army has to get to the border! Mrs Petrovic has just made a correction. The federal army has to get to the border! - Yes, who said that? Has this been said by our President-in-Office? The Minister of Defence 1991? No, that was what Mr Pilz said at the time, who wanted to make us aware of civil, social defence before, to speak to the tank crews of the Warsaw Pact states and to make it clear to them that they are doing wrong. That would be the only way to stop the armed conflict. Mrs Lichtenberger! With your statement that the interception hunters should be used against the torture, you may have declassified yourself enough. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] However, you are right, partly right, if you say that the security concept is from the past century. It's not quite right, it's 25 years old. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is the past century!]] It should be noted here that the past federal governments unfortunately did not respond in time to the evolutionary development, especially to the decline of the Warsaw Pact. That is why our Minister of State has also commissioned the preparation of a new national defence plan in a Commission, where each of you can express your opinion. I can only hope that this will be done just as much as the 1975 National Defence Plan, which has been unanimously decided here in Parliament. I hope that you will also once again be united in your commitment to the defence of the state. Mr Grabner, you said it was secretly negotiated with NATO. - I can't see anything. We visited NATO Secretary-General Robertson. There has been a large reception by President Fischer, and after this reception, Secretary-General Robertson has also participated in a discussion with parliamentarians. He explained the matter to us. He invited us to participate in the peace partnership. This has also found one-bright approval. However, a little declassified was the whole thing when Mrs. Lichtenberger presented him with the Austrian neutrality statement in a glass image, as if he did not know. But please, this is your thing. They say there is no higher target for the population than neutrality. To this end, I can tell you: There is no higher goal for our people than to continue to preserve the democratic fundamental rights of all Austrians in a secure state of Austria. That must be the credo: that there is security for a free development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Grabner said that on many points he was involved in the defence budget, that in some respects he was not involved in the defence policy. Yes to which points go You with me? Have the courage and decide on this budget chapter! Then we know that common national defence – as has always been the case in recent years – is a common concern for you. You have also made this known in the Committee, but I assume that this is also a headline policy, that you say, in principle, you are also opposed to the best proposals of the new Federal Government. Mr Scheibner has presented very good approaches with this budget, but you simply do not participate. So again, headline policy, nothing else! It was a great pleasure for me, Mr Schieder, to celebrate the 40th anniversary. Anniversary at the Officers' Society in Graz in the course of a panel discussion. You have given very clear answers there. If you have just said in the discussion: But you do not have to be in an alliance!, Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would remind you that during this discussion you said to the Austrian Officers' Society that, even after your feelings, no way will pass by another alliance. That's logged. Or didn't you say that? – A European defence alliance will pass. [[Abg. Arbitrators: At a European defence identity, I said!]] That's what I'm praising, yes! They have strength, courage and strength to define this clearly. I liked it. If you say here today that there are approaches to most of the chapter National Defence which you might agree to, I ask you to: Then you'll agree!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4917	Mr Kostelka has been mentioned as the next speaker. I liked to set the clock to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e4939	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The debate on the national defence budget is about to end, and there has been a great deal of talk about it. [[Abg. Kiss: Now you are there at once!]] But I am convinced that we are the budget chapter of the state defense today – today! – not only should we deal with the budget, the equipment and the number of commander levels, but it is also about the reputation of the federal army and its representatives. However, ladies and gentlemen, the main thing here today has been silenced, although in the early days, for each of you acceptable, statements have been made against the chief commander of the federal army, who cannot be accepted in any way for the man Dr. Klestil or the carrier of this office. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I want to hold back consciously, but I must say at least that the liberal clubman in the Salzburger Landtag found it necessary to prove before running cameras to our presidents with an expression that according to "deads" means as much as: characterally inferior, careless, fraudulent, imperviously acting person. – Ladies and gentlemen! It's so huge that there should have been a cry all over the country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Once again – once again! – the Federal Chancellor, but also the Federal Minister for Defence, in this debate in the House, did not consider it necessary to make a single comment. But that was not the only thing, ladies and gentlemen. – Why is this federal government actually silent? How can it be responsible for not saying to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that he would have damaged the interests of Austria with sustainability and made Austria bad abroad? – You know that the opposite is true – but you are silent, ladies and gentlemen! Please take note of the vast majority of Austrians who have elected these Federal Presidents! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or does your democratic understanding not even reach that far? I would just like to add the following comment because there is a certain commitment to completeness: Mr Schnell found it necessary to compare the President of the Federal Republic with an animal. [[Call the SPÖ: Awesome!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, in view of these immeasurable things: Where is your democratic understanding, where is your self-understanding as a human being in this context? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are silent, while the Federal President is being disdained as a human being. My group has immediately adopted a resolution expressly stating that we reject these statements and also demand the same from the government and, of course, expect them to withdraw quickly. In the last few minutes, I have found a statement from the head of state of Carinthia. I thought – thought for a short time – that I can hope. But, ladies and gentlemen, this excuse, you have to read it through – as is usual with Jörg Haider – and then the monsterity becomes clear for a second time. Do you know what he said in this regard? – He has little understanding, said Jörg Haider – that is, a lot, but not much – for such expressions, and in this context he notes that this is not your style. – There is nothing taken back, ladies and gentlemen, but only a little different should have formulated quickly. That's your way of dealing with the supreme organ of this republic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: "Dobermann" you called my colleague Stadler!]] In the final sentence, Mr. Landeshuptmann of Carinthia finds it necessary to apologise for this behaviour, with the "Salzburger Steerwascher-Mentality". – This, ladies and gentlemen, is another insult, and I am convinced that every decent Salzburgian wants nothing to do with it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Much has been said yesterday about respect for democracy – including respect for people and for elected bodies. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, my group is very much calling for clarity – and we are also putting forward a motion for a resolution on this point. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So far you have brought it with your expression, with your policy: that in this country, here in the House, it is necessary to make such a request. I strongly urge you to prove at least the last remnants of a democratic understanding by giving your approval to this request, because, ladies and gentlemen, at least the President of the Federal Republic – and thus the direct democratic decision behind him – should stand out as a human being, as chief commander of the federal army and as head of state.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5084	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5108	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It was, in turn, a model example of Mr Kostelka here in this House, especially in the direction of the head of state of Carinthia with incomplete quotations, to come to the speaker's desk with untruths. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Where has the untruth been said?]] Head of State Dr. Haider has completely distanced himself from the Causa at 10:48 a.m. today – like any liberal Member – in the APA, he has requested an apologies, and he expects Mr. Schnell to take this back in an appropriate form. - You didn't quote that! You're always just quoting. We are dissociating ourselves from this expression by my colleague, Mr Schnell – this is what I am saying here! – but we just as distance ourselves from expressions of SPÖ and Greens in relation to the liberals when animal comparisons take place there. [[Complaints with the liberals]] It is not long ago, the clubman of the Freedom Party was compared here in the High House to a dog – several times! – by Mr Pilz and his colleagues. It's not long ago, since everyone laughed from these rows, as colleague Klubobmann Stadler was called "Dobermann" – also as a dog. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are still laughing today – and that is really the double-landiness of the policies you are running. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is not long ago, since the SPÖ, together with the Greens here in the House, has not only begun systematic qualification of the Federal President Klestil, but has carried it out. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] At that time, together with the ÖVP, we were the only ones who looked to ensure that the competences of the Federal President were not eroded. I remember when, after the nomination of a proposal for a threesome, because the President of the Federal Republic has not chosen the socialist party comrades you have taken as the highest court, immediately agreed upon his competence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner]] Today, after the Federal President Kletil has sat in a boat with you during the government order or at the time of the fishing visit – and that was truly not a happy role of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany – he becomes your ally. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Stop! Stop it!]] That's double-pocket! [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a scandal you are performing!]] They are blind on one eye when it comes to seeing things differentiated. When it comes to blasphemy of the liberals, you support it and are still willing to do so, and if it fits you in the Chamber, then in this House you will present any opinion of a state politician, no matter what weight it is ultimately. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not scandalizing, that's a scandal...!]] That's your kind of policy - we don't share these either, I'm telling you at this point. We distance ourselves from this way of political debate in word and style, including a colleague's quick, but we also distance ourselves from the way in which your policy is, when it comes to constantly comparing the liberals here in this House with animals! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] Stop being blind here on an eye. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Finally take your responsibility as the largest opposition party!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5242	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5271	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on national defence, the Greens have repeatedly been accused of neglecting the security feelings of the population and the security of Austria. State defense – we're talking about it, aren't we? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How does that look like what's hidden behind that word? Is it not also part of this that, when the President-in-Office of the Austrian Federal Government is attacked in a rather unbearable, unbearable way, is the House taking a clear and clear position on this matter?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This also means that the Federal Minister, at least as already mentioned by a speaker, rejects the attacks on the President. Did we hear anything about it? Is that not part of the topic of national defence? Is it not also a task of the Federal Government or of the Minister to call in a federal state a wild underrun of Mr. Haider – I really take this expression into my mouth; otherwise it cannot be referred to – to find clear words here? Ladies and gentlemen! Because you feel so addressed by animal comparisons, you feel disdained, Mr Graf: It was not the representatives of the Social Democrats, not the representatives of the Greens who put the "Dobermann" in their mouths to the then clubman Stadler, but it was Mr Stadler himself who said: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did Mr. Edlinger say that we are pigs?]] I'm Dobermann! - Yes, that's it! You can read it in the minutes. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Don't wonder that you will get dog comparisons presented elsewhere. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Edlinger makes pig comparisons!]] You can see this in the context, since Mr. Kabas, with his unscrupulous statement on the "Lump" federal president and the partial verbal withdrawal from "Hump" and "Dump" several months ago, then again "Lump", even exposed to the suspicion that he does not fully know what he is talking about. But now this is confirmed, ladies and gentlemen: The liberal officials – that does not start with Kabas; and they are not simple officials – believe that the Federal President is a national traitor. That's confirmed. We still remember Mr Haider's statements, in which he put the accusation of the treason of the state in the direction of climate and in the direction of Kletil. We remember the retired Federal Minister Schmid, who also said: Yeah, that's country treason. Mr. Kabas then aptly applied these words and coined them to the "noise", then took them back. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What is "apported" for a language use?- Oh, my God!]] Now, Mr. Fast comes and says – I quote –: "Lump was actually a too harmless expression. If you look up this word in the dictionary, you will find it, and with us in the Pinzgau you call Lumpi a dog." Mr Graf! You don't think anything else but to say that the animal comparisons are inappropriate? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I said that anyway! I've distanced myself from it anyway!]] Have you ever heard in a characterization of a chosen organ from our side, after which we accused him of being a lump, a land traitor? Did you ever hear that? Yes or no? – And that is the incredible thing about this debate! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the statement of the head of state Haider. [[Abg. Achatz: How was Milošević?]] My colleague, Mr Graf, has tried to disarm this. But I will tell you the following, Mr Graf [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Press Service! Black on white!]] It goes on to say in Mr Haider's statement: "A unique verbal slipper would be understandable and culpable." – This is not directly mentioned, but it is in line with what Mr Haider said in this debate: [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "No understanding," he said!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: "No understanding"!]] After that, we see it as a one-time slipper of the Lord Quick – that is meant – even if one does not have to understand it or if one should have only little understanding. Let us consider it a unique slipper that is due to the famous Salzburg bullwasher humanity. This statement by Mr Haider is to be understood. Mr. Schnell must apologise, say something. There will be something that will come to mind, Mr. Fast, just: In any other democracy, in any other country, this expression of such an undercurrent would lead to its resignation, and that would be of course. We also call for the resignation of the Lord quickly! What Mr Schnell has spread to all the public in this regard is unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But the point is also: It is also unacceptable how Mr Haider now adopts himself as a bidderman by his arson. This is unacceptable, after all, it was Mr. Haider who, with the treason of the state, operated with the high treason towards the President of the Federal Republic, who put this accusation in the room, who was then taken up by the Minister of Justice with the statement: You could have done something with mandates! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider, with his statement on the treason of the state, and Mr Schmid, with his statement on the treason of the state, was also unbearable in her political functions alone because of such statements. They accuse an organ of the Republic of a highly criminal act without proving it. It is not a question of simply bringing an accusation here in the political debate, but of assuming that a crime has been committed with specific threats of punishment. Put that in the room and accuse someone without proving it, then feed it with restless attacks like "Lump", "Hump" and "Dump" is abominable. The accusation "Lump" is still too little, says Mr. Fast, there is still something to be put on it. He just didn't find the right language for that. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is unbearable, and we, the National Council, should distance ourselves from it. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The resignation of the Lord quickly is a command of the hour. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Immediately, this Lord, who is unbearable, will withdraw! That's the minimum! But it is also the minimum, Dr. Khol, that the ÖVP finally finds a position on this question and does not even hide when attacks against the institutions of that Republic are addressed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5483	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Ollinger, Mrs Freunden, has been sufficiently supported and is also under negotiation. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke on an actual correction. – Please, ladies and gentlemen, start with § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure with the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5513	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Oellinger said that the head of state had said: Let's see the expression Quickly as a unique slipper. – This claim by Mrs Oellinger is wrong! On the contrary: According to a broadcast of the APA, the head of state of Carinthia Dr. Haider said: "No understanding for the attacks of the Salzburg FP-Obmann Karl Schnell". - Nothing! Mr. Kostelka has made it a little "understanding". [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (keeping a newspaper article in height) That's right here!]] It goes on to say, "against... Kle Stil showed on Wednesday the head of the Kärntner state Jörg Haider (F). He apologized quickly. The party could not order good behavior, says Haider." I mean, even in such an emotional debate, one should stick to the truth, both you, Mr Ollinger, and you, Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5557	Reported as next word... [[Abg. Oils: Answer!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Parliament does not work at call!]] Mr Oellinger spoke on a personal reply to the actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5618	Mrs Partik-Pablé! In your actual correction, you have corrected something which was not to be corrected, because you assumed that I should have mis-quoted Mr Haider. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is not a personal response!]] I quoted Mr Haider from an APA issue with the sentence: "A unique verbal slipper would be understandable and culpable." [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I wrote exactly what you said! You have made a wrong connection!]] – You have not been able to address this fact, because it is also contained in the APA notice. That's why my claim is true.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5673	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the representatives of the Austrian People's Party, I should like to say clearly and clearly: We disapprove of the choice of words, the expression and the thought behind the statements of the politician, which stand for discussion here. We distance ourselves from it with all the clarity. We reject such a language. We shall also reject the motions for resolutions, because we do not want to upgrade these politicians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5739	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5760	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not need a call or a call from anyone to comment on it, although this is not, of course, the subject of the budget chapter, and I have only received an APA message and now, through your statements, had no opportunity to talk to the person concerned about what he really said. But: If this statement is as good as you present it here, as it has come about the APA, then it was of course an unqualified statement that is to be rejected – as it always is to be refused when people are compared to animals when people are considered with unqualified statements. We should all keep this in mind – no matter who it is –! And these principles of communication and dignity to the other people should be remembered again and again!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5791	The next item is the speech by Mr Kiermaier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I too have to speak about this causa. Some things are already very interesting in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! The choice of words is a single scandal, more can't be said about it, because it's to be read that "Lump" is actually a harmless expression, because that's how he called his dog, fast. – And now it comes, ladies and gentlemen, which is very worrying: "under the applause of his party friends". – You have to break that on your tongue! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A slipper of this kind is a disaster on and on itself, but if there are still people from one's own family there, that's what I think is the summit of monsterity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to let that break on your tongue! Ladies and gentlemen! I grew up at a time when the image of the Federal President in every school class hung and vis-à-vis the crucifix. The Federal President was for us children an authority that was simply undisputed. For the good functioning of a democracy, this is also an important thing. If one considers what huge rights and what great responsibility the head of state has in our country, then one must say that this incident is immense. I too believe that Mr Schnell should step back on the spot, because his statement goes on even further. He then said: Of course there's him. We all know, I think, from the Pinzgau this expression: My dog was called Lumpi, because he was a nice, nice Falott. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's incredible! Something else is added: a very interesting message, ladies and gentlemen, which should also encourage us to think a little bit – also the colleagues from the ÖVP. Do you know what quickly said towards the Minister of the Interior? – It's called in the APA: "At the same time, the "spitting services" of the police quickly defended. Without leadership, there could be no democracy, because certain things would never come to light, he said." – Again under the applause of his friends. Something else is very interesting: There is an APA notification in which Prime Minister immediately distanced himself very clearly from this matter. And I have also heard with great interest the statements made by Mr Scheibner. So there seem to be more or less two currents in this party; I find that more and more often. There are forces in this party that simply don't accept such slippers, but also others that they like internally – and that's a bad thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Who is it called good?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They then wanted to compensate for these statements with other animal names. I would therefore like to say once again: The term "Königskobra" comes from April 1998, also from Mr. Schnell. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The "blue pigs" come from someone else!]] To make this clear, so that you can look for the debtor in the right place as well. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address something because it is about the budget, and I would like to say a few words to Parliament regarding our place of work, our place of action. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You've been through your No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is interesting that in the reform states, Parliaments are already more modern today than in Austria. You prevented that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's state defense?]] It would have been a long time for an electronic voting machine in this House – but you have done so by [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The wrong theme!]] Your veto's inconsistency. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is actually bad, even for the ladies and gentlemen who have to work here in the house. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is your contribution to the defense budget?- Oh, my God!]] To conclude: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the other parties! Take to heart today's statements in your further reflections on how we should deal with each other in this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e5926	Mr Van der Bellen is next spoken. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6009	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to predict that I do not consider the person of the Federal President to be sakrosanct. It is not necessary to speak sacredly to the President of the Federal Republic, whatever his name is. One can express criticism, one can ask questions. Of course, but I mean, with due respect for the institution! [[It was in favour of the Greens and SPÖs as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] He's not anyone. This respect for the institution seems to be lost in this country. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Since when is he your friend, Mr. Van der Bellen!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: They wanted to abolish the Federal President's institution!]] It's not the first time either. First, we didn't know: Should we laugh at it or attack it when Mr. Kabas' "Lump, Hump, Dump" saw him. After all, he is the state partyobmann and clubman of the Vienna Freeman. It's an innocuous statement! At the time, I recommended that the President of the Federal Republic complain. He didn't do it. Looking back, I think it was probably a right decision on his part not to go to this level. What's happening to Mr. Schnell: After all, he is a head of the Freedom, the head of the Salzburg Liberties, the clubman of the Liberties in the Salzburger Landtag – and the Freeman covers what he says – directly or indirectly. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You didn't listen!]] Mr Trattner! I can only remind you: You can have different opinions on the so-called top coward, but do you think it is right to compare the investigating police with the Gestapo, the investigating prosecutors? This was Mr. Schnell from Salzburg. When the media held him in a single light: Well, listen, Gestapo, don't you know what you're saying? Then it was the methods of the KGB. A head of state, a clubman isn't anyone. Haider may not be able to – how did he say? – ensure good conduct in the party – for thousands of members this is, of course, right – but Mr. Schnell is not anyone. And now that! Ladies and gentlemen! At the political level, we can call for the resignation of the Lord, and we do so too, but the National Council cannot force this resignation. But the National Council can do more than nothing: In my opinion, this House should at least one-sidedly express its dismay at what happened. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] With 'this house' I mean not only the Green Group and the Socialist Group, but in particular the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] You will not agree to the forthcoming requests, you will refuse a simple gesture; the simple gesture towards the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that this House is upset that this House does not accept what is happening here that this House clearly distances itself from the fact that the Ministers and the Federal Government are asked to do the same. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] This is too much for you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I do not want to go into the fact that the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil was set up by you at the time – this does not matter in this context either. They are unable to set such a gesture of solidarity with President Klestil. I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, are taking part in the underminement of democratic institutions in that country. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Don't put this on, Mr. Khol. It's not enough if you go to the speaker's desk here and say: We do not agree with this anyway if you expressly refuse the only gesture of solidarity with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany at the same time. I'm not asking you to be ashamed, but I have to tell you honestly: I am ashamed of you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6119	Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6141	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The debate was quite significant again. Let's recapitulate what happened. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Heeresbudget!]] The Salzburger FPÖ-Parteiobmann Quickly, not for the first time in the vocabulary – not for the first time! If one reads all the statements made yesterday, it is noted that the blasphemy of the Federal President is only part of the whole matter, for in the same speech he pointed out that leadership would be necessary for democracy. – Only so much about the democratic understanding of Mr Fast, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The same Mr. Schnell, who compares the investigations of the Ministries with Gestapo methods, the same Mr. Schnell, Federal Minister Strasser, wants to take responsibility for what is being examined here, the same Mr. Schnell, who appears with unbearable statements every week, has again gone up to convict the Federal President. And what reactions came from your side? What did Mr. Graf do here? – He did not talk about the Federal President, he did not talk about the slanders, but he immediately said that there were attacks against the FPÖ again. What you lack is a clear distinction between victims and perpetrators. That is why you have no rightful awareness, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is obviously difficult for you to distance yourself quite clearly, for it is not only fast in your party that makes such statements. That's what Mr. Kabas and others do. That is to say, the humane moral image of this party is quickly again hardened by Mr. Fast, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! If you say that you do not need to be asked to stand behind the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, I must tell you that you should have done so, because what Mr Schnell said was clear since early today. It's been over hours on the radio and over the media. I would have expected a Federal Minister of State Defense to put himself behind the Chief Commander without a call, and not allow the office of the President of the Federal Republic to be depreciated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And your opinion, Mr Khol, was anything but poor. [[Cheerfulness and demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] If your only argument is not to vote in favour of a resolution to support the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, because you do not want to upgrade Mr Fast, I ask you: Hasn't you noticed that Mr. Schnell wasn't the first FPÖ politician to do this? Have you not noticed that, the longer one becomes aware of such contradictions, such evasions abound and it is therefore necessary, if one does not want the office and the person of the Federal President to be vilified to oppose such statements with strength and strength, rather than react with tactical statements on how you have made them? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the issue of the consequences, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Schnell was obviously apologised by the head of the Carinthian state for an apology. Do you know how Mr Schnell responded at 11.47 p.m.? – "Don't think about apologizing! It must be allowed to say the truth in democracy." [[Abg. Arbitrator: Pui!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] “I don’t think about taking back my comments or apologizing,” said Salzburg’s F-Obmann Karl Schnell in conversation with the APA. His statement “Lump” was humorous and a rather harmless formulation! .It must be allowed to say the truth in democracy, so quickly." What does Mr. Schnell mean when he says "lump" was a harmless formulation? Does he really think he wanted to accuse the President of the Federal Republic of Germany with even worse insults? And what is the understanding of the Freedom Party, if Mr. Fast is not willing to dissociate, nor to apologize? Your credibility can only be won if you ensure that this gentleman is quickly removed from the market as soon as possible. That's your job! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And because you said so yesterday about the institutions of democracy: There is a person in this country who is directly legitimated by the people, with a large majority – that is the President of the Federal Republic of Germany! And this one is obviously a thorn in your eye, for otherwise you would stand up more clearly against such statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6252	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6274	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This verbal derailment has not happened by chance, nor is it a more or less culpable slipper, which might not be justified by any heated debate, but could somehow be explained. No, the whole thing has a very, very long history, and it has essentially to do with the Freedom Party. I give to Mr Kiermaier the right that two groups in the Freedom Party seem to be facing this: The one group is the one that represents all the style and type of Jörg Haider and which is actually the essence of this party. And the other group, which is now partly sitting on the government's bench, is trying to give up a rather less aggressive backdrop, but is unable to stop this drive. Ladies and gentlemen! This has always started with posters of Haider with a mission order: "They are against him because he is for you!" And from that point on, everything that benefits the liberals and their goals was sacrosan. But this also concerns the choice of words – that is not the case with all the "noise" debates –: How did you keep talking about people who had a legitimate criticism of this government, including the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, to whom this is due? – These were the raptors, the chaots, every thoughtful humiliating word you needed. You have explained your goals for sacrosanct, and that is why you have also fallen out of all the clouds when the prosecutor's office and the courts have begun to discover legal breaks in the top-level cowardry that come from the liberal side. They will have to get used to the fact that this is now a call of the rule of law against practices aimed at giving one side completely free of charge for any means and at declaring the other bird-free. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6316	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mr Speciale, want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the XII advisory group of the Federal proposal for 2001. This includes Chapter 40 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XII of the Federal Finance Act for the year 2001. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Kostelka and comrades on the rejection of insults and denunciations to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany by the National Council and the Federal Government – a request to the Federal Minister of State for Defence, to the President of the Federal Government to express his confidence in a daily order and in a statement before the National Council. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are located in the drawers of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the names "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the author, Mrs Parfuss, to begin with the name call. Mrs Haller will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6410	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now vote under the supervision of the experts. I am therefore interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6444	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 165, of which "Yes" votes: 72, No voices: 93. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Grabner, Gradwelt, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl Kurt, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl Anton, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kostelka, herbs, cubite, pangs, kuntzl; varnishes, lignite, lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, barons, boars, silhavy, sima; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Agatz, Auer; Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Hetzl Gerhard, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Kößl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzbauer, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentsch, Loos; Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wachsländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6617	We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the insult of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany by FP-Landespartiteobmann. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are located in the drawers of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the author, Mrs Parfuss, to begin with the name call. Mrs Haller will then replace her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6680	The vote will end. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the experts. The sitting was therefore suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 12.48 p.m. and resumed at 12.53 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6711	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote as follows: Members cast: 166, of which "Yes" votes: 74, No voices: 92. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavischnig, Grabner, Gradwelt, Grünewald, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl Kurt, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl Anton, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; varnishes, lignite, lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Shashing, barons, boars, silhavy, sima; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Agatz, Auer; Bauer Gerhard, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grossruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Hetzl Gerhard, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Kößl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzbauer, Kurzmann; Leiner, Lentsch, Loos; Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Prince, Princehorn, Pumberger, Puttinger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wachsländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick. Advisory Group IX Chapter 63: Economy and work Chapter 64: Construction and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6904	We are now entering the negotiations on the IX Advisory Group: Economics and Labour. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Kubitschek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e6934	Mr President. The Minister is not here yet, so I may be able to comment briefly on what has been done. Ladies and gentlemen! The voting behaviour you have just presented to us probably speaks for itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the press will hopefully comment on this. In particular, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party must, I believe, deeply frighten every democrat, because the content of these requests, which you, ladies and gentlemen, have just rejected, should indeed be an absolute self-evident for everyone. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Good day, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Abg. Böhacker: Mrs. State Secretary is already here!]] Mrs. State Secretary, good day! Minister Bartenstein, you have made a true jubilation in the summer in a very detailed press release on "Österreich's economic location". The event was the presentation of current business start-up projects. The message – summarized – has stated: Austria's location has become even more attractive for investors and we can almost double the company's operations during the same period of the previous year. On this point, Mr Bartenstein, I am very pleased to give you the right. In fact, the location factors for the Austrian economy are more than favourable: Austria has the lowest profit tax in the EU as a whole, the tax reform in 2000 has brought further relief to companies, the unit labour costs and thus the productivity of the Austrian economy are even more favourable to Germany by about 1.6 percentage points, and we have always been able to achieve a high level of education, with a good infrastructure and with a high standard of living. So you're right if you say in your press release: The company tree confirms the government's course! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] What However, you have forgotten, Minister Bartenstein, that you obviously meant the government course of the former SPÖ-ÖVP government, because I believe, Minister Bartenstein, we are quite agreed that for half a year governance cannot yet lead to a business settlement boom! – The government started its work in February, and the June press release is not entirely possible. [[Rejoicing by the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] For the effectiveness of the local policy of the current government, Mr Bartenstein, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is certainly necessary to provide evidence. But if I look at the government program, I'm so sure you're on the right track. With some amazement, it can be seen that the government is clearly convinced that the central element of an offensive location policy is agriculture, because in the chapter on "Economic location" entitled "The country should live" this sector, which is just 1.4 percent of gross domestic product, really takes the most space at a distance. In contrast, all the other measures which I would not mention as a core issue of site policy are only in the form of very general headings. Of course, this assessment is also reflected in the budget. As usual, agriculture is the only group that has escaped the radical saving of the government completely unharmed. Apart from the agricultural policy, we have originally been announced the reduction of additional labour costs as the most important instrument of local policy. In the meantime, this measure had to be sacrificed to the all-eminent objective of the zero deficit. I do not want to say that I am now particularly in favour of this measure, because it is crucial for the productivity of an economy and therefore for competitiveness that is known to be not the level of additional labour costs, but the unit labour costs. And in this regard, as you, Minister Bartenstein, have already done in your press release, we are already absolutely in the top international field. In other words, in addition to the agricultural policy, it remains to be considered the privatisation offensive as an instrument of local policy. In this context, Minister Bartenstein, you may be able to explain to me once again what industrial policy strategy is really behind it if you place a company's shares on the market under the worst conditions. I do not, in particular, give up the hope that we can continue to discuss the concept of social democrats, namely the concept of promoting strategic property as an industrial policy instrument, without prejudice to you, Minister Bartenstein, as the appropriate minister for industrial policy. We would be very pleased anyway. Unfortunately, with the merged privatisation proceeds, the last chance for a real technology offensive is also there, because where the many billion schillings that will be necessary to achieve the very ambitious and fully announced goal of a doubling of the F&E quota by 2005, no one has yet been able to answer us. In any case, the previous achievements in technology policy can already be read very plausibly at the not increased, but unfortunately already fallen R&D-Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! If I have correctly understood the government's argument, then the really central measure for Austria's economic location is the achievement of the zero deficit. This will apparently automatically promote the economic location, create employment and secure the future. So far, this strategy has unfortunately brought us an increase in the rate of inflation, a record result in the tax rate and a weakening of economic growth. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Under offensive location policy, Minister Bartenstein, I actually understand something else. We are currently experiencing a very dynamic transformation phase in the economy and thus also in society. The main factor on which this development is based is human capital. In other words, the investment decisions of a modern location policy should be: Training offensive, investment in universities and research, not virtual, but a real technology offensive, and in particular – I am particularly concerned – an active and offensive European policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is, the goal of a sustainable and modern location policy must be to create a stable open country with high quality of life, high level of education and high international reputation. And in line with these challenges, Minister Bartenstein, your location policy is of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7023	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7045	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Martin Wolf wrote the following in the Financial Times: "It is one of the most effective weapons of democratic politicians to promise today's voters more than can be financed from today's tax payments. There are always benevolent people and institutions that lend money to the state. Today's politicians and their voters have the advantage. The victims are the future generations." Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have ended this kind of policy. In this situation, we have simply put an end to the burden of future generations. On the other hand, we can deny that the social market economy, despite strong resistance to the socialist debt-making economy, has finally come to an end. The social market economy is an economic order with social and ecologically responsible freedom. It grants entrepreneurs the freedom to use the means of production optimally in their personal responsibility and at their own personal risk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It also opens the way for workers to rise socially and increase their income by means of benefits, and also provides for equal opportunities and reduction of social tensions. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, the budget chapter "Economics and Labour" was also drawn up. In 2001, 12.6 billion more than in 2000! This could, of course, be done mainly because in the spring of 2000, we passed a new Federal Ministry Act and distributed the competences differently. As you can see today, this year-round budget for business and work is a budget that has already proved successful. Co-operation between the social and economic sectors has finally been a positive decision, as has already been said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was not a decision that led to more unemployment or negative economic development. On the contrary! In Austria, there is a very positive trend: 3.1 instead of 3.6% unemployed, 3 175 000 employees – the highest number of employees, gross domestic product at the 3,000 billion schilling, namely, 2 935 billion schilling. This shows confidence in politics, which shows confidence in development, in what is happening today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Export increases represent 16.3 percent in the first months of 2000. I think it is essential to point out – especially in view of the future enlargements to the East – that we have experienced an export increase towards Eastern Europe of 21.2 percent. This is not enough to take account of the fact that we have halved our trade deficit: From 100 billion schilling in 1996, we will come to 47.8 billion schilling in 2001. I think these figures, too, show impressively how well Austria has positioned itself within the EU. The most important question is, and this has also been said by my predecessor: What do I want? What can I do to continue developing a positive economic location? – In addition, Austria, as international rankings always show, has certain special qualities. I am thinking, for example, of the quality of life, of the excellent infrastructure, of the relatively high amount of self-sufficiency in energy, even though prices are still a little high, of good professionals and of good training. The high government ratio, government debt, high social contributions, high additional wage costs, the standard of technology management and the overarching bureaucracy are considered to be the site disadvantages, i.e. factors under which Austria suffers. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months we have had to take measures to reduce public expenditure and the state rate! It was our duty to intervene regulatoryly in order to eliminate many abuses. And it is our job to advance red tape and invest in research and development. Let me briefly address some areas. First of all, public debt: If it was 65.2 percent of GDP in 1999, it is 63.9% this year, and we will reach 62.5 percent in 2001. But it is not to be denied that we are the fourth last in the statistics within the ranking of government debt. The fact is also, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in the EU ranking regarding the budget deficit or surplus in the final place of the EU countries. 1998: minus 2.3 percent, this year: minus 1.6%. We will have to make every effort to achieve a zero deficit, but we will do it! And this government has put in place the necessary measures to achieve it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A few words on administrative reform and red tape. I think this is where we have to apply the principles of "new public management". Just a few words on this: comprehensive citizen orientation, a citizen card, flexible personnel management, benchmarking, international and national administrative comparisons, introduction of appropriate operational instruments such as controlling, cost accounting – things that we have already partly dealt with, things that are already being negotiated and which we will finally enforce. [[Abg. Eder: The list is nothing new! Persistence is the problem!]] . We have already begun, Mr Eder, you know that better than everyone else. At the end of the day, of course, the development in the field of research and innovation is also important. Already, the innovation capacity of the domestic industry is relatively high within the EU. 31 percent of the proceeds come from new or modernised products. Industry's innovation rate is 67 percent higher than the EU average! Austria has also clearly and clearly positioned itself there. The decision in which I last invest depends, of course, on the costs and revenues. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that in the future: Modern value-added can not only be measured by physical products, as the example of US qualitative growth shows: a tripled gross social product with unchanged tonnage of production! Especially when one highlights comparative advantages for knowledge-intensive activities, things like good education, motivation, safety and quality of life are important. – All the aspects we can offer in Austria that make us competitive in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has also taken precautions in this area. We will gradually increase the R&D quota to 2.5 percent of GDP by 2005. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The economy contributes around 17.8 billion schilling to the 2001 budget. We confess to this, because for the economy it is necessary that the budget be sustainable – I emphasize: sustainable! – it is consolidated that important measures are being put in place to maintain and further develop the site, so that social security can ultimately reduce costs. We need a balanced government budget by 2002, so that it will also lead to a longer-term reduction in additional labour costs, including unit labour costs – I also give you some of the right – and a further reduction in the total tax rate. We are beginning with this 2000 budget. All scientific findings, ladies and gentlemen, but also the practical successes – I am thinking back to the USA – show us clearly that fiscal consolidation can only take place under two basic conditions: On the one hand, this requires a robust and sustainable upturn, and on the other hand, governments should rather take a restrictive course in the upturn in their spending policies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have chosen the right time in terms of savings specifically for this chapter, but also for the entire 2001 budget, and we have also set up a socially balanced budget. We can be happy and satisfied about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7121	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7143	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I heard with interest today in the "Morgenjournal" that we are debating today the budget chapter "Work and Social Affairs". I thought: That's exactly what we warned about. And I'm warning you again: We are not discussing "work and social things", but – unfortunately! – on "Economics and Work" and thus also experience the consequences of the fragmentation of ministries, which, as you can see from the budget estimates, in part only more than one number of economies of rumour or, as in the field of economy and work, a combination that, as I believe, includes a dangerous mixture. But I am referring to the consequences of this mixture later on in the example of the insolvency fund. I should also like to say, of course, that we Greens are still against this breakdown of ministries, against the allocation of departmental and departmental responsibilities. That went wrong! Even if you, Mr. Federal Minister, were able to upgrade the competences in your ministry by: It can be shown in many areas that this breakdown is not good. I do not want to give you the words you have made in the past and which are already worthy of discussion, because we have already held this debate, but I come to the statement of my previous speaker, in which I thought: What time does Mr Puttinger actually speak of? He said: We had to take measures to reduce the state rate. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger! They have apparently failed the debate over the last few days. The state ratio is not reduced by any measures taken by the Federal Government, but the state ratio is increased. This is the consequence of your policy, although you have made the promise to lower the state rate. – That is wrong, Mr Puttinger! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They're increasing the state rate! – The government ratio is clearly increased. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You're talking about a year!]] But maybe you confused this with the government debt you intend to reduce. To this end, I thought of the following comment: How do you try that? What measures have you tried to reduce these over the last few months? I come across the UMTS auction. – A flop without equal! Wrong from the front to the back! Let us discuss what the economic meaning of this type of auction was! Okay, the Minister of Finance said at the time: The poor yield in UMTS auction is likely to have a positive impact on the sale of the 25 percent of Telekom. – And that was the next flop we had to experience! The Telekom has been thrown away. But that's still not my topic. I now come to that area in the chapter on "Economics and Labour", which I am particularly interested in, namely, unemployment insurance. In fact, this is also tossed – a question answered by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is still proof of this: From 1996 to 2002, including the next proposal, which we will then decide on in spring, unemployment insurance will receive 60 billion schilling. This corresponds in total to the expenditure for two years of unemployment benefit and emergency aid! Two years of unemployment benefit and emergency aid – so much for you from 1996 to 2002 and at the same time say: The unemployment insurance system is over-required! That's where we have to cut people's benefits! You pay too little – as would be demonstrated by the example of the debate on the suspension periods in the seasonal areas and now on your authorisation regulation or on the other measures to reduce family allowances. Federal Minister! That is simply not right, it does not correspond to the facts! And your argument – that was also the argument of the old government –: These withdrawals are therefore due to the need to cover early retirements!, is rejected by a different answer to the question. We have been asked by the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations about the costs of hiking insurance in pension insurance, the so-called hiking report. ==References====External links== It is here October. This report clearly states: The unemployment insurance gap is 9 billion schilling. I compare this with the budget estimate: However, the 2001 budget will receive 11 billion, even more than 11 billion, and 16 billion will be drawn in 2002. The cover gap due to early retirement pensions is only 9 billion! I am already interested – and I too am not going to comply with this report by the Ministry of Social Affairs: How does the distribution policy affect? The money you receive from unemployment insurance, Mr. Federal Minister, these 11 billion for 2001 and 16 billion for 2002 respectively, is taken from the income of employed workers, travels to pension insurance and is distributed there to all pension insurances within the meaning of early retirement pensions. That's redistribution, Minister of State! I am not aware that early retirement pensions in other pension areas – in the case of self-employed people, in the case of farmers – will find any agreement that farmers are asked to cash out to self-employed persons, for example, if they claim an early retirement pension. You can't intervene under the title Cost-truth – that's being propagated by you – in the pot of unemployment insurance, take something out of this pot and distribute it to all pension insurance! That's dirty. I repeat: That's dirty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Anyone who understands something of cost economy will have to insist that, if costs are already caused somewhere, they will also be assigned cleanly. It is not assigned cleanly, since it is redistributed by the self-employed workers or also by the companies towards all pension insurance. That's an unfair redistribution! - That's point one. Point two: I would have to ask the subtle question as to why unemployment insurance is made responsible for something it has not decided on in its own field. – The decision on early retirement pensions, the introduction of early retirement pensions has not been made by unemployment insurance. I can't remember that unemployment insurance would have decided on its own to introduce early retirement pensions because this will relieve unemployment insurance. This is a policy decision, as well as the remuneration of replacement periods for presence and for karenz periods. Shouldn't politics take responsibility? Say: Is it not the responsibility of the Federal Legislator to take decisions on early retirement pensions, which I consider to be in principle correct and important, to take responsibility and the costs for them – and not simply any insurance, in which, by chance, money is left in any year, because one sees that it is going to be possible to get money there? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! You know: What you are doing with artificially high levels of unemployment insurance contributions, unemployment insurance, with these huge deductions, is once again degrading to an unemployment tax, which is because you do not want to give the unemployed in the field of benefits – those insurance guarantees – which they need. A unemployed person – no matter who it is – needs the guarantee that he will immediately receive compensation when he becomes unemployed. He also needs the guarantee that the compensation is based on his last income. It was introduced in 1996 that it is not based on the last income, but on the income of the previous year or the previous year. But now we know on the other hand that more and more people are changing jobs. There are 700 000 to 1 million cases of work change per year. That is, the vast majority of Austrians lose their job within two to three years at least once. This is so, for that there are confirmations: 2.7 years is the average working time – 2.7 years! There are sectors where the change of work is even more frequent, and I am talking about them. There is a person who has a job in which she earns 9 000 s per month in a year, and thank God she can improve next year in another job where she earns 20,000 s. However, unemployment benefit only receives it on the basis of the 9 000 S if it becomes unemployed again after the 20 000 S job – which happens to many. And that's what you're talking about, that's an insurance benefit? It is a coincidence what compensation you receive in unemployment insurance. This has nothing to do with the insurance character, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They should have long since lowered contributions in the interests of employees and in this case also in the interests of the economy. But you refuse because you want to transfer money towards pensions from the unemployed or the unemployed and the companies. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There are some knots in your files!]] – I’m glad I’m not Your knots, Mr Haigermoser! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point: Insolvency Fee Fund: The announcements, Mr. Federal Minister, we can see that you are planning to solve the forced labour question in such a way that the Federal Government takes away the pot of the insolvency fund of 3.7 billion schilling. Originally, the cost of financing forced labour compensation in 50 percent of the economy and 50 percent of the state was planned. Now it turns out that in addition to a few 100 million of itself, the economy cannot and does not want to do anything. This is something we have already predicted, because voluntarily no one will find himself so easily ready. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Who pays that?]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] What are you doing? – They make a contribution, namely, to the contribution of companies that pay for insolvency to ensure workers in the event of insolvency, to transfer from this pot insolvency fund 3.7 billion and say that this is the economic contribution – 3.7 billion schilling! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puttinger.]] One billion more comes from the state, a few 100 million shillings from the post office and other semi-governmental companies, and that was it. Mr Maderthaner! Where then remains the responsibility of the economy which has benefited from the forced workers during the period of National Socialism? – It is probably also reasonable for the economy – morally, legally and politically – to make a contribution to the forced labour force and not to take everything out of the state funds, to the disfavors of those who fly out of the holding and are praised for their claims. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: Where does the money come from?]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] The consequence of the transfer of 3.7 billion from this area is foreseeable: The insolvency fund has a deficit for 2001 – depending on when you take out these 3.7 billion – and we will have a debate next year on the removal of benefits in the case of insolvency, as we had already had them in the current budget estimate or in the accompanying laws in the event of termination or insolvency. We will then have this debate, and it is the employees who have to bear the costs for it. This is the consequence of a fair policy towards the economy, towards companies that have actually benefited – and that was not just state and half-state companies. A final remark will allow me to say: They do not change anything with this policy, which we have criticised in recent years – namely, involving in pots, not changing anything, no cost-truth, no cost-assignment – simply continue, and that is – as has been demonstrated in the example of unemployment insurance and in the example of the insolvency fund – a gross redistribution policy that would harm those concerned, who would have to expect claims from insurance and funds.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7306	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7328	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Oillinger as an economic expert is probably a chuzpe, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to say any more to Ollinger, although I thought a lot of things were happening, but I would like to save myself a call for order today. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You can't do that anyway!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: In a proven manner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I like to deal with arguments. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is something new!]] Mrs Kubitschek! They have, as a matter of fact, played down the level of additional wage costs and thought that only unit labour costs were an important economic parameter. – You can’t turn the economics around! It is very likely that it is necessary to reduce the additional wage costs to an increasing extent. Puttinger also formulated it: In a service society, these things are important. - So much for it. As one who is interested in a functioning, healthy agriculture with every fiber of his mind, one thing has also struck me: that once again you have not been able to fail to pull agriculture into the drawing place, and have meant that there should be nothing to promote, and agriculture should be left alone. – Especially in times like this, it is enormous if you think that you should save on healthy food and the support of producers. The Federal Government will not do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] High house! I am almost on one line with Puttinger, and I would also like to stress something at the beginning of my remarks. It is also a new quality of this coalition that we are working together and have found a reform coalition and no coalition, ladies and gentlemen! This seems to me important to the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today's debate on the chapter on the economy and work of course also calls for the reform coalition of the liberals with the ÖVP to set down some fundamental positions. From a liberal point of view, it must be noted once again that the state economy has served, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] More private, less state. No less than the Secretary-General of the Industrial Association Fritz has formulated: The old social partnership is dead! - I'm not commenting on this, ladies and gentlemen. Our answer is undoubtedly: An orderly liberalism of new quality needs to be created, which is countering the dangers of global neo-capitalism. Ladies and gentlemen! This is undoubtedly a keyword, but practical answers need to be found. If the old social partnership is mause dead, then I have to ask – if I make a confession to a social partnership – what is going to happen. I say that this social partnership should be redefined in such a way that it is adopted by the old principle of the social dictatorship and that the decisions will come back to Parliament. That is what they belong to, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are in the best way, but we are in close association with the social partners. That's the new quality. Secondly, this seems particularly important to me, ladies and gentlemen, and this request, I believe, has been raised by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State: The calculability and long-term policy strategy must be reintroduced in order to make Austria's economic location credible for national and international competitors and thus guarantee the safety of the workplace. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Work for all is only available in healthy farms. Mr. Ollinger! I know you're attached to a Marxist economic concept, but that's supposed to be your business, not ours. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Eder: You don't believe what you're talking about now!]] – The fact that we have taken over the clean-up of the debt policy of the old socialist coalition is, as I mean, in the meantime active. Ladies and gentlemen! Thirdly, Mrs Kubitschek: The emergence of oligopolies to the detriment of the economy must be given greater attention, because such a development, at the end of thought, would lead to a "communist capitalism" as it has formulated seriously to take economies. In this context, the demands of the Chamber of Labour seem to me to be worthy of discussion and discussion. We liberals have worked on it for a long time or have insisted on expanding competition law in Austria – also with your proposal from a lawyer for this. But I would have liked to hear that when it came to holding back new concentrations of power in the media sector, the Chamber of Labour would have spoken a warning word. She shouldn't have gone to the dive station, ladies and gentlemen! You know what I mean. Ladies and gentlemen! If the Chamber of Labour postulates that a lack of competition policy for businesses and consumers would promote enormously high prices, a limited selection of products, pressure on competitive and subcontractors to the disposal on the market and thus the loss of jobs and wage pressure, then I am with you, then we are with you. I would only like to get rid of these demands and to make practical implementation strategies. It is unfortunate that these practical implementation strategies have not penetrated into the last corner of this Republic. For example, a coalition of SPÖ, greens and, unfortunately, the FPÖ of the city of Salzburg is following such an oligopol in Salzburg with an expansive square meter for a consumer market. This will promote oligopolies if the concentration on the green meadow continues in this way. I regret that, I say that also with regard to my party there. Ladies and gentlemen! A lively trade landscape of diversity involving the middle class is an essential condition of a functioning economy. You're fighting that. High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire, of the united left! You dispute... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Third!]] [[Abg. Eder: Who disputes what? Who disputes what?]] - Excuse me, the united left-wing third-party, I like to correct myself. One of the central tasks of positive economic policy is – this is undisputed, except for you – a budget policy without debt, and we confess to that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your debt policy has discharged us and has put us in enough negative. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why this reform coalition is so important so that our children and grandchildren also have a corresponding future. Ladies and gentlemen! First successes are already apparent, although – once again underlined – the economy has to bear the main burden of the rehabilitation concept. [[Abg. Eder: Where?]] [[Abg. Eder: Say it right away, otherwise you forget it!]] - I'll be right there. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this also includes the social peace you repeatedly urge, because the economy lives, but not your professional demonstrators from the left. I'm just saying: The fire torch statement of Mr. Kaske speaks for itself. – Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, we are happy to give up this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Watch out for your knots!]] They wanted to know what already happened to positives. I'll tell you: Austria has fewer pleas in the EU comparison. While Austria still had a strong 22 percent increase in insolvency in the previous year, the number of corporate pleas and private bankruptcys fell by 3.8 percent to 4,000 in the first half of the year. Title: "Economic situation SMEs". The middle class continues to grow. 61.5 percent of medium-sized enterprises assess the economic situation well. For the next half-year, 50.2 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises expect increasing turnover. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, not only a merit of the Federal Government, but also an international economy, but we do not accompany these excellent figures as you did by the Social Democrats, because you have put in the brake block. Ladies and gentlemen! Further – especially important to us –: Public service costs 50 billion schilling. This is scientifically proven. The Federal Government, the Cabinet Schüssel/Riess-Passer I, is working to push down this 50 billion schilling in order to strengthen and expand Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Wifo study!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Where did you get this? Coffee sauce probably! Or astrology!]] I also come briefly to the field of research and development. We know the quota is too low. But if we insist that at least 50.2 billion schilling for research in Austria is going to make it that this quota is still rising and we reach 1.79 percent of the gross domestic product with this increase – certainly still upliftable – then we are on the right track here too. Ladies and gentlemen! Another comment on the social-democratic accusation of the sale of the home, the forests and so on. This story is also part of the economy. They were written in the main book: You have managed to "privatize" Austrian soil resources – under quotation marks – by making Mr. Androsch a salt baron. [[Congratulations to Mr Dolinschek and Mr Achatz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I don't judge it any further, I'm just putting it in the room. Now go here and, when you need to privatize parts of the Federal Forests to arrond farmers' forests, talk about the forest being sold out, you have been caught up in fresh deed! This has been a hanebüchen accusation and is clear, ladies and gentlemen! The balance of payments is improving. I could do a lot of positive things. For example, the full market opening in the gas sector, market opening and freedom of choice for customers in the electricity sector, business regulations, one-stop shop, vocational training law, first success balance sheets are promised. So there are signs of the waywards of the liberals together with the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen, who can be seen, piles that have been beaten in, which are diametrically different from socialist politics. I am happy that Austria finally has a democratically elected government that has the power to continue this country's economic policy. Finally, I can thank all entrepreneurs, all entrepreneurs and their employees for making this country a flourishing country despite a socialist waste policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7591	The next speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7613	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is always very nice to be able to speak, according to Mr Haigermoser, because he always tries to address a lot of issues in a short time. I agree with him that this will not allow him to discuss every issue until the end of the day. I still hear him talking in opposition here when it came to agriculture. Today he explains that we must not leave agriculture alone. - No one ever wanted that! What you have always wanted, Mr Haigermoser, and what we have always wanted was to make more of the resources distributed over agriculture, the small farmers and the mountain and mountain farmers, who are just those who keep healthy cattle and cows on the pasture, available than they have been so far, and the large farmers, who are perhaps large industrial farmers, a bit less. That is what we were talking about, and I think we have no difference either, Mr Haigermoser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It'll only be funny if you're looking for your own enemy image in your speeches, because there's a lot of calls you need today from our side. Then ask yourself the questions, that's quite funny to listen to, but that's just a personal note. I should like to say one more thing: The SPÖ, colleague Haigermoser, did not make Dr. Androsch a salt baron, but it seems that Dr. Androsch is a very clever and good business expert, who has catapulted himself to an industrialist on his own initiative. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I didn't say anything!]] If you bring this into the context of the Federal Forests, you have to say that the Director-General of the Federal Forests, Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Ramsauer, also a wise man, because he is now going to the Androsch Group, so to the Androsch who "made" the SPÖ. So it can't be that bad there either. – We can only smile at such statements; I have also understood this in such a way that you have done so in this sense. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic situation in Austria – which has so far been noted by all speakers – is good. I think that this good situation should be strengthened. We all agree on this, as I think, too. So we should try and do this together. We have differing views only in individual areas of the economy, especially in an essential economic factor of the country that we discussed a few days ago on the occasion of the budget accompanying laws: that is, how we will deal with the non-profit housing sector in Austria in the future. This is a very important economic factor in our country. There are different views – apparently also within the coalition government – about how one will continue to deal with the WGG. I hope that this discussion will be carried out very intensively and in such a way that a positive outcome can be achieved. It's fixed, ladies and gentlemen, In this sector in particular, we have 80 percent of the value added in the country. This is a very important area in which we should be very sensitive. The continuity and the long-term nature of this economic sector is also very important. Continuity is very necessary, especially in new housing and housing – we all know that, in some cases, we also suffer. If this continuity, for example, if, by any change of large-scale nature, large-scale housing activities fail, then it happens very quickly that, although not equally sustainable, but after five to ten years, demand can rise very much, and then it is not possible to drop 15 000, 20 000 or 30 000 homes every year, but it is necessary that the companies, the companies, the subcontractors, know that continuity remains true that the engineers, the technicians, the architects, can adjust to a certain annual volume that they can handle in this segment. If this is done, then all of these will be transferred to other activities, such as industrial construction, and if you need housing, you will no longer be able to do so. In other words, the sale of non-profit housing is, in my opinion, the wrong way. We need long-term thinking in the residential economy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We need to consider – this discussion should be held very intensively together – what should happen to the WGG, with the housing law in the future. If we believe that this segment can also be left to the market, then this is quite a realistic consideration. But you also need to know what the consequences are. In the free market economy, of course, every entrepreneur, even if he is operating a residential economy, has to work with proceeds. Without proceeds, there is no business on the free market. That's right, and that's what we're standing for. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] But what does that mean for those who are in this residential segment? – We need to pay attention to these together. That's what you've paid very much attention to by the Freedom Party, still in the opposition. Now you agree with a bit easier to release 106 000 families into the market economy, so to speak. What does that mean? – This means, for these 106 000 families, but also, if we continue with the WGG next year, 500 000 more families clearly have higher interest rates, because capital by 3.5 percent interest will not get anywhere in the world, that is what the builders themselves have to impose. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who says that?]] These will therefore require a much higher conservation and improvement contribution. It will be a question of housing security. The market rents or the appropriate rents, as you say so beautifully, will not be on average at 27 to 30 S, but then simply at 70 and 120 S. We will see it at the federal apartments when they are released and the Minister of Finance wants to redeem 30 billion Schilling and believe that the tenants will be able to buy it. – I was always for that. tenants in their own apartments should be able to buy their apartments; no problem at all. But if you sell entire houses or companies with the tenants, the WGG changes and then allows to increase the rents, it will become very critical for some tenants, ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you one thing, too. The invoice, which is set up here, is quite simple: The little ones who are in the apartments and cannot help themselves must pay, and the great ones who have the great capital will earn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7683	The next address is Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7705	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies of the House! Mr Eder! No one wants to suspend 106 000 families or even more unprotected the market economy. On the contrary: We pursue the same goal as you, namely to facilitate private housing ownership, better than before. It is ensured by the WGG-Novelle that protection mechanisms continue to apply to these 106 000 families and that there can be no doubt about that. But I would like to take a little time, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the very constructive statements made by the main speaker of the Socialist opposition group, Mrs Kubitschek: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You are quite right in a lot of what you say, for example, that the number of operations by the Austrian Business Agency is a very important indicator of the development of the Austrian site. It was, of course, essential to see, ladies and gentlemen, how, especially in the light of the sanctions in the first months of this year, these operations would develop. Little has calmed me as much as the APA's statement that only three or four out of 500 projects in progress have been suspended or even withdrawn. You can still ask: Was that just the so-called sanction policy, or was it something else? In the first half of the year, in the first nine months of 2000, we were able to record absolute record numbers, doublings, triples of jobs created. Whether the paternity is 100 percent of the old, 100 percent of the new or 50 percent of the two forms of government, I am relatively indifferent. I am concerned about the quality of the site in Austria and the jobs in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The same applies to additional wage costs and unit labour costs. Both are interconnected, one can lower the other. Since, I think, it was very important that the autumn wage round, initiated by the metallers, is located at the top edge of what is just tolerable, perhaps even a trace of it, but that overall, of course, over the years, the development of unit labour costs proves that the location of Austria is good and that it is worth either coming here or staying here to produce here. Ladies and gentlemen! I am of a different opinion on the subject of privatisation. First, with the privatisation of the P.S.K. a very successful measure, and, secondly, it was not easy, in view of the very difficult exchange environment as a whole and the telecom environment in particular, of course, to shape the privatisation of Telekom Austria differently than it has happened. The Minister of Finance and I have certainly expected more revenue, but these relatively low revenues, the relatively low issue rate of 9 euros per share, have the advantage that hopefully, at least in the longer term, corresponding price fantasies are given to investors. On the other hand, I am certainly, ladies and gentlemen, in one thing: that it was above all social-democratic ministers – I have to speak here on German Chancellors a.D. climate – who have delayed and lost so much time that we were far too late for the whole thing. The then Transport and Later Finance Minister climate has failed to separate the Yellow Post from Telekom, as was the case elsewhere in Europe, and he has failed to take the necessary steps to do so. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Now we've missed the good wind a little and we're late. By the way, this is also the case with UMTS, because there is also a lot more in the past. On an area for which you are not highly responsible, but on which you as a political group, as a party, have influence, namely on Bank Austria, I can only say to you: Telekom services are offered worldwide. The current comes from the sockets all over the world. Other things are not as much tied to the capital and headquarters as banking services. I have to tell you that I have already been somewhat amazed when yesterday a top manager of the National Bank had to tell me that banking supervision in Austria is no longer in charge of Bank Austria, which is now the German banking supervision. – That too makes us look deep, ladies and gentlemen! [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Especially for entrepreneurs, especially for the medium-sized economy, it is important where the banking services come from, where the contact person is and where the decisions are taken. And there Vienna is always preferable to me than a city outside Austria. The responsibility of banking supervision shows exactly where decisions will be taken in the future. – Again: Indeed, it is not this government that has the responsibility to take over for these operations and for this transfer. Now to double the F&E quota, ladies and gentlemen: I would ask you to note that we have an R&D quota of 1.8 percent, that is, we do not have to double it to reach 2.5 percent. Mr Puttinger has already pointed out: We take the necessary steps, a milestone concept is coming up. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, made it clear that 10 billion Schilling is being added to public funds to further improve the disproportionately high public share of research and development. I say to you, Mrs Kubitschek, the following: Yes, I believe that a zero deficit policy is also the goal of a site policy. It turns out again and again that budget deficits lead first to tax increases that finance the economy that the economy has to pay. Mr Puttinger has already said that 18 billion are paying the economy in the course of this consolidation. If you calculate the advance payments, then you get much more, then you move in the direction of 30 billion. It is ultimately very often the economy, it is the companies that have to pay the token. That is why I say quite clearly: Yes, a zero deficit policy is also a very important factor in a successful location policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am quite right, ladies and gentlemen, if you say that the tax rate in the country is too high. She was too high, and she's probably rising by a few tenths now, she's going to exceed the 45 percent limit. It must therefore be our common objective to reduce this tax rate, consisting of tax and social taxes, as soon as possible. I believe that 2003 is a concrete target for us to have to return to a tax rate below 45 percent. I consider a quota of over 45 percent to be inconceivable. In one, I am not in your opinion, namely that it is this government that is driving inflation up and down growth with the consolidation rate. Read the newspapers, study the impact of the oil price on these two indicators, then you will know where at least the main part of the wind comes from! They shake the head and deny, but it is undisputed that in an OECD country like Austria, a crude oil price of 10 dollars per barrel increases inflation by about half a percentage point and growth is reduced by a quarter. That's about the difference to what we had half a year ago. From there comes the main part. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also fully agree with you that human capital in this country is the crucial location factor for Austria. I believe that today's debate on "Economics and Labour" can be thanked by Austria's companies for having made an amazing and significant contribution to optimizing human capital. In difficult times as at present, there are 5.7 percent more apprenticeship contracts than before the year, and I think this is very important and pleasing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, are quoted as an AK expert in Vienna's "Kurier" on competition law – there is a high degree of agreement, we will have to discuss it – then I would have liked you to add an active and offensive Easter enlargement policy to active and offensive European policy, because this has been a decisive success factor for the Austrian site for ten years. We have a trade balance, a positive balance of jobs and excellent values in terms of direct investments. [[Abg. Silhavy: There you have to talk to the Freeman! There you need to talk to your coalition partner!]] – No, not there anymore, but long ago there. [[the speaker points towards the freedom]] [[The speaker points towards SPÖ.]] In Austria, there is no more decisive opponent of Easter enlargement than AK and ÖGB, which come with the killer argument that candidate countries should only have 80 percent of the Austrian wage level before there is a free movement of labour. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] According to the criterion of AK and ÖGB, if Greece were Greece, Portugal would not be present today. That is why it is really about you finally saying goodbye to this killer argument! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, Mr Oellinger's comments. It is probably not true that the economy would not make a significant contribution to forced labour compensation! 6 billion schillings are a lot of money that spending was not easy. Let us not forget that ISG funds are spent exclusively by employers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] They say here so casual, loose and army: "stated industry". – From my point of view, there is no longer a national industry in this country! The ÖIAG Group, with mainly listed companies, finances 1 billion Schilling, the E-Economics and others finance 400 million Schilling, because there are relatively many follow-up companies in this area from such companies that have actually employed forced workers. In fact, the medium-sized economy, ladies and gentlemen, has not, in general, already had precursor operations in 1945. These companies were mostly founded in 1947, 1948, 1950 or later. That is, in this area, it is a truly voluntary service to pay for it. I believe that the compromise, which is now on the table, is very good and that it is essential that ultimately the public hand – the federal government and the states – and the economy together carry and finance this forced labour compensation. This is a very important piece of this successful government work in the first nine months. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As Minister of Labour, I conclude and would like to point out that, in the end, local policy is also part of the labour market policy. We can be proud of the numbers that exist in this country. At the same time, however, we have the problem that the labour markets are drying us out, that we sometimes do not know where we get managers from where we get IT specialists. We are trying to find transitional arrangements in the short term. In the long term, however, we will not be able to find out with the people from abroad, whom we can take in with airplanes. This will be a question of qualification and training and a challenge for this country. Everything else is not a solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But let us be proud that we have created the framework for the lowest unemployment rate for ten years, that older workers are becoming increasingly busy, that the situation for women is better and that we are the number one among young people in Europe. Let us also say on this point that the key figures of our economy – perhaps with the exception of oil prices and the associated impact on inflation rates – have not been as good as they have been for ten years. Therefore, let us not look and shine in the United States, not because of the results of the elections and the censuses in Florida and elsewhere, but because of the economic situation there and the euro-dollar relationship, but also in such a phase of the strength of the Austrian economy! This was and should remain the social market economy – I add: a sustainable social market economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That was the post-war success model, and that's it. We are not a market economy that ignores social security or puts something in the background, as is the case in the USA. We are not market-economy operators, who are not so much interested in the market economy because of even democracy, as is the case in many Asian countries. We are a social market economy in Central Europe, Austria – and therefore: Let's think about this model! Let us consider this model, let us also be aware that in recent years the market has probably come a little too short and the social situation has not gone a little too far – no, I do not say that! – but that we have made the mistake of being social, by nationalising solidarity by making hammocks less elastic rather than narrowing them. It should be the task to keep the social level, but to increase personal responsibility. I think these are conditions which are very good for Austria's economy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7836	Mr Edler spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7882	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Bartenstein has declared that the workers' chamber and ÖGB are the determined opponents of active Easter enlargement. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's it! Tumpel and co!]] - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: AK and ÖGB are committed to active Easter enlargement, only they want to have regulated free access to the labour market and long transition periods. [[Call the ÖVP:But!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7955	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e7976	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When I speak in the debate on the "Economic and Labour" chapter, I would like to begin by expressing my joy that we have such a ministry of economy and work at all. That was also a signal for "Rerule Austria", ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Class struggle now has a new manuscript!]] This is not an old class war thinking: since capital, there work!, but labour and capital should be under one roof. Work and the economy depend on each other. Only economy creates work, and without work there is no economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I fully agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that the most valuable capital we have in Austria is human capital, the human resources of our employees. If we have diligent, skilled entrepreneurs who can motivate this potential, then this is actually the secret of our economic success, ladies and gentlemen! And I join with the thanks of Mr Haigermoser to the entrepreneurs and their employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also glad – I say this quite openly – that we have overcome this old acquis commemoration with it. The Minister of Labour must be someone of the ÖGB, and the Minister of Economic Affairs must necessarily come from the Chamber of Commerce. We've overcome that too. We have a common roof as a cooperation, and this is also an important signal of this new government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It also corresponds to the actual development in the working world, in which the boundaries between workers and employers disappear more and more, because one often does not know, is a worker, or is he actually a freelancer, or does he have a business license. I agree with those future researchers who believe that the working world of the future will be three-part: one-third stable employment, one-third several part-time jobs and one-third of whom one does not know whether there are entrepreneurs, freelances, employees or all three elements in one person – that will also exist. Therefore, this signal is so important to have business and work under one roof. As pleased as this development is, my Ladies and gentlemen, I am so unhappy to see the development that is taking place in the social partners' areas – we also need to talk about it when we talk about cooperation between the economy and the labour market. I don't make any sense of it, I've grown up in social society myself, I've always known it, it has historical merits. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, the core idea of the social partners was from the beginning: Let's rather sit at the negotiating table than demonstrate on the street. This is the main idea of the social partners, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If now the ÖGB is on the 5th. December – The same has already been done in June – leaving the negotiating table and demonstrating on the street, organizing human chains around Parliament when roadblocks and traffic jams are predicted – a separation, who is ÖGB and who are the chaots, there is no longer possible – then, I must say, the social partnership, if this course continues, is dead in the future. That must be aware of those who organize it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The union as the spearhead of the opposition against Parliament and the government is the end of social partnership. I think you have to show that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] If we are discussing the chapter "Work and Economics" today, it is, I believe, also very important to show that what "New Government" means is a double strategy. This double strategy is based on budget consolidation – no new debt! – on the other hand, but also in strengthening the economic location. We also have an interplay: An economic location cannot be attractive if the state finances are not in order in that country. On the other hand, if the economic location is not attractive, it would not be possible to reorganise state finances in the long term, because in the end only work and income opportunities can guarantee budget consolidation in the long term. That is why the government's approach, which is a double strategy, is: Budget consolidation and, at the same time, offensively strengthen the economic location, the only right way – and this government has taken the only right path, ladies and gentlemen! I am therefore pleased – to name just a few figures – that in this budget the effort for research and development, if we count everything together, will rise from 49 billion to 60 billion schilling. The Minister of Finance has recently said it publicly: If infrastructure expenditure increases from 31 billion to 36 billion schilling, then we are on the right path, which is to save, but at the same time invest in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to say very clearly: The Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour has our full support when it comes to how these funds can be distributed. I recognise that the focus of research funding is not in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, but that the economic promotions, in other words, where the practice is given, are the industrial centres of competence, cluster projects, the cooperative research institutes in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. I therefore agree with the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs to spend 500 million schillings each year for these economic research projects over the next three years. We also need theory, but economic practice cannot be replaced by anything, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased that in these few months, this government has succeeded in addressing those goals very successfully and in part in setting the course to which I have always known myself: Liberalization, deregulation, privatisation. Liberalisation means more freedom and less prejudice, privatisation means more private and less state, deregulation means more freedom and less bureaucracy. Let me say one thing very clearly – I have tried to say that recently in a television discussion –: Privatisation is not an instrument for fiscal consolidation, but it is primarily a social policy instrument. The only guarantee for the withdrawal of economic policy, the only guarantee of depoliticisation of the economy, is privatisation. Whenever the state has ownership functions, of course, very strong political aspects arise. Political perspectives are slightly different from business or business strategic considerations. That is why privatisation is socially political, but also industrially correct. Today's industrial policy is not the government's government in industrial enterprises, but rather the location policy, is the creation of the most attractive conditions for investing capital. That is exactly what we need to have income opportunities and jobs in this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, of course, it also plays a role in budgetary policy, where budgetary policy does not mean having a one-time proceeds from the sale of the family silver, as is demagogically claimed, but it is about the permanent effect. Whether I have been subsidising deficits over years from the budget, as was the case in the 1970s and 1980s, or is paying taxes from then profit-oriented businesses year after year, is an essential budgetary aspect of privatisation, which has nothing to do with a unique proceeds, ladies and gentlemen! – For all these reasons, we confess to ourselves and this government commits itself to privatisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also very glad that the Minister succeeded in reducing costs due to the liberalisation measures – gas, electricity, Telekom. Many companies in Austria, who have their rankings worldwide, their benchmarking studies, have always said: Although you are relatively expensive in Austria, you have many advantages, only: you are very expensive at energy and Telekom. – The measures taken by this government have more or less removed this site disadvantage or will eliminate it in the next few years, ladies and gentlemen! This is forward-looking economic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last word: I would also like to say this very clearly, as someone who has always known it, and I know that the Socialist Group argues differently in a very political, populist way: I am pleased that Minister Bartenstein had the courage to attack the subject of employee protection law. We have always known about this and said: Yes to health care, Yes to worker protection, Yes to occupational medicine, but just as clearly we say No to bureaucracy, no to the paper war and no to the shock, ladies and gentlemen! – Under these principles, this minister will operate deregulation with our support. – Minister! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8101	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8122	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, like some others, has boldly adapted the possible points of discussion in the field of economic policy. That is the essence of an economic debate, especially in the case of this budget capital, and I think that is all right. But of you, Mr Minister, I would have wished to make a few clearer statements on some points. If it is boldly right that this is the only right way that economic policy and budgetary policy should go, and that no one else should be allowed, then the question arises as to what the Federal Government has done in this area so far. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Permissible, but bad is he!]] You can't save it every time you apply so thick here, you'll have the following question: Where have you been? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my opinion, Khol argues that this point is still quite appropriate. At least he turns himself up and says: With the old team and – it was mainly a manhood – it did not go with the old partner, and therefore there was the break and so on. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: They were no longer reformable!]] Mr Khol! But it would be more reasonable if the members of the government of the ÖVP – I am not of the opinion that politics should have been changed as it is now done by this revolving coalition – would not constantly stand up here in line and act as if you had never been there. That's something I think is right. This is a problem of credibility that you have to answer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Bartenstein has said that it is not just this government that can put jobs on the hat!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: (in the direction of Abg. May. Kogler) You didn't listen to me!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - Yes, I've listened to you, but I'm far from enough. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Didn't you take care of what Bartenstein said?]] – Of course I listened. You could listen to me for a second, too. This discrepancy, expressed here by the Members of your group and the lack of determination on the part of the members of the government, must be clarified by yourself. But I would think of this as someone who wanted to be represented by the Chamber of Commerce or also by the ÖVP's Economic Association. Because the way some members of the government hang their flag after the wind, I wouldn't want to. This would cause a problem of credibility for the ministers concerned. But you have to take care of that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But also in the matter itself there is a lack of clarity, especially when it comes to the debate with the new coalition partner. It is therefore so important that one also diagnoses credibility by the way the past behavior was. What about the enlargement of the EU? – We can understand that if what the trade union federation demands is respected, the enlargement of the East will take a long time. This is simply a practical finding of economic data. If this were to be done on condition, I would give you the right. But that's not my problem, but it's your problem because you have a coalition partner playing a completely different game on this issue. You know very well what the Liberal Group is driving in questions of EU enlargement. You can't find a word for that. You'd rather point your finger to the left side of this house, and I think that's a little bit of my own. Finally, as you now claim to be or want to be the first in this government team, you should also proceed accordingly. In the old government you have been able to stand up and say: We are the second, every now and then you have to leave the coalition and start new elections when the surveys just fit. It has failed once, and the second time has been found with a false election promise, so to speak, the back entrance into the government. But I do not want to say what Gusenbauer said, of course I do not. I'm not of his opinion either. But that under the multiple break of election promises you have come to this government, that is also obvious, but is legitimate in a democracy. The voters should think about their part. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what about the Easter enlargement now? . We can show by another example that you are being forced into silence by the liberals, Mr Minister, which is the question of the very limited additional employment of qualified foreign professionals. We know exactly which positions you and the Economic and Social Committee have represented. But who is going through? – This is recognizable with a free eye: Without great effort, only with the usual horrors, which have a special alliance of economic hostility and xenophobicity, managed to do so: the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats! This is a policy you are bowing to in this coalition. And in view of that, are you making yourself up and talking about deregulation, the enlargement of the East and the beautiful values that fit your philosophy? - That's incredible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would still like to go to another area – we have limited ourselves to very short speaking times today, this will be You will probably be pleased – to raise a fundamental question, Mr. Minister, who, hopefully, will also answer you. We have been together several times recently in various privatization debates – among other things, the change in shop opening times is also expected in your opinion. Not only did you put it once, but it was quite clear with the following wording to your point: Deregulation is a value per se. – I think I am thinking that this is already loosed from everything possible into the room: Deregulation is a value per se. To this end, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to thank you for your support. I'm saying that's a total nonsense. Decoupled from anything, nothing is a value per se, and especially not in this area. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Education already!]] There are many areas of economic policy which are making problems today. I address the environment, but also energy and concentration trends in various sectors: There's a blatant market failure. You know that. We do not need to present the economic textbooks to each other in this regard. But in this case, even for a standing market economyr, the logical consequence would be that, in these areas alone, a strong state needs to be, because otherwise, the market economy could not work in its densed efficiency. But there's nothing to do with that. On the contrary: They do not stand up and say that we would need a strong state to advance environmental regulation. – Of course, it takes a state to advance the eco-tax reform, namely as financial and budgetary legislators. That would be a matter of course. But nothing happens. You got fired in this area. It is also no wonder that you are only talking about the social market economy, which is said to have been too social, and about the eco-social market economy that your predecessors have constantly preached about. But you only preached anyway, we know. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Sustainable!]] – Sustainable is a modern term that I would have ignored. I would quite agree with this joyous error of hearing, because the policy you are promoting has nothing to do with it, which is obviously not necessary, so you also need the ear to do so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the conclusion: Deregulation is not a value per se. – You should comment on this. I simply miss the clear orientation of a modern economic policy, which also integrates environmental policy. Of course! It is no longer a question of ecologizing the tax system. And this is particularly painful, Minister, as far as your person is concerned, since you used to be environmental ministers. Together with the FPÖ, the ÖVP has simply sunk this issue. Once it was at least another lip confession, now it's not even that again. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If you are in government, you can do it!]] – Mrs Fekter, you will be pleased, I know. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So please take a position on this. Finally, Mr Bartenstein. The energy sector really needs another guidance, including, as I mean, a political one. In this respect, a serious state and political failure is apparent, because it is not clear why a bunch of egoistic and federalistically blinded national leaders are holding up a successful Austrian solution. You know that very well, and there is no policy on the part of the federal government, at least it does not lead to any results. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Once there's a green captain, he can do all of this!]] You should also comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8337	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8358	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! If Mr Kogler believes that the Easter enlargement would be blocked or that positions have changed, I recommend that he read in the government agreement of the government parties. [[Abg. May. Kogler: I did that just before!]] It is very clearly held in it. If you may think of the problem with the Czech Republic and Temelin, I would like to give you the right that this is not so precise in time, because it is very likely whether this nuclear power plant will take account of the safety needs of the Austrians and whether it will be possible to complete the energy chapter or not. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am not the defender of the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, but I believe that he is wrong – and you know that – when you address ecologisation and ignore those measures that the government has to take, for example, the ElWOG, which was very likely to be taken into account to the extent of the use of renewable energy. But these are things you obviously have to ignore as a greener. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is making a tremendous contribution to what I believe is absolutely necessary reorganisation measures, to the renovation of the state budget – admittedly not with overwhelming enthusiasm, but simply in the knowledge of how important it is to ensure the future of our country, which, as I believe, has so far presented itself as an unsocial, responsible debt policy of the past 30 years among socialist heads of government and socialist finance ministers. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economic contribution is nevertheless in a scale of 18 billion schilling in addition to the previous tax and tax revenue from the economy. But I think it is well-established money, an investment in the future under certain conditions, namely that an administrative reform takes place at the same time, that procedural simplifications are made, that there are simplifications in plant law and a reduction in red tape, and that, of course, research and development are also increased accordingly. And this, ladies and gentlemen, takes place! This is location security, which is the security of Austria's economic location and at the same time also a safeguarding of jobs. You, dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, now you normally have to break out of your opposition role in calling for enthusiasm, in view of the data you know, the government programme you know, and if you are pursuing the policy that has so far happened in these first nine months. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why?]] I already know that I can't find too much understanding for this approach to you that your joy may have been dampened. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Why do we have to rejoice?]] But, ladies and gentlemen, you know what you left behind, namely, 2 200 billion schilling debts, that is, the prerequisite for the work of the new reform government, which has to start with cleaning up. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They always call upon the prosperity that Austria has. - Yeah, that's right. Austria has excellent prosperity, however, a prosperity on pump and at the expense of future generations. You always forget to say that. At any rate, I am pleased that the future-saving measures, which are in social balance, take account of fiscal performance. We are admittedly in the happy situation that we have a good economic development, positive effects on the economy, positive effects on the workplace situation, the labour market. The fact that the economy, which is in a difficult situation and is ready to make its contributions, naturally also wishes, is quite clear. It is clear that it is a wish of the economy that the additional wage costs will be reduced, which is envisaged and will certainly be realized during this legislative period. The aim is to ensure that the implementation is actually carried out. It is necessary to come from a policy of constantly increasing taxes and taxes to a policy that allows tax to be reduced and taxes reduced. It will be necessary to see something very unfortunate which has happened under a socialist finance minister, namely the introduction of the 13th. Sales tax deadlines for Austrian companies to eliminate – a one-time effect, which once brought a corresponding amount for the budget, without, of course, having a lasting effect – in the positive sense. The Minister of Finance is now faced with the problem that if he does so, he is the 13th. With regard to sales tax, it is not possible to rescind once more 17 billion schillings. It is a wish to actually implement the reduction of the bureaucratic effort. In this context, I remember – and this was also mentioned in the Committee – the Interstat reports that companies have to make. I urge you to really force research and development, in the knowledge that in this case a lever effect of one to nine is achieved, that is, a used schilling ultimately results in 9 S. But I am very confident – the figures show that the budget also provides for a corresponding increase in funding for research and development – that we are on the right track. I can thank Mrs Rossmann for her initiatives. It has succeeded in setting the necessary impulses that have had a positive impact on this so important economic segment of tourism. The figures prove that. I should like to congratulate her on her success in taking care of order in the area of Austrian advertising and in initiating the Austrian houses, so to speak, to use synergies and to save costs. I can also congratulate her for having born the idea of module teaching, one of my way forward. To sum up, I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that there is this turn-over government with this active policy that really brings about a turn. We are on the right track, and I can congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8451	The next speaker was Mr Heindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8473	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the final sentence of Mr Haigermoser, who was very demasking. He said thank you to the entrepreneurs who made Austria a flourishing country despite waste policy. – The more demasking one cannot express the contradiction in his thinking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we have a flourishing country – I recognize it, and I believe we are all in agreement – I wonder what the constant statements of words in which "bankruptcy", "rehabilitation" and the like are to be spoken more. So I think that this sentence is clearly what it really looks like in Austria. The truth is: Austria is a flourishing country – thank God! – and we hope it will be in a few years. It won't be easy, but please. Federal Minister! Up-to-date. I would like to deal with external trade. A message that I heard a few days ago was very disturbing to me: EU-US trade conflict so far. I think we know what it's all about. 64 billion schilling customs duties are charged by the EU as a result of this inconceivable banana dispute. What I want to go on is: What can we do? What can Austria contribute to preventing a trade war within the EU? Some commentators already write – in order to say it in Viennese – that the banana war had been a learner compared to what would come would really continue. And this has to be prevented, because I believe that we all – and all in this House and also outside this House – agree that the export was the driving force in the Austrian economy, the prerequisite for the rise in this country, and that we must do everything we can to ensure that the successful way of increasing the export rate, which has continued this year, can continue in the future. For a long time, we are not among the top export countries, but we are on the right track. Ten years ago, no one would have dreamed of Austria exceeding the 30-percent export rate at the end of the 1990s. We're on our way to 34, 35 percent, as I mean. Each percent more share of our export quota means more 30 000 jobs. If the export works, the export economy also works. So whenever you do something against protectionism and fair competition, you will have our full support! I would like to inform you in every form. I have talked about the success in the development of our export industry. Considering the last five years, a number clearly show what has happened here in Austria, in the supposedly bankruptcy economy of Austria alone in the last five years: Our exports increased by 41.3 percent, while world trade rose by only 6.3 percent compared to that – a respectable development! In this context, I have to make a few sentences about my colleague Puttinger – he's not here, but maybe he hears it, or it's going to tell him – say: I wonder once again that one does not take notice of realities. He does not want to take note of the facts, criticises the policies of the past, and pretends that the decisions that have led on the one hand to a successful export policy and on the other hand to a successful environment reflect the so-called socialist dictatorship policy. Please, does he really want to tell the public that there could have been a Council of Ministers decision without the ÖVP ministers being present? Does he want to tell us that there could have been a majority decision in this House without the approval of the EIA? This is such a refusal of reality that began in February. I remember exactly: When we discussed the last budget report here in January, Mr President, we were very stupid about this debate and spoke in admirably about Mr Edlinger, about what successful financial policy we have achieved. I am still in the ears of him talking about the success of Minister Edlinger's "point solutions". A few months later, it looks like it was nothing. I know that you, Minister Bartenstein – I respect that – argue more differentiatedly here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: We know a point landing from the budget!]] – Not I said that, but I quote. It is to be read what has been said. I just want to say it's not. A few more sentences on the export economy, because in five minutes you can't accommodate everything. The development shows us above all one thing: I would like to see an East policy! Mr Federal Minister – I know you were in Slovakia – the fight for the Eastern Markets will grow up, because there is potential there. I know that Russia has developed positively, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland. The other CIS countries have been extremely lost, and there too we have to do something. I see the second problem in regional terms in the Arab area, and there is not much going on there. In this respect, we must also become more active. We shall then say that tomorrow at the foreign policy debate. The third area is the service sector in general. If you look closely at your very loyal documentation in the external trade report, you realize that there is a need for re-examination. And Kramer is right to say that more needs to be done in this area. A final sentence on Easter enlargement. The fact that the colleagues from the union and the Chamber of Labour express their concerns is not only their legitimate right, but even their duty. I am just saying, the Socialist Group, that the Social Democratic Party is fully committed to enlargement. The reason for this is the following: We are following the development very closely. A broadcast of Chamber Presidents Nice only a few days ago can be seen what development the Eastern Region, Vienna, Lower Austria has taken in the last two, three years. It is only to be said that we should make a proper and reasonable Easter enlargement policy very quickly! To do this, you will find our consent. I can still express a concern. There is too little discussion about this because, thanks to our membership of the euro zone, we do not have such a problem. You know what I mean, the trend in the current account. Although we have a chronic current account deficit, in view of the fact that this has deteriorated by 10 percent within a year, has increased to 85 billion schilling and already accounts for 3 percent of GDP, i.e. gross domestic product, you, Mr. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, must ring the alarm bells! There is a need to examine the cause of this and ask where we can counter it, because in the longer term this is reflected in the accounts of the economy as a whole. In this sense, I would ask you to express your views on what you are planning in the EU, the USA and the current account. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8521	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8543	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about work in the context of the budget chapter on the economy and work. This is all too easy when looking at labour market development data, which are also reflected in the budget approach, where for the AMS offices, for example, the same amount – there is a slight decrease – could be budgeted for active labour market policies, for labour market policies a significantly increased amount, but on account of the drastic decline in unemployment, a much lower amount could be budgeted for unemployment support. This is reflected in labour market data, which is 3.1 percent below the target set by the NAP of 3.5 percent at the end of this year, and in the best youth employment. I am already curious about the final data in December on the courses, for which there are already horror reports. The intermediate position shows almost 8 percent more closures than in the previous year! And if we didn't have a population explosion this year that passed us unnoticed, this must lead to higher total numbers. Long-term unemployment decrease: 30 percent in less than 12 months, 40 percent in more than 12 months – also through projects such as "Integra", which were presented here a few months ago as forced labour and similar. Thank you, Federal Minister, for this approach, for this work, which has brought back work and entry into the work process for people who have long been excluded from the work process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I say it again: Abolition of early retirement in July. [[Abg. May. Posch: For the pilots!]] What has been prophesied here? – "They make a cold job out of old and sick people." The labour market report for the third quarter now states that in the population group over 55 years, 24 percent of the highest growth was recorded. – This is the true result of a policy that you have tried to torpedo! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I admit, of course, that positive economic trends also reflect: 2.8 percent of economic growth – an economic situation, but also due to the fact that we have not withdrawn anything from the tax reform and from the family tax reform. It would have been nonsense simply to take back something without changing the structure of expenditure. We have invested very consciously in domestic demand and in the internal economy, resulting in this positive labour market situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] In my opinion, however, the upturn can also be linked to an economic and political climate that sets clear objectives and makes decisions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Climate has never set targets!]] Mr. Federal Minister, I admire your respect for your predecessor and that you always point out – and this has its accuracy, and I do not want to dispute it 100% – that you have inherited a good labour market situation and policy. [[Abg. Edler: Look here!]] But I remember when we negotiated the age part-time model for one and a half years, with nothing going on. I am grateful to find now a government which is again making clear decisions. Ladies and gentlemen just from the SPÖ! If, in a few minutes' time, you are making a urgent request for the heating allowance, I would like to point out the following: ==References====External links== ==References====External links== [[Abg. May. Kogler: application!]] I see that you also want to take part in this, Mr Edler, but get used to the fact that this federal government is particularly concerned with labour and social policy issues at a speed that you can no longer perceive freely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Flexible markets are also more successful in the labour markets. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edler and Mr Mag. Posch.]] And I think it is quite right that a solution has now been adopted which, even with seasonal workers, does not simply accept that intermediate unemployment as a fixed component of wages is being accepted by the economy and labour – I know – but rather that we are at the forefront of our actions with the continuous and continuous employment conditions. [[Abg. May. Posch: Look here!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, must be the goal of a labour market policy that creates work for those who are grateful to God – I spoke yesterday to a works councillor from a modern technology company who said that they could probably be awarded ten places per candidate in the IT field – but also those who cannot work due to training or other shortcomings, but who want to provide appropriate help and support, and those who can work but do not want to do so – there is also a duty. This too, ladies and gentlemen, has come to my attention and has been short of me in recent years. This would be a labour market policy that would be worthy of being top representatives of the ÖGB in this debate and not just allied with the Thursday chaots against this government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edler and Mr Mag. Gaßner.]] Let me conclude by saying: It is the legitimate right of a union to stand up for its objectives and interests, including trade union combat measures, to be as absurd as the warning strike of the railways for the 53. Age of retirement. A legitimate right! [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's what you decide?]] ==References== In December, there is not even an attempt to put an employment policy objective in the foreground. Here, this ÖGB simply comes to stand as a spearhead against this government. The workers in this country have not deserved this! - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8698	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8719	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to comment on a sentence on the constant "chaot accusation" because it is really such an absurd discussion. I would like to try to show you how absurd this is. [[Abg. May. Trattner: But not destruction!]] We agreed in the last century and in this century that there are civil rights and human rights. This includes freedom of assembly, and this includes the right to freedom of expression. If Dr. Pühringer now participates in a demonstration at the border in Upper Austria, a student in Vienna or someone in Klagenfurt participates in a demonstration, then this is a civil right. And I would simply ask that it be respected once and for such rights, which are the cornerstones of our democracy, not to defame again and again by calling people who perceive these rights "chaots". [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We don't!]] – Do you not understand that this undermines our democratic principles? There is a right of assembly and a right to freedom of expression. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Focused on destruction!]] I ask you to really respect this. These are the basic pillars of our constitution! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, To the Federal Ministry Act maybe a short sentence. Mr. Stummvoll has come to life in view of the combination of the economic and labour sectors and has meant that, since this ministry is a former environmental minister, it is superficially considered to be a true sustainability ministry. Unfortunately, from my point of view, this is not the case. We have often criticised the integration of the economic and labour sectors. You know. The underlying idea and the danger is the elimination of mainly social concerns through integration. I am not very satisfied with the environmental orientation in this area either. It sometimes seems to me that Bartenstein has forgotten the demands made by former Minister for the Environment Bartenstein to the then Minister for Economic Affairs. Mrs. Fekter will not be happy now. But I'm just quoting! At that time, Minister Bartenstein took action to resolve the apparent contrast between the environment and the economy, and a prerequisite for this was the eco-social tax reform. I quote Minister of the Environment Bartenstein: The eco-social tax reform is essential for an eco-social market economy. This is one of his central concerns, work concerns, which he at least intends to implement. The time was ripe for an ecological tax reform, but not for the budget hole stop. – I still have about ten such quotes from you as Minister for the Environment. Other demands, which would have been particularly relevant from an energy and climate policy point of view: Least-cost planning in energy policy, European Energy Agency for the promotion of energy efficiency and alternative energies, general regeneration of feed-in tariffs were major demands of Minister of the Environment Bartenstein. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The ElWOG!]] In addition, environmental spraying of the standard consumption levy, as fast as possible adoption of the climate protection package. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: We did that!]] Mrs Fekter, this is going to be You are not happy either, but it is unfortunately a fact that the ElWOG has not succeeded in making the structure optimal due to real political circumstances. This is also confirmed by the Minister in the Committee. We have not even succeeded in establishing a federal network society. Thus, very essential conditions have not been met in this law. For this, fragmentation, the federal structure and the jealousy of the national leaders and of the energy companies are significantly responsible. You can't wipe that off the table. Unfortunately, it is so unpleasant! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fact that a consistent energy and climate policy is also an economic policy mission – this is also a quote from the then Minister for the Environment Bartenstein – that is, environmental and employment policies and objectives can be combined into the fact that the economic mix can be highly efficient, that is clear! We know that investments in climate protection mean regional added value, jobs mean that it has a high rerouting profitability, that it is a fresh cell cure for the Austrian economy, that it opens new export markets for sustainable products. I was at the climate conference in The Hague. There the German economy had a presentation. They have not only had bright eyes, but also golden noses: the plant builders, the windmill builders, the contracting companies, the consulting companies. So there is a lot of confusion in this area, because there is a climate change programme behind which not only is an environmental ministry, but the entire federal government there. I would also like this to be done in Austria: that climate protection is not delegated to the countries or to the Environment Ministers with 75 million Schilling additional budgets, but that this is also a total economic policy task – keyword: Sustainability – understood. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to comment briefly on two other points: In the previous debate, Mr Hofmann said two sentences on nuclear policy. This month, the Ministry of Economic Affairs will re-describe the power supply for all federal buildings. It will be a Europe-wide call for proposals. There are no – and I stress: no – arrangements have been made to ensure that we will not have a very high share of nuclear power in the Austrian Federal Schools in the future. My proposal would have been to ask Mr Bundesminister more closely for eco electricity, to revive this market, and to start with the federal buildings and also to achieve price reductions by means of a joint call for proposals. That was also a proposal to Minister Molterer. The green party headquarters in Lindengasse is converted to 100 percent eco electricity – my household, by the way! One last point: the trade order. I would just like to say one sentence – because this has been emphasized as the great "success story" of the last nine months under the motto "rerule": When I go to my gym, there talk to the nice gentleman behind the bar briefly two sentences and the keyword "rerule" falls, he asks: What's changed? I still have my shavings, I still need six concessions: for the swimming pool, for the sauna, for the solarium, for the appliances, for the bar and for the t-shirts I sell. – This typical problem, which we have been discussing for years, has not changed at all now, with the FPÖ in the government. The background – we know – is a mining industry: Many new professions are simply being tried to be shot off from the markets. This also concerns all the new occupations in the e-sector and, above all, professions such as solateurs and all those who are able to perform restricted tasks. Thus, nothing has changed at all – word "location policy". We also know that external financing and investment consulting companies say that in Austria, on the one hand, this problem is largely responsible for the fact that we are no longer investing – I believe, the OECD closing light on new business start-ups – but also another issue that is best addressed by a quote from Alexander Van der Bellen can be characterized: "Economic hostility and xenophobia" and the rigorous foreign employment rules. Another last sentence on Mr Tancsits: How you can present the "Integra" project as a success project is a complete mystery to me! I do not want to see projects on the back of the unemployed, which are so difficult to get away from the stand – until October in Vienna, it has not succeeded in getting even a single job for a long-term unemployed! – are presented as any successes that are not yet available to this day. This was now a speedy course through the unsatisfying economic policy from our point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you already know the unemployment rate?]] A special accusation is still to be made here: The environmental commitment has been given by former Minister for the Environment Martin Bartenstein at the Garderobe to the Ministry of Economic Affairs! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8849	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e8870	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Glavischnig, I would ask you not to fall into the same mistake as some members of the opposition, namely, asking the government to correct all the mistakes of the past within eight months. You know very well that, in particular, we liberals have always acted against this blatant bureaucracy which you have described, and that we will certainly do something about it in the course of our government. In eight months, however, it is not possible to renew the world. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say a few words to Mr Heindl: You have seen a contradiction in the final sentence of Mr Haigermoser, who spoke on the one hand about the waste policy of the socially democratically dominated coalition, and on the other hand has found that Austria is a flourishing country. – I therefore see no contradiction in this, because the entrepreneurs have done a lot to make Austria a flourishing country! You know very well, Mr. Deputies: Policy errors do not have a serious impact for so long, as long as entrepreneurs are able to compensate for these mistakes through wise and good management. This has always happened in Austria. Austrian entrepreneurs have really had to do very, very much in order to be able to correct the mistakes of the previous government's economic policy. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: And the workers not?]] We have now created new framework conditions through this new government. For example, there will be no re-indebtedness in the future, the order situation has improved and, despite structural measures, we have an economic growth that can measure with those other EU countries. [[Abg. Huber: Workers are exploited!]] – Are you not happy about it, Madam Members, that it is going up in Austria? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Are you not glad that unemployment has fallen, that we now have an employment situation such as in the past ten years? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: But this is not the merit of this government!]] In fact, the Social Democrats should be very happy about this! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is not the merit of this government!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government has set important impulses. It has strengthened confidence by reducing the deficit. This also strengthens the trust of entrepreneurs! You know very well that the psychological element in the economy is very important. I would like to say a few words about the additional labour costs policy, which has already been very much discussed today. It is a declared aim of the government to reduce additional labour costs. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Christmas money, holiday money!]] Unfortunately, I have to see again and again that for the Social Democrats, additional wage costs have to be borne as a class struggle theme, insofar as they claim that the poor are raised to the rich, if the economy is given the opportunity to reduce the additional wage costs. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: What do you want to reduce?]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Call me a measure!]] I also find quite briefly the statement by Mrs Kubitschek, who today meant that she would not regret the reduction in additional labour costs, because in reality unit costs would be significant and not the additional labour costs. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's it!]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, especially in Austria, as a country in which the service sector has such a large area, additional labour costs are really very serious, that it is naturally important to see how high the additional wage costs are. We are now in the European peak with regard to additional wage costs! The fact that economic competence among the social democrats is not very well trained, we have seen in the "Bank Burgenland" scandal and also in their own finances. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Excuse me now!]] – That is why your statements relating to economic policy are not very important either. But I would like to say something: My hope is that a reduction in additional labour costs will also achieve a sustainable factor in employment policy, because there are a lot of entrepreneurs who do not recruit employees due to the high additional wage costs. I could also imagine that if the Austrian labour force is approved, the call for foreign workers will no longer be made without interruption. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: It would be better for you to talk about something you know about!]] Of course, entrepreneurs want foreign workers because they suspect that they are cheaper, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Huber: How cheap will the labour force still be?]] I'd like to say something: It has nothing to do with xenophobia, which is constantly accused of being opposed to the employment of foreign workers. But I think that it is actually an enormous arrogance of the highly industrialized countries to say: We need IT professionals now, so let's get them out of India. – The next day we need pensioners for our system: All right, let's get her from abroad! – This is really not a policy that you can endorse with your human image, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] We must try in the first place to bring the workers in need of our economy to our Austrian sector. As long as older workers over 50 do not get a job in Austria, I am against the fact that a foreign specialist is being brought to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Mr. Minister! I believe it is very important to align the human capital you have spoken about a little better, more modern and so on, because we have nothing of a human capital that cannot be used properly because the training is not available. But that's what we're after. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I'd like to tell you something: It is always said that there are such outstanding IT specialists in India. In India, two years ago, the cost of training in this field has already been doubled in order to take account of the reputation for more professionals. I believe that, as Minister of Economic Affairs and as Minister of Labour, you must really be careful that our training is in line with the economy, that more people from the economy are also ready...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9080	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Do you want me to interrupt you, or do you want to end the speech? Then I'd ask you to come to the end of the sentence. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'm already at the end!]] - Please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9107	I would ask you to ensure that more people from the economy are aware of their capacity to train young people so that they can also have a future in our modern labour market!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9134	I am now interrupting the negotiations on the IX Advisory Group so that the discussion of the urgent request, as announced, can begin at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Rudolf Nürnberger and Mr Comrades on the increase in the fee, the kilometre and the disbursement of a federal heating aid (331/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9164	In this sense, we are moving towards the urgent treatment of Mr Nuremberger's self-employed motion for a resolution 331/A (E). This request has now been received in writing by all Members so that a reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9258	I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mr Nürnberger as the first applicant to justify the request. His speaking time is limited by 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9279	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! At the beginning of my speech, I should like to make a few press comments on the comments made yesterday by Mr Spindelegger and the statements made by Mr Tancsits today: OTS Release 0127 of 2. November: Workers' Chamber fractions "load to protest assembly: ,Now it's enough: Social justice instead of social security – common resistance to injustices under the cover, Spaces + Social Disfellowshipping.” Question – Difficulty level 1 –: Which chamber fractions were these? – The ÖAAB fractions of ÖVP, represented by President Dinkhauser and Vice-Presidents Dirnberger and Gajdosik from Vienna, Lower Austria and Tyrol, ladies and gentlemen. Another press release – APA 0163 –: "ÖAAB Works Councils demand from mandaters No to Bartenstein plans." – "Individual actions – such as by Mr Michael Spindelegger, who in the summer "mortariously" – "mortariously" under quotation marks – "opposed against the deterioration in pensions – would no longer be tolerated by the basis, since in the future all have to be in the middle of it", Dirnberger summarizes a "sofort measure" as a result of the protest assembly (...)." ÖAAB-Obmann Fasslevend: "I demand a fair burden sharing between workers and employers", the ÖAAB-Bundesobmann stressed." Dear Mr ÖAAB-Bundesobmann! Where were we at the "Action Fairness"? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We already decided!]] – Just a few days ago, I reported from a brochure of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, 2.8 billion Schilling Körberlgel money from the pockets of the workers into the pockets of the employers, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's already decided!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's already decided the action fairness!]] – This is the burden distribution of a Mr. ÖAAB-Bundesobmann! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are so rare here, that's why...!]] And now another question: What distinguishes Mr Vergestnitsch, Mr Riepl, some other Members who are very close to the ÖGB, and above all a spindlegger and a tancsit? – We, ladies and gentlemen, have not yet been reminded of our responsibility by any of our officials and members. We feel solely responsible for our electorate, as President Verzellnich said yesterday, and we know that we are primarily responsible for the interests of the workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We understand just by representing the clientele, for which we feel responsible, that we also very often take a different view, a different attitude than our clubman, because we have a backbone – also in our own party, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What about the clubman?]] But the spindleggers and Tancsits have a backbone like a music key, like a music key! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The clubman has no backbone?]] Now on your own topic. You have the honour of representing the Federal Minister, Mr State Secretary. I am now quoting a few press releases addressed to the Federal Minister, but you are carrying out his actions, so please refer them to yourself. ==References====External links== November – a few days old –: "Grasser's fairytale hour costs employees billions" – referring to Grasser's statement in his Tyrolean visit, according to which the budget would primarily be rehabilitated on the expenditure side. What do you think who said that? – ÖVP and ÖAAB member Dinkhauser, ladies and gentlemen! [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] The same Fritz Dinkhauser – AK President in Tirol and ÖVP member –: "Employees would be burdened with billions." "Highly criticised the savings plans of the Federal Government and Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grassers." Then the same Fritz Dinkhauser – a member of the ÖVP – brings figures. I do not want to read everything to you now, but just mention the most important figures that your member of the ÖVP calls. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] "When we calculate the labour and social burden together, the experts would be able to put 34.4 billion schilling loads next year. On the other hand, companies and self-employed would only have to make a contribution of around 7.1 billion schilling." – "In 2003, according to today's calculation, the employee's contribution even increases to 43 billion schilling while the companies" – and now you listen, Mr. Ex-Secretary-General stupid! – "to be relieved by 3.4 billion schilling." – Fritz Dinkhauser, ÖVP member. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is the work of the government! The Gaugg...!]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, at the fairy tale hour – this expression I also allow myself to use – two thirds of the people, especially the workers, are not affected by the measures of the Federal Government. – The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen. I will then give you a study of the Chamber of Workers, which is brand new – wait a little until I have spoken out, because then you will save yourself such calls! – and also based on statements by economic experts from the Economic Research Institute. [[Call at the ÖVP: This is very "objective"!]] – I hope you do not wish to question the credibility of these economic professionals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] But before I go into the whole package of measures, which reflects the burden policy of this government, I would also like to make a few comments on the large increase in prices for petrol, diesel, fuel oil, energy and transport. These price increases, of course, have the effect of reducing income, real income loss, those people who have the lowest income in our country. I admit – need it They do not draw my attention – that of course we have the problem of rising rosil travel – that is certainly not to be rejected by hand – but the Minister of Finance is making up of these price increases in energy, gasoline, diesel a basket money of around 2 billion schilling, my very dear ladies and gentlemen! To make you feel a little bit like this: How much schilling does that have to do with such a household with an average income, whose family members – because they worked well, made a lot of themselves, and because many friends helped – were able to create a small average family home? – They need about 4,000 liters of heating oil per season. As the price of heating oil has now increased by around 3.50 s from the previous year, only the extra burden of such a household with a medium income in the coming heating season is 14 000 S! This is more than a net monthly wage! They have to spend it alone so that they do not have to sit in the cold, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Edlinger and Mr Hornek.]] Come now Please don't ask me with the argument: Then they have to avoid gas or electricity! – There the increase is in exactly the same dimension! That is why we demand - because we believe that is justified - that the Minister of Finance will pay a monthly heating allowance of 500 S for the months of October to April of the year of the sum of 2 billion schilling to those people in our country whose net income is below 12 000 S. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Please leave away the tricks to give only those who live in federal states who do something – they can do it without a doubt. Next area in your load package regarding increases in transport costs: In addition to diesel and petrol, you have also increased the vignette price, the insurance tax et cetera. [[Abg. Wattaul: Who raised the diesel?]] The hardest hit is the pendler. However, my colleague, Mrs Pepper, who comes from a region in which there are a lot of commuters, will go into it in particular. But how do you react, the blue-black government, to it? – You want to get out of your responsibilities, even though you, ladies and gentlemen, have a basket money! What did you do? As an alibi treatment, you have increased the large flat rate by 20 percent, although you know very well that only 20 percent of those affected can benefit. Now I remind you: How did previous governments react, under the leadership of social democracy, if there were increases in transport costs? – Then we adjusted the shuttle fee and adjusted the mileage. But when you pay a mile – do you want to say anything, you have something to say? – ladies and gentlemen, you will save in a double way: first of all, as far as you don’t have to pay for it to your federal staff, and second – and that’s typical for you – by: [[Abg. Wattaul: You have also made 2,000 billion debts!]] [[Call at the SPÖ – in the direction of the Abg moving next to the banks of the Freeman. Wattaul –:Reset! Seat]] Of course, they try to relieve private employers, as far as possible, because – and I know what I am talking about – in almost all collective contracts in the metal sector, for example, official mileage is the basis for travel expenses compensation. If you were to increase the official mileage, our private employers would also have to increase it in the collective contract. Therefore, don't increase it because you'll make sure that enough money flows into employers' pockets. – This is the second argument behind it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are here in good company, because also the nearby car driver club ÖAMTC, as well as of course the ARBÖ that is close to us, demands an increase in the mileage. Therefore, with today's urgent request – and there you will be able to show whether you are a little at heart – we demand an increase in the amount of miles of money by 50 grand and an increase in all commuting fees by a third! The Minister of Finance can pay the loose out of the basket money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (pointing to the gallery) Unfortunately, it is not a journalist above – just one!]] Let me now quote some of the facts from the study I mentioned, and then come out and say that the numbers are not right! - You won't succeed. The net income in Austria is 1 266 billion schilling. Of these, the lower third has 192 billion schilling, the middle third has 384 billion schilling and the upper third has 689 billion schilling available – i.e. 15 percent below and 55 percent above. [[Abg. Gaugg:... after 30 years SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The SPÖ is responsible for this!]] Impact of the load package number 1 – for example, tobacco levy of 1.2 billion schilling –: The lower third is charged with 0.13 percent of family income, the upper third being 0.07 percent. – Electricity: Lower third 0.45 percent, upper third 0.18 percent. – I will now shorten this and take the total of all these effects: The lower third is burdened with 1.6%, the upper third being 0.8 percent. Marterbauer and Walterskirchen – that is, not workers' chamber or union experts, but Wifo experts – calculated that by increasing indirect taxes, the lower third of people are twice as heavily burdened as the upper third. Three measures will be taken by workers at the end of the employment relationship. And who has to end his employment relationship very often in one year? – seasonal workers! These usually have very low incomes and belong to the lower or middle incomes. [[Abg. Gaugg: How is it after 30 years of SPÖ?]] You will be asked for the checkout at the time of the holiday pay quota, the cancellation of the post search and the taxation of holiday and cancellation compensation! – Don’t hit your hands, because that goes into the thousands of schillings, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Gaugg: How is that? After 30 years of SPÖ, you must all live in Paradise!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: How did you do this?]] Self retention in health insurance – e.g. ambulance fee –: Even now, for private health expenditure, the lower income third must spend 4.1 percent and the upper third 2.4 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why did you do this?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Why have you been watching for 30 years?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Load package number 2: There's the hardest piece I've ever seen – please tell us now, Secretary of State, why only one employee should not be affected by this burden! – the halving of the amount of workers' redundancies. And you claim that two thirds are not affected! Of course you will also argue: He can get half back, because he only needs to pay – you nod – in a private pension provision. – How a person who earns 10 000 S or 12 000 S net a month should be able to pay 13 000 S annually – for which he would have to invest more than a net monthly wage! –, you have to explain that to me! [[Abg. May. Trattner: What do you deserve?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: How much do you have? - 120 000 or 240 000?]] You must show me to the employees who can afford this, Mr State Secretary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Load package number 3: There are the hardest chunks in it, the planned taxation of accident pensions. I'll remind you: The accident insurance companies have established themselves as their liability insurance. Therefore, the accident pension for a compensation payment, as it is done if my car is damaged or broken in the event of an accident, is equal. Ladies and gentlemen! If you know that the average beneficiaries of an accident pension receive an amount in the order of 3,000 to 4000 s and you get 2 billion schilling there and that, in return for the foundations, whose total volume is 500 billion schilling, you get only 2 billion, and you get to hear from you that this is not a redistribution, then, ladies and gentlemen, you probably don't know what a redistribution should be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me tell you what summation is being drawn in this study: Minister Grasser's thesis that measures to achieve the zero deficit would not affect 75 percent of the population cannot be accepted. Indirect taxes, fees and self-retainables the lower incomes are twice as high as the upper incomes. The savings measures in the context of social security are based on negative redistribution effects, in particular the reduction in family allowances and the taxation of accident pensions. – Equally negative redistribution results in a reduction in the amount of amortisation. I have already mentioned the not all-yearly employees. Now to the last point in which the whole thing is cast a little bit into numbers. It says that the lower-income third is affected by 8.5 billion schilling, whereas the besservers are only affected by 4.5 billion schilling. – Now remember what the income distribution looks like: 15 percent to 55 percent, ladies and gentlemen! What to do You as the government party in view of these facts? – They take in twenty million schilling tax money, make huge poster and advertising promotions and want to sell people for stupid by providing them with wrong arguments and wrong numbers, ladies and gentlemen! That's your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If this is not a redistribution from bottom to top – and I am certainly far above being class fighter here... [[Cheerfulness with the liberals as well as the abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr. Federal President, you can easily laugh! You'll get more for your clients than you've gotten before, but the workers will get billions out of the bag! There I can easily laugh! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The farmers have anyway only more... percent, the Kubitschek has said of your party!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! I ask you to: Come on. You are out and call me, if you can, an employee in this country who is not affected by your actions! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] That must be many if you want to agree that 75 percent of people are not affected. I would also like to draw up an argument from you here: The Federal Minister always loves to come with Taferln and the like – you, Mr State Secretary, are likely to do the same – so that we can assume that people are left more. – I can remind you that thanks to God there was a tax reform, otherwise you would be in an even greater need for argumentation! Only a tax reform that has shaped social democracy, which you voted against and which we have decided to do, will you owe it to you. – This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bad argument!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Football quotes are these!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Football quote from Nuremberg!]] [[Call to the liberals: Has he already counted his millions?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's about billions!]] Now let me also make a few comments, because this has already been liked today, on the human chain of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation on 5 May. ==References== Dr. Stumbling! Only a single sentence to you – I have heard your statement about the human chain: The new President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce is heartily to congratulate him for helping you out as Secretary-General, and I am glad that you have nothing more to talk about today in the Social Affairs Council! Your statements on social partnership have disqualified themselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as Mr Tancsit's statement is concerned, there would be no workers' objectives in the human chain, no workers' interests. [[Abg. Steibl: (a edition of the "Small Newspaper" to keep up) Are the interests of workers?]] I ask you: What are the interests of workers who are burdened to the extent that nothing is paid? I assure you, and this is also addressed to the address of Klubobmann Khol: They will not be able to make the Chamber of Labour, the ÖGB and the trade unions in this country mouth dead. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is class struggle like in the First Republic!]] We won't let it take us, 5th. December – and we hope for it – to draw the public's attention to these non-social measures with a peaceful human chain.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9865	Regarding the submission of an opinion on the subject-matter of the urgent request, Secretary of State Dr. Fanz in word. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e9887	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I give Mr Nürnberg's right to say: The cost of energy and transport has increased. You can read it at any gas station. Completely right! It is also true that this increase is mainly and primarily caused not by us but by foreign countries. The oil producers cause this increase, and there is therefore a flow of purchasing power to foreign countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Where I do not give you any more right – I will go even closer to that – the accusation is that the Minister of Finance is making a "currant" money. This is an unjust claim! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: What is wrong with higher taxes?]] In your urgent request, reference is made to the motor insurance tax and the cost of the motorway vignette. – These two increases are not affected by higher oil prices because they are independent of consumption and kilometers. [[Abg. Edlinger: Sales tax revenues have increased!]] I am already talking about sales tax; You gave me the tag. The former Minister of Finance, a certain nobleman, has proposed an increase in the tax on mineral oil. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With a driving capacity of 20,000 kilometers per year – that is realistic –, consumption of eight litres per 100 kilometres, an increase of 1 s was planned until 2001. This would have led to an annual load of 1,920 s. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This would have been paid by the drivers with you!]] In relation to this, the motor insurance tax for an average passenger car – you mention it yourself in your urgent request – is only an increase of 1 300 p. – your proposal would have meant a higher load by 600 S! [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how it is, Mr. Edlinger!]] Sales tax: reportedly 2 billion schilling in surplus income. – This invoice can only be made available to someone who is charged with the fuel price alone, but does not take into account that a higher fuel price will result in a shift; the consumer behaviour does not remain stable. Although there is more revenue on sales tax on mineral oil products at a higher fuel price, less other products are purchased for this purpose. No one has any more money in the bag – and this is why there is less revenue in these areas. [[Abg. Cruel: Aha!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction SPÖ) Edlinger cannot understand!]] In addition, you know that anyway, it is a Community federal tax. Of these, only two thirds of us remain. However, what you have forgotten in your request is that a higher mineral oil price also means higher expenditure for the federal government – as if we had no higher heating costs than if we had no higher expenditure on petrol and no higher diesel price to pay! In reality, nothing of this increase remains for us! That's a zero-sum game! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] So, although we do not have the money, we have defined it for social reasons: No one should therefore sit in the cold room because the oil producers increase the oil price, and no one should come to his place of work. We have therefore increased the penalty rate very effectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Only by 20 percent – and only the big one!]] The shuttle fee has replaced the former car fee, is now a transport-independent package. This is intended to encourage everyone to use mass means of transport; their prices have risen far less than petrol prices. It is therefore not justified to replace a petrol price where there is no price to replace it. This is against an increase in the general rate of penalty. On the other hand, in those cases where the use of mass means of transport would be unreasonable, or where there is no mass means of transport available, the use of a car is essential. In these cases, of course, a charge for the increased fuel costs is very justified, and we have also complied with this by an increase of 20 percent: At two to 20 kilometers we will pay in the future, i.e. in 2001, 3 600 S – so far 2 880 S –, between 20 and 40 kilometers 14 400 S instead of 11 520 S, in the category 40 to 60 kilometers 24 480 S instead of 20 160 S and over 60 kilometers 34 560 S instead of 28 800 S annually. For kilometre money: On the one hand, the increase in the amount of kilometre is part of the competence of Mrs Vice-Chancellor, but I would like to address it now. From the Federal Ministry of Finance's point of view, it should be noted that the current calculation of mileage is based on a wrong system. Our mileage is much higher than that in Germany, because this form of calculation of average costs is assumed – and is not taken into account that a private person uses his car for himself and provides only to a certain extent his own passenger car for service purposes, for professional purposes. It therefore has to be expected from the outset with fixed costs, such as insurance costs. If it makes the vehicle available for service purposes, it therefore has no higher insurance contribution to pay. The vignette doesn't cost any more. It is therefore necessary to change to a new system, which, according to consumption, is only based on border costs, only on the more actually occurring kilometres. As long as this moves in a certain kilometre range, the amortisation value does not increase either because the kilometre value is relatively independent, while the amortisation value is calculated after the period of time. [[Abg. There's nothing else you're going to charge us here, and it doesn't apply to the economy either!]] In Germany there is that. With regard to heating costs, the Federal Government has assumed that the socially needy is to be helped, although the increased costs are caused by foreign countries and, if externally caused costs are replaced domestically, there is always the risk of driving inflation. This has to be taken into account in the whole problem, that no one has anything of it if we do a cost replacement for which we have no money at all. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a beautiful argument and very ideological!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is too complicated for the Edlinger!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] This applies only to the extent to which it is caused internally. Otherwise, a multiplier factor – see what is being done in Germany – results in a heating of domestic inflation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's easier to predict!]] We will double the targeted subsidy to the heating costs that the countries grant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For this purpose, we have planned a total grant of 600 million Schilling. The decision to benefit from such grants and to what extent assistance is provided is the sole responsibility of the countries. Organizational settlement is also the responsibility of the countries. The Federal Offices will be available in the framework of official assistance to the countries or municipalities for any technical and organisational assistance. Applications by the countries for the grant of the federal grant shall be submitted to the Federal Ministry of Finance within one week of the notification of the amendment to the Financial Balance Act 1997. The disbursement will continue to take place at the expense of the 2000 financial year, i.e. a rapid aid, at the latest in January 2001, in order to make it effective during this heating period. According to my knowledge, all countries have already taken appropriate measures. I don't know anything about Vienna yet. But I hope it will be there too. [[Oho-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] I hope I answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10131	Thank you, Mr State Secretary. It was not a question, it is a request, and gratefully you have delivered an opinion on it. We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to this: no more than 25 minutes, no more than 10 minutes. For actual corrections no speaker more than 2 minutes. The latter now applies to honourable Members, who have spoken in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10167	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger, the most important obstetrical of this government, in his contribution to the debate in his own constituency, has meant that the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce has helped me to become the Secretary-General. In this one sentence there are two untruths, Mr Nürnberger. First of all, it's not true that I've been halved. President Leitel has always taken the view that: Function between the social partners and Parliament. I've agreed. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You could take an example of this...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10198	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like Please, the facts to be corrected and the actual facts!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10213	The second correction is that Mr Nürnberger should actually know that there is no longer a Federal Chamber of Commerce, but the Austrian Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10243	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Measured by the actual corrections One thing this was a master achievement!]] This is a very subjective position, Mr Klubobmann. Mrs Bures has now come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10273	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I am not surprised that the actually competent, Federal Minister Grasser, the gentleman who will go into the history of this country as the Lord with the cold heart, will not be present in this discussion today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's abroad, that's what has already been said!]] Mr State Secretary! However, as you have just said, you are a worthy representative of Mr Grasser. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has not been a question of answering any questions, you have already made it clear to the President, but of whether you are aware of the problems many people have in this country because of the high price of petrol, especially because of the high price of heating oil. So far, it has been shown that the needy people cannot expect any solution to their problems from this federal government. You have absolutely no understanding of people's problems because you're sitting in the golden cage because it's about Abcashen and not about help. With help you are hesitant, and that in all areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! They have raised the question of the causes of the high price of petrol and heating oil. It's not you. You don't have anything to do with that. That's not the way it is, of course. You would have the opportunity to make regulations. But above all, you would have the opportunity, since you may not be one of the causers, but at least one of the profiters of this situation, because you have massive extra income from VAT – which amounts to around 2 billion schilling – at least part of the money of those who pay it also return, namely those people who belong to the low and lower income groups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are those people who are massively affected by your burdens. This March, that those families who earn under 30,000 s would not be affected at all, no one will take you away, because the chickens laugh. This has, as it were, gone without it. There you can put 80 million schilling in a staging campaign or 100 million. This is the overall problem of the Federal Government: The focus is on loads, abshens, staging. You're different from us. With us, people are at the heart of the problem as well as problems for the people who do not have such income as you refer to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Haha! For God's sake!]] These people are massively affected by your burdens. And therefore, it is not true that the national economics is a zero-sum game that you have no more revenue. The increase in consumer expenditure, which affects each individual, through an inflation rate that is home-made to your tax rate, with your tax rate, leads to a reduction in the savings ratio, because these people have to dissolve their savings books in order to be able to afford their lives, on the basis of the burdens you have put. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr State Secretary! I don't know if You know to say the untruth or whether it happened to you quite simply like that, but to talk about that there has been no increase in the car rental cost index, that is completely absurd. [[Oho Rufe at ÖVP]] Of course, this has something to do with the fact that people have been paying almost twice as much for the motorway vignette for two days, and of course it has something to do with the fact that the motor-related car tax has been increased by 1 300 S. Of course, all of this has led to an increase of more than 10 percent in the car cost index. Do you know what the difference to previous governments is? Although there has been criticism there or there, the amount of money in the past has naturally been increased if the costs have increased by more than 10 percentage points. Today, as in all areas, this Federal Government is fast in the process of abcasHing, but less in helping. I call on you to increase the amount of money for miles, because this is also in the interest of those people who need it to reach their jobs. That sounds so technical: the small pendler's fee, the big pendler's fee. Sage You've got it: 80 percent of the taxpayers do not get schilling and do not know if they can still afford the fuel price. That's fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Pensioners: That's where you decided to raise 0.8 percent. You were also cynical and have talked about over-retirement increases in recent years. I can call you a lot of pensioners who have small pensions. [[Abg. Vienna: Why are there small pensions after 30 years of social democracy?]] Over a quarter gets less than 7,500 S. They are not sitting in the warm nest today, they may have difficulty in the heating oil price to make sure they have a warm apartment. They meet tenants, especially flats where they depend on heating oil. You will find these anyway with your massive deterioration in the rental area, with your uncertainties and increases in rents. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about your rent? 56 S per square meter! Very little!]] It also concerns all those who have to expect additional costs of 14 000 s due to the increase in the price of heating oil. This is a real problem for families. I therefore urge you not to evade your responsibility and to say: This is where the countries are now to be active and the few growlings are to be spent. – Take the extra income you get from these high fuel oil prices and give them to people whose income is below 12 000 s, so that they will not be able to cope with those burdens that they may not be able to afford and therefore will have to spend this winter in a cold apartment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This scrapping action, which you are starting here, your helplessness and reluctance when it comes to actually addressing the problems of the people, is a political scandal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] This is a political scandal, as you do not actually deliver it every week, not every day, but – as we do today – hourly. There is no consideration, there is no respect for people. If I remember the discussion with your FPÖ national party from the moment before, I have to say that you really do not hold back from disdaining people or from their dignity – not even before the office and person of the Federal President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I call on you to accept this request. This is a request for concrete assistance. I do not think it is immoderate, but I think it is a very urgent request, which can be decided quickly, because in spring a heating grant would be too late. But that would be in line with your cynical policy. I call on you to agree to the request for a general increase in the rate of penalty by one third, to increase the amount of kilometre by 50 percentage points and to grant a heating allowance of at least 500 s per month for all those who receive an income of less than 12 000 s in that country. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Helpless grant!]] If you do not agree with this request, then it actually confirms your policy: a very social policy and, above all, a policy of social incompetence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10442	Mrs Gatterer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10463	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It not only contradicts the long-standing tradition of making urgent requests to budget debates – but well, the times are changing. However, what is really obscene to me is that today, in a urgent request, you demand what is largely with 1. January's entry into force. It's not understandable to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where? Where? In which country?]] It is even more incomprehensible that you have refused, for example, the heating allowance and the improvement of the shuttle fee. No one really understands that you are demanding something else today. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are you talking about?]] Now on the comments made by Mr Bures and Mr Nürnberger. Mrs Bures! The ÖVP is in favour of people being at the heart of their policies. However, you do not share the view of your colleague, Nürnberger. For example, in the case of the accident pension, this has brought the comparison with the broken car. To do this, I have to say: For us, people and machines are very, very different in every relationship. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Ah!]] You should discuss with him – you sit next to each other anyway – what is important to you and whether you can compare people to machines in this house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] State Secretary Dr. Finz has already stated that the petrol prices are of course a burden to everyone, but they are not homemade. In a global world, we just depend on economic cycles, on high fuel prices. It is sad that the increase in OPEC's funding volume has not really led to a discharge and that we today have a very high, five times higher petrol price. This, of course, also affects petrol, heating oil and natural gas, on heating in general. Of course, social weak, commuters – I am commuting myself from a federal country to Vienna – are child-rich families who have to heat several rooms or a house, single parents and pensioners especially burdened. We know that we know that they have more spending. But you also have to admit to the government that it has recognized this problem immediately and has also addressed it and has tried to find a real solution. Mr. Ex-Minister Edlinger! I'm sure you know this pink paper – these were still pink times. At that time, you said that there must be an increase in the MEST, at the earliest possible time in the year 2000: for petrol by 60 grts per litre, for diesel by 50 grts per litre – more revenue of 2 billion for the Minister of Finance; with effect from 2001 the MEST for petrol will be increased by another 40 grts per litre, for diesel by 30 grts per litre. – total revenue 6.5 billion. [[Call to the liberals: Oho!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Edlinger wanted to kick the drivers! Thank God there's no longer the Edellinger!]] That is why I am wondering why, for example, you do not recognize it as an essential step, as the first step of the government, that they said no to increase the oil tax. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The second essential step was to ensure that this government immediately became aware of an improvement or a heating grant. They know that this is in the competence of the countries. The EIA or this government insists that we support the countries in their concerns, but they do not want to go ahead in their decisions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why we have decided to take immediate steps to deal with this difficult situation. We will therefore double the heating aid of the countries. I think the greatest joy with this approach must be for the Viennans, where there are a lot of older people – you are so important to pensioners. I believe that the government's initiative will result in support of the city at last in Vienna. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] It is repeatedly spoken of by your side of social cold, of a cold heart. . This government insists that there is social justice and, as the Secretary of State said, we guarantee that there will be no cold space in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the pendler's fee: The Minister of Finance has already said that there will be an increase in the large flat rate. I would, however, like to look beyond the national borders, especially where your sister parties are at the government, because the prices of petrol are not only national: In Belgium, for example, the fuel price is 15,62 S, in Italy 15,41 S, in the Netherlands 16,78 S, and – you hear and marvel! – in the country of Tony Blair, the diesel prize is 18,74 p. I think we should hold that in this debate. Personally, it is important to try to give support. In this debate, I believe it must be pointed out that, despite Sparbudget, this government sets out social measures that it will immediately recognize when special measures should be taken, such as for example in the heating grant or the penalty fee. The choice of your language, on the other hand, is becoming more and more difficult. They write in the urgent request: "In contrast to the repetitious repeated untruths of the members of the government". – Unfortunately, you are not able to learn, because in a budget debate there should not have been this urgent request at all. If you're already talking about "pray-mill-like," you have to say: You repeat things that have been solved for a long time, which you demand over and over again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Where?]] Despite your accusation of replaying, I have to say: They try to bring the Austrians to the fore on a regular basis – prayer mill-like: You're so bad! You're so bad! You're so bad! [[Abg. Edlinger: It's coming!]] I'll tell you one thing: If you continue like this, that will definitely apply to your party.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10626	The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10647	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The very low presence of colleagues from the Social Democratic Party is probably a clear indication that even the rear ranks have already learned what to say in the next one and a half years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Something else than a repetition of the debate you have repeatedly held in prayer for those who sit further behind so that they can also understand it and sell it outside, although it is not true. But obviously they've already gotten that and they don't want to hear the x-t casting anymore. This is probably the reason why so few can be found in the Social Democratic series. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, before I deal with this no longer urgent request, I have, especially for the listeners, a very sensational report, as I mean, in connection with the favorite theme of Pilz: [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Make a contribution!]] One of the public prosecutors' reports, official and official, now confirms that the famous alleged letter of the Haider-Leibwachter Horst Binder to Jörg Haider – ladies and gentlemen: good watch out, that is officially confirmed – is actually falsified. [[Call out to the liberals: Oh, that's it! False! That's crazy!]] I understand the disappointment with the Greens. This is the main index for the preliminary surveys against the head of state of Carinthia as a fake, and the whole thing gets a new dimension from which you, colleague Oellinger, do not like to hear because the accusations against Jörg Haider collapse. [[Abg. May. Stoisits calls from their place.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Stoisits is calling the mushroom!]] Now it becomes obvious that this story was planned by a long hand and once again it was about defaming FPÖ-Mandatare before a choice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Who gave Horngacher the story?]] Who gave Horngacher the story of? We'll ask...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10737	Mr Schweitzer! Of course, I have the opportunity to give you the opportunity to say something that is important to you in several sentences. But the subject of the urgent request is the shuttle fee. I would draw attention to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10752	Yes, Mr President. I just want to say one more sentence: Thus the end of scandalization has arrived, but a start for a new scandal has been given. I'm curious where the acting persons will be found. Now go to colleague Nürnberger. Mr Nürnberger! We have agreed in the FPÖ that we will never criticize you – no matter what you claim here. Finally, you are the founding father of this reform coalition, and I thank you once again for the then No. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The historians will also know how to evaluate it accordingly when they will later write the history books: They are a major responsibility for the renovation of Austria through this reform coalition. – Thanks again. Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to the debates that have been repeated since the start of the budget consolidation, I notice that you have the same thing coming from you over and over again. They demonstrate at a reform rate, which is marked by a wage tax reduction, which ultimately leads to the fact that, despite a few less measures, small incomes in particular remain below the limit than they have been in the past. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] They want to sell a burden on the little people. The fact is: Under the rule, for the so-called small earners and the small earners, more remains than was the case under your government. You won't discuss that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You demonstrate here and with your helpers on the street against the family money introduced by this government. It's a matter of concern to us families, obviously not to you. They demonstrate here and also outside against the equality of workers and employees. All these are reforms that this Federal Government has implemented within a very short time. My colleague, Mr Pepper, will be able to say a few things about what I am saying, because this heating aid has been criticised by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! There are national regulations almost everywhere, and gratefully, our Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser has agreed to double the heating cost subsidies available under national legislation. Mrs. Pepper! Where does Mr Finanzminister Karl-Heinz Grasser not have this possibility to double the heating aid? There is a federal state in Austria where Karl-Heinz Grasser cannot double the heating cost grant. Which state is that? – [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That could be Vienna!]] It's the Burgenland. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The socialist Burgenland!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For a long time under socialist leadership under the head of state Stix. He has failed to create a heating grant by national law. That is why we do not have the opportunity to double the grant of the government led by the liberals and the ÖVP. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They have forgotten them, the Burgenländer!]] The Burgenländer suffers from the fact that Stix was sparse on this issue. This is to be criticised for the heating aid. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But it is another, still red-led federal country to criticize when it comes to the burden of small people. Nowhere are such unsocially high kindergarten contributions taken up as in Vienna. It is in the hands of the city of Vienna, it is in the hands of the mayor Häupl to take social measures and to make the kindergartens for small earners cheaper for the low-earners accordingly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! In other parties the costs of kindergartens are well below 1 000 S. Here in Vienna you pay 3,000 to 4000 S per month, in Burgenland 450 S, in Lower Austria in all municipalities less than 1 000 S. There's a need for action. In the Social Democratic Vienna, the mayor can still do a lot for the small earners. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He will be elected next year!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You have no idea!]] Mr Nürnberger! I would have liked to ask you a question: Where were your urgent requests in 1996 and 1997 when load packages with a total of 100 billion schilling were decided? Pure tax increases! Where were the urgent requests from the Austrian trade union of Mr Nürnberger? This union, with Mr Nürnberger and all his trade union representatives sitting here, has voted everywhere. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Edler.]] Mr. Edler! Do you remember? – 100 billion schilling loads have you decided to do so without picking with the eyelash. Today, the ÖGB – for us of course not really surprising – turns out to be a fighting machine – but as a little successful – against this reform government. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal government is preparing two reform budgets within a few months, from the point of view: never again debt, never again interest. [[Abg. Edlinger: Three load packs, Mr Schweitzer!]] What are you doing? – They come out and criticize without argument, you complain the pace. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm not complaining about a pace!]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Mr. Ex-Finance Minister! When else, rehabilitation, if not in high economic times? Since the Federal Government is in office, we have had the lowest unemployment rate for a long time. Almost full employment, a high level of senior employment, a high level of youth employment. Youth unemployment could be drastically reduced. [[Abg. Edlinger: And that with this government! Imagine what a great country this is!]] There is a large number of new business start-ups and many new jobs in the Federal Government. Investors have great confidence in the reform power of this federal government. During your reign, there was no such confidence. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this balance sheet can be seen, this balance sheet is in the interest of the Austrian population. Your balance sheet...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10922	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10938	The final sentence: Mr Edlinger! Mr Nürnberger! Its balance sheet of 30 years of SPÖ government is: You made 144 million schillings a day. - Everyone can do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10970	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Sima in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e10994	Mr President. High house! In his speech, Mr Schweitzer spoke about the non-social policy of the Vienna SPÖ and of the fact that it is not possible for small earners to get cheap kindergartens. That's wrong. Mr Schweitzer. I know from my own experience: If you don't deserve much in Vienna, the Kindergartenplatz costs nothing. [[Call the liberals: With a 100 000 S income!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] As you know, I once worked at Global 2000 where you don't make a lot of money. I've never used it anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, if you don't deserve much in Vienna, you won't pay for the Kindergartenplatz. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is not an actual correction!]] There is a social...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11046	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The claim was: unsocial. You said that was not the case. The actual correction is therefore terminated. The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11091	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 84 million Schilling will use this federal government this year and next year for a propaganda campaign. Do you know how much the federal states of Burgenland and Carinthia make available to the social assistance providers each year? – The federal state of Burgenland 17 million Schilling for so-called permanent assistance, the Federal State of Carinthia 42 million. It would be – and this is not cheap polemics – really appropriate to think about whether the 84 million schilling, which is only spent on propaganda, should not be better spent on two federal states in order to make life tolerable to those who have to live by social assistance. That would be a possibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Very social!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I did not select these two federal states by chance, but because both the socially democratically dominated Burgenland and the now freely dominated Carinthia are those states that spend much less on social assistance in terms of their other expenditures than all other federal states, although they are the poorest federal states. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Burgenland again!]] Carinthia employs half of the normal social assistance expenditure spent by other federal states, as well as the Burgenland. That's terrifyingly little. I come back to the subject of social assistance once again, because it is not essential in dealing with this request. When dealing with this request, it can be said – and this is something that the Social Democratic Group has much to do with – that: This government does nothing or very little to relieve people with low incomes and to safeguard against massive energy and transport costs. Unfortunately, the proposal of the Social Democrats is not a suitable basis for doing something. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to explain this to you, because I think that if you make such a request and refer it to the lower third of the income – and this is what you think, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group – you should leave your fingers to increase the amount of money for miles by 50 large standard for each man and every woman in Austria who rides by car. This has nothing to do with social security against energy and transport investments. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll make you a simple bill. I buy a car by 250 000 s and travel – unlike the Secretary of State has predicted – 100 000 kilometres of professional travel per year. 100 kilometres of passenger cars – with seven litres – cause petrol costs of 100 s. – This is enough for medium-class cars. This makes 100 000 p. for 100,000 kilometers of pure petrol cost charging – a clear case. The cost of the car is 250 000 S. Now I take all the costs that the passenger car is still causing me, then I also come at these expensive petrol prices at 400 000 s a year. I now receive 490,000 S. So I can still make very good money for the existing kilometers of money: 90,000 s at 100,000 kilometers. – Granted, the example is very simple and simple, but it shows that the kilometre money in its existing form is a completely obsolete facility. Right! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The point is that – I still give you the right to do so – it may be a problem for people with low income who have to make professional travel. But you suggest a flat-rate increase by 50 grand, and that is certainly not justified. Second example: They suggest a general increase in the flat rate. Ladies and gentlemen! I also have a problem with that, you can discuss it. A request will be presented by us in the context of this debate. But I have a problem with that, since the big shuttle fee is of course related to the car. Only: For example, where does a Billa salesman who has to drive 70 or 80 kilometres find this, but cannot do so with the car, because her companion is too expensive – she cannot afford to drive in any case – a match? Where's the emergency relief officer in a match? – These persons do not at all concern the shuttle fee. Where does the social assistance worker or the social assistance worker at the Pendlerpauschale have a match? [[Abg. Edlinger: They don't work! It's not about that!]] This does not concern them, although they also have to travel across the federal states in Vienna, in order to organize a job in order to imagine themselves. The compensation for these groups in the labour market service has been partially abolished. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Social assistance and shuttle fee do not match!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that the proposal of the Socialist Group, as I am sorry, on these points has not been considered, nor has it referred to the bottom three of the incomes. – It is. I now give you an example because I am particularly angry, and I did not happen to start with social assistance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: The one is social assistance, the other is the shuttle fee! That doesn't fit!]] – Social assistance providers also need a certain mobility. They will admit to these people that they have to move through a federal country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I brought the example of the emergency aid worker, I brought the example of the Billa salesman. They all don't have anything from your pendulum deposit. [[Call the SPÖ: These are social assistance providers!]] I did not talk about the social assistance worker in this context, although a social assistance worker or a worker also has a right to mobility. [[Abg. Edlinger: Yes, but he doesn't need a pendulum fee!]] Let me give you an example: In the urgent proposal of the Socialist Group, it is said – and this would be acceptable – that: "The state's social assistance laws must create equivalent rules at national level and pay out the increased funds." – This refers to the heating aid. That's okay, too. But I'm telling you one thing – and that's what upsets me so much about social-democratic politics, just as it upsets me about the ÖVP policy: In the federal state of Burgenland – and we discuss something about election – social assistance is placed under Regress. That is to say, every Burgenland social assistance worker, every Burgenland social assistance worker must pay back either the social assistance benefit if she has a little income, or the relatives are prompted to pay the social assistance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Don't say no, in Carinthia it's the same, Mrs Mertel! That's terrible, and that's really a bad practice that still exists. That this is the case in a federal state under SPÖ and ÖVP administration, but in which social policy is essentially made by the Social Democrats, is the case, in the Burgenland, where a Social Assistance Act of 2000 – that is to say, it has been made new – once again the Regress, and also to the members, I find it particularly bad. I'll tell you: I would not have been able to do so if I had not been talking to members of citizens of Burgenland social assistance who lived here in Vienna and who had to live on the streets of 13 000 S, 14 000 S, and said to me: It must not be true that the state government of Burgenland demands Regress for our child who lives in Burgenland and is a care case. That's what I'm saying: That must not be true! – But that is reality, ladies and gentlemen. But if you go deeper into the matter and want to help the bottom third – and I take it from you, I want to take it seriously – then the thing has to be thought out. Unfortunately, I cannot see that this is your urgent request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I agree with you that there is the greatest plausibility in this urgent request for me where the heating aid is concerned. Yes, we are considering what we can do to get away from the reference of social assistance to the reference of lower incomes for all persons. But, please, a comment on this also: Let us also take those politicians into account, who in recent years have told the citizens that the cheapest and most ecologically friendly is an oil heating.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11247	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11268	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we had a federal government that would take its promises seriously before the election and put them into practice, then the debate on this urgent request would certainly be a very important event for the commuters in our country. The increase in the fee and the grant of a heating aid are measures which are actually intended to complement and round off the social measures. Mr Schweitzer, I do not know if you are in the house, but you will certainly know what I am saying to you now, namely that social assistance is granted fourteen times in the Burgenland, with the 14th being granted. Reference is considered to be heating aid. [[Abg. Böhacker: Sure!]] It is for a single 5 020 S and for a family with two children 9 500 S. I think that can be seen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As has been said, this would have to be a very positive discussion here in the House, but also in the public, but the current Federal Government and majority in this House have shown how forgetful black and how writty blue can be. One forgets that he wanted to go to the opposition, and the other breaks his word in order because as many as possible want to be a member of the government. In the meantime, three substitutes are already sitting on the government bank. High house! This coalition of forgetful and wordbreakers seems to have been the exception to the workers of Burgenland. They know that many citizens are forced to work in the conurbation centres. [[Abg. Großruck: Not just Burgenländer!]] We have always been the country of the commuters, and we are to a large extent still today. Around 40,000 people travel to Vienna daily. From my countless conversations with counterparts, I know how well you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, worked. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The increase in car taxes on the average double meets our people very hard. Not only does the donor depend on the car, but most of us do, because there are not enough public transport offers. [[Abg. Großruck: Who has been Minister of Transport for decades?]] In addition, the almost double price for the motorway vignette comes. This too is a targeted blow against the commuters. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the representative of the Federal Minister, do not take an active look at how the prices of petrol climb. They refuse to intervene and at least save people the tops of these petrol price orgies. To ensure that no one escapes your meeting safety, you have immediately also shortened the subsidies to the transport associations. This means an increase in bus and train tariffs by more than 10 percent. These measures alone, ladies and gentlemen, cost the commuters from Burgenland a total of more than 250 million Schilling a year – 250 million Schilling, who are missing from the Burgenland families. But that's not enough. You have also doubled the electricity tax. Almost 13 sizes per kilowatt, and that's only 71 million schilling per year for Burgenland households. If I am thinking about the increase in the cost of heating oil, I have to ask you again, Mr State Secretary, the question: Why don't you do anything? Why Make Don't you use your legal options? Overall, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to your best-selling measures, people pay more than 800 million schilling a year in taxes, tax rates and price increases. Today you want to cover this series of breaks, social taxes and taxes for the small families with this request for an increase in the fee and the heating allowance. They distribute alms after you have driven people to the borders of poverty. Where is your Christian-social attitude, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? I believe that you no longer have the right to call yourself Christian-social! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They clear out small incomes' wallets and pretend to be innocent as if they were the only measures. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill for this policy of cruelty will be presented. Today, people know what black and blue means. It is a policy according to the motto: Take it to the little one and give it to the great ones! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, the Burgenlanders will choose their new country day. [[The speaker wears a red-gold adhesive label with the title: "Hans Niessl and the team Burgenland. Full commitment to the country."]] We are convinced that the people of Burgenland will make the right choice. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] They will not opt for those who want to hide their load programme through cosmetic corrections at the shuttle fee and in the heating grant. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition, want to hide your oblivion and words completely shamefully. You will not succeed, for you are the coalition of the verbal and forgetful. On the other hand, we are the movement of the dependable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] The decision in Burgenland will confirm this, and we are right to advertise, in addition to our socially balanced programme of progress and balance with the slogan: Red-gold instead of black-blue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11396	Mr Bruckmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11417	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Let me say a few sentences on the strange request number three of this urgent request, which reads as follows: "The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to intervene in the government to decide on a heating grant...." My colleague, Mr Nürnberger, who has withdrawn into the darkness behind the last bank, has urged me to take two points of view : one more kind: [[Rejoicing]] You remind me of the little prince at Antoine de Saint-Exupéry, who commands the sun to rise, and the much less lovable: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I'd like to ask you where you've spent the last weeks. [[Abg. Nuremberg: Excuse me!]] Certainly not in Austria, but in any Tibetan monastery, where there are neither newspapers nor radio nor television, because this demand is at best a half-abundant bulwark that goes completely empty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Obviously, the ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group do not take their own motion too seriously, because their banks are not very heavily occupied. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (that's to say, Abg. May. Prammer just left the hall) Now the Prammer goes away too!]] I can now recall the Genesis of this heating aid. ==References====External links== In September 2000, the Austrian Seniors' Federation Bureau and at the same time the ÖAAB decided to make exactly this request, namely to invite the Federal Government to grant a heating grant for weaker levels of income. [[Abg. Edler: You are excluded, I have heard!]] The next day, 13th. September 2000, the Pensionist Association has made a word-like request, but without pointing out that it only repeats more or less what was said the day before. The same applies to Mr Gusenbauer, who also raised this claim on a daily basis. ==References== A government decision has already been taken on this issue on September 2000, namely the decision to double subsidies granted by the federal states. I would like to expressly say: I can't imagine that in the old coalition government, such a rapid process might have been feasible. On the same day, on the 19th century. September 2000, the ÖVP Parliament Club in Purbach specifically approved the grant of a heating grant. ==References== In October 2000, the government template was adopted as part of the financial compensation and has been incorporated into the budget accompanying laws in this form, and I can remind you that you did not give your consent to the budget accompanying laws. If you were so much at this one section, you could have asked for a separate vote on it. But it's going to be even more absurd: As previous speakers have already pointed out, the grant of heating aid has actually become state-owned, and as far as these are concerned, almost all the federal states have long been active in Austria. [[Abg. Loos: How does it look in Burgenland?]] Some are already paying the heating grant. It's just two that can't say the same thing. As far as Vienna is concerned, I found nothing other than a press release of 7. November 2000, which reads as follows: "City of Vienna intends 1 000 S as a single payment." And further down it's in the same press release: "Since the city has only the data of the social assistance beneficiaries, we are now waiting for the transmission of data from the long-term unemployed and minimum pensioners living in the state capital by the Social Ministry." - So much for Vienna. As far as the Burgenland is concerned, the Federal Government has so far not heard anything that would have been decided on this point, which would have to be doubled. [[Abg. Loos: Who is in Burgenland Social Reference?]] As a learned statistician, in this case the concept of correlation pushes me up between the party membership of the respective head of state on the one hand and those federal states that have hardly done anything in this regard on the other. In the other seven federal states, heating costs are already on the move. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Loos: The "real" social!]] Mr Nürnberger! Your urgent request has a wrong consignee. Please let him be brought in by your party friends in the municipality of Vienna and in the state of Burgenland! I would also like to add that there has already been an extraordinary amount at community level in this area. The mayor of Grieskirchen has provided me with an information which he has explicitly said is not an exception, but something that is realized in many, in countless communities in Austria, at least in those who have an ÖVP mayor. I only read a few titles of the actions that take place at local level: "Foundation Grieskirchner help Grieskirchner", "Socialmite Action", "Communication Aid", "Social Fuel Action", "Promotion of facilities for the use of alternative energy sources", "Fund for review measures in heating plants." [[Abg. Großruck: And so on and so on!]] High house! This is a clear example of social security at all three levels: at the municipal level, at the national level and at the federal level, because the decided doubling of the heating cost grant at the federal level is only aimed at socially weaker layers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear colleague Nürnberger! To sum up, I would like to say: Your urgent request is not only a semi-trailer shot in the emptiness, but a pipe-creper, but let me close myself like I started: Values "little prince" Rudolf Nürnberger, you don't need to order the sun to rise. It seems to have been much stronger than you want to perceive, even if you have not yet noticed anything about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11584	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11606	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Pepper – is she there?, I can't see her – was really sweet: [[Call the SPÖ:Eyes!]] She turned down here and gave a Burgenish country election speech and said that Red-Gold would be the right thing. What's supposed to be red is known to me. From red – I know – the Burgenland was led into ruin, with a bank liability of 4.9 billion schilling, which the Burgenländer will still have to pay in the person of Mr. Stix, thanks to your policy in Burgenland. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Egghart: This is "reliability"!]] Gold's question is: What does the SPÖ connect with gold? – It is likely that: Mrs Sima has meant, as she knows from her own experience, that income weakness in Vienna does not pay so much for the kindergarten. As a result, it is one of the weaker representatives within the SPÖ. [[Abg. Binder: Unheard!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's the way it is! And today's urgent request – and I say this clearly and clearly to you – is once again a single self-appropriation, brought in by two first-kind privileged knights! Mr Nürnberger, who is his existence not only out of the income as a Member of Parliament, but also a highly paid ÖGB official, has also dared to compare a comparison with the accident pension and a sheet metal damage in a car. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is gold!]] What rough comparisons! If you compare the accident pension with the disability pension, you will come somewhere else! Why have you allowed invalidity pensions to be taxed and accident pensions not? This is a social injustice! Another thing: If you're already comparing a sheet metal damage with people, I have to say: [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you really have so little idea?]] If you have a sheet metal damage on your vehicle, then you do not suffer a damage, but the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because that is what you drive a service car. These are your privileges that you still have and maintain! This is the SPÖ, how she lives and lives! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now let's see what this looks like at the party headquarters on Löwelstraße! [[Abg. Silhavy: Stay by the topic!]] There you pay per square meter 56 S rent and still complain of his karges existence. This is the SPÖ's functional system! Older SPÖ delegates and others will remember: There once was a symbol of the SPÖ with three arrows. First, the arrows have turned down, and now the first arrow is broken away, that was the "consumer". This arrow is broken. The second arrow, the party, has become dilapidated, because of the debt your party has, and the third pillar, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, has failed in recent years to really work in the interests of the Austrian population, the workers. There was the big "silence of the lambs". Someone said today that they had been against the clubman – I don't know which, against the cast farmer or against the Kostelka – but we never heard of it. This did not happen once, with the exception that the builder of the new coalition, Mr Nürnberger, was against an increase in the early retirement age by two years. That was the only message ever made. The result is known: A hard existence on opposition banks is the SPÖ secured in the coming years, but you close your eyes to reality! You wanted a budget recovery, you introduced the pickerl, you halved the pocket money of the home dwellers, and you still made debts about debt. [[Abg. Brix: And you? Did you raise it?]] We need to take action on the basis of a tax reform, which has been implemented but which needs to be financed by the current government. You, Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, wanted to do this with an increase in the oil tax. An increase of at least one schilling per litre of petrol and diesel would have been safe for workers. But there is also the possibility – and this is done every now and then – to provide workers' funding in the countries in addition to the cost of travel for individual workers. And when ÖAMTC and ARBÖ talk about this: They could progress with a good example and lower their membership contributions. This would be an essential contribution and a relief for drivers in this Republic. [[Abg. Riepl: The red light is shining!]] In the end, however, this urgent request by the SPÖ makes it look deep. [[Abg. Silhavy: Oh, you!]] They regret your own state of mind, because you have not implemented all the measures you have written down today during your reign. This is the biggest accusation I'm making to you. One thing I would really expect, and I wanted to give that to Mr Nürnberger and write it to the main book: We do not want to make the Chamber of Workers or the ÖGB mouth dead, we only want to achieve one thing: that the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers are more honest.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11775	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11797	Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, this proposal from the Socialist Group to improve the situation of car commuters and those who are hot with fossil fuels – for that is exactly how one has to differentiate it – is an application that no longer corresponds to the state of the day. It is not because a similar request has already been made, and not because of the fact that a government measure has a certain similarity to that of the applicant, but because this way of trying to solve the commuting problem is, at the end of the day, totally non-future. To this end, one comes when you really analyze the situation of commuters and the need for commuting. The Pendler problem is simply a symptom of a fundamental misdevelopment and orientation in the economic policies of recent years, because large agglomerations were able to pick up much more funding than the region, because what was installed in target 1 funding in Burgenland, for example, was very, very low from job relevance and because it was not sufficiently successful to continue to employ commuters in their home places or to really reduce the huge distance commuting we find in this region. However, if I only seek an increase in the lump sum and leave the situation of public transport in this area as it is, namely, frozen at an enormously poor level or under threat, further lines, for example in the case of the ÖBB, also in regional transport as a whole, because of so-called lack of profitability, then this request for the promotion of car transport, which in turn causes enormous public costs in road construction, causes the cost of accidents and contributes ecologically to the fact that the Austrian climate protection objective – and Minister Molterer has known to pursue these objectives – will not be attainable. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! They deal with the problem only completely isolated for the passenger cars, from my point of view also in a way that has completely negative effects. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to make a request – to the second part of the request that concerns heating costs and the proposals you make here – my colleague Eva Glavischnig will address even more precisely – which looks more closely into the future and does not forget the current situation. This is a motion for a resolution on improving the situation of donors, a fundamental solution to the problem of the donor and innovative, sustainable climate protection-promoting approaches to the issue of space heating. And that's exactly what it's all about! Finally, the past, when the fuel prices were still different, has also led to the fact that nothing has happened in order that the situation for the commuters, for those who have no car and do not have it today, has worsened instead of improving and can never be solved in the long run by a purely car-related charge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This would block processes or speed up spirals that are already running in favour of road construction and the pure use of cars, excluding everyone – and this, please, keep in mind again and again – who does not have his own car at all times. And I'm talking about these people when I talk about commuters.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11887	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, signed and is therefore under negotiation. I call Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e11911	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speakers – especially from the People's Party, Edeltraud Gatterer and Professor Gerhart Bruckmann – have already reported in detail in the matter of your urgent request, namely in the matter of Pendlerpauschale and Kilometergeld, but also in relation to heating aid. In order to stick to the matter and to repeat it all together, I would like to say here: Only those who help quickly help twice! In order to pay for increased fuel costs, the Federal Government has an increase in the large flat rate by 1. In 2001 it was decided, by 10 percent each, and thus by 20 percent in 2001 in total. Only those who help quickly help twice! According to this motto – now a little bit too coming to country-related reality – Mrs. Landeshauptmann Waltraud Klasnic also acted and the Pendler aid already on 17 November. ==References====External links== [[Abg. May. Kogler: No, she has propagated the oil heaters!]] In Styria there is the following aid – Werner Kogler, you do not know, but I will explain it to you –: [[Abg. May. Kogler: I know exactly!]] A one-time payment of up to 4 300 S will be granted to the beneficiaries of the Pendler aid of the State of Styria due to the particularly increased cost of travel in 2000 in addition to the Pendler aid. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They all know that the grant of heating aid falls within the competence of the countries, and the Federal Government has doubled the target grant for space heating to countries: There are now around 600 million schilling available. And again: In Styria, Mrs Landeshuptmann Klasnic immediately traded and provided low-income beneficiaries with aid for heating costs. [[Abg. Oillinger: She has a bad conscience about oil heating!]] Dear oillinger! ==References== October – we are in Vienna today, and there seems to be a lot of nice things here, but it's not up to me, but it's not easy to notice – the Styria has decided to grant a unique heating allowance for households with oil heating at the level of 2 400 S and gas heating at the level of 1,200 S. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You want to distract from the Klasnic!]] I mean, in time. And above all: Whoever helps quickly helps twice. This heating grant will be paid out to the interested parties before Christmas. This is a kind of new government. The same applies to Lower Austria and other federal states with ÖVP heads of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] With ÖVP heads of state, Mrs Colleague! Be happy that you are at home in the Styria! While the SPÖ Members have been considering texts for a urgent request, we have already taken decisions, and I can tell you that: Be sporty, increase your pace! – But we will always be a step faster. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: You need a new orientation! That's your problem! You're going in the wrong direction!]] Mr Nürnberger, I would ask you: Ask the mayor of Vienna, Mr. Häupl, to take care of the population of Vienna and also to decide on a heating subsidy for the very poorer Viennans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Rejoicing at the speaker!]] I am particularly surprised by the statement that the mileage has always been adjusted in the past when the car cost index has increased by more than 10 percentage points since the last km of money change. Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, you will be right if I now note that the official mileage in 1989 was 4 S, that this amount was increased to 4,60 S in August 1994 and 4,90 S in June 1997. I have a 1997 press release, which reads: Savings from the federal government – ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully! – but with the last increase a delay of one year. – What do you say, Mr. Edlinger? Has the Minister of Finance stolen himself from the responsibility at the time? As mentioned earlier, the mileage has been adjusted in the past whenever the index has increased by more than ten percentage points since the last km change. I assure you, too, that I will work to increase the amount of kilometre in excess of the ten percentage points. And you can believe me: We will not wait as long as the previous Minister of Finance, Mr Edlinger, has waited for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Then you have to support the application!]] We take the concerns of the population very seriously, but the Federal Government unfortunately has no influence on the pricing of petrol, diesel and fuel oil prices. There have been massive increases throughout Europe: without any influence from governments, without conscious increases in taxes on fossil energies. I remember press releases of the OMC recently, which proudly stated that a record profit of 4.9 billion schilling was received in the financial year by September 2000. Unfortunately, no revenue for the Minister of Finance! [[Abg. Edlinger: Too stupid!]] It's not stupid, Mr. Federal Minister out of service! [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't say that!]] In any event, I would like to ask you the question as to how you presented this with the increase in the oil tax and the resulting additional costs of 1 920 s for the commuters. And another final question to the Greens: They have always called for a rise in the price of petrol to 25 S and more. [[Abg. Oillinger: (with the appropriate gesture) This has sooo a long beard! An old beard!]] Wouldn't this increase have made the commuters? – I believe that the concerns of the population are to be taken seriously and must be taken seriously. However, I also believe that the Federal Government and the national governments have already taken measures to address the greatest needs to date. Therefore, I note that the urgent request has already been made and therefore nothing has to be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12112	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12133	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Nürnberger! Even if we are obliged to thank you as midwives of this government-new, allow me a few words to what you have recently given of this speaker's seat to the worst. In summary, only one thing can be said: Class struggle deepest variety! But, Mr Nürnberger, we are in principle no longer bothered. Just keep going, because with this policy you have shown here today, you have lost one choice after another since 1986! And if you continue this way, we will be obliged to thank you once again. Or: If you think, Mr Nürnberger, that the tax reform has been decided by the red and black coalition, this is right, formal right, but you must say that you have not had a single tired schilling of funding for this tax reform. [[Abg. Nürnberger: Right!]] At last admit that! In spite of the most difficult financial conditions in the budget for this tax reform in 2000, this new reform government had to provide 30 billion schilling. What you've done was fiscal bullying and no tax reform for the citizens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If, since you've been in the opposition, you've been bringing in all sorts of urgent requests or requests that have always been more than poor and have always turned out to be a political piper or a political waterloo for the SPÖ – this urgent request today, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, is no longer to be surpassed in sight. In addition, you will completely demask yourself with this urgent request. You want to play on the successful course of this government-new with your heating fee allowance, but you are once again too late, you have once again missed the connection. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And another one, ladies and gentlemen: While you are still basking on dubious urgent requests from SPÖ, this new reform government has been acting for a long time. This is the quantum leap, which is the quality improvement: We are acting instead of talking for the citizens and not against the citizens, as you have always done. But I have to address the preamble to this urgent request in connection with the heating aid. That's where you write smoothly: ==References== In December 2000, sales prices for heating oil and natural gas have not fallen by Regulation...", and so on. – Well, that’s what I’m looking at, who has to decide! And what does that mean, "if prices haven't fallen?" – You know very well that if you call ten oil dealers today, you will get ten different prices mentioned. What price do you take? What must be the level of reduction in sales prices? 1 big, 2 big, 10 big, 1 schilling? Does this reduction have to be sustainable or only temporarily? – With this preamble alone, there is a reason for this request to be rejected in full. Interestingly, in the case of heating, you depend on household income. That hurts me directly for the Social Democrats. If we want to go somewhere, for example in the tax field, or to go to this household income, away from the individual taxation, a call from the Social Democrats! Women go back to the stove, it's called the foreign exchange from your point of view. And that's where you want to put on the household income? – Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, this is white double-beddedness! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For a mile's money. – Mr Vergestnich – or was it Mr Nürnberger? – has meant that this does not apply to the economy. – Of course, the mileage for the economy does not apply, but there are the actual costs to be calculated! By the way, everyone in Austria has the right to calculate the actual costs if the official kilometre money is too little. There is an example of how it could be done better. In the last few days, they have repeatedly used Germany as a comparison in the debate on budgetary reorganisation, and they mean that not everything has to be done so quickly. – Look Get in touch with the mileage scheme in Germany! Up to 6 000 kilometers (2.80 S), from 6 001 to 10 000 kilometers [3.70 S], and 2,80 S. On the other hand, the Austrian kilometre money with 4,90 s is truly for real! But because you are always so aging about the load, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you something, even if you don't want to hear it: The tax and tax burden in 1999 was 44.7%. It will fall to 44.4 percent by 2002, thanks to the work of this Federal Government. You have reached the highest tax and tax rate in this Republic with your wrong budgetary policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12205	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. The remaining speaking time of the Greens is 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12226	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Böhacker! [[Abg. Böhacker: I'm all ears!]] I do not want to get too close to you, but I think that this new reform government is kind of an exaggeration. Allow me to tell you that. If you would have wanted to do something future-oriented and trend-setting in this area in any form, it would have had to look completely different. So at the moment, you are still subsidizing certain States, for example OPEC countries, with heating subsidies and other subsidies, into an old energy and transport system. [[Abg. Böhacker: Shall we not give anything? The Greens don't want to give anything! Social cold!]] A real new reform government would have planned at least until 2005 or 2010 to reduce this dependence a little in the medium term and finally put it on other energy sources! That would be reform policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it's very annoyed. However, I am not quite happy with the urgent request of social democracy. [[The water glass standing on the speaker's desk falls down.]] - Hoppala! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are stunning!]] That is precisely this aspect, precisely because we now have the climate conference in The Hague behind us, where we are exactly... – I know, thank you, Mr Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are evocative, Mrs. Colleague!]] It is really unfortunate that one does not call the basic evil by name, namely the finiteity of fossil resources, which ultimately creates dependence and provokes the monopoly situation. You don't want to do that. We know that by 2010 at the latest, we will have reached the maximum level of oil production, and from this point on, the price will continue to rise. I've said this before. What does this mean for a reform-oriented federal government or for reform-oriented government parties? How will this dependence be reduced? – In this context, I am surprised that the alternative that exists in Austria in particular, namely biomass promotion, is neglected in a truly irresponsible form. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm expecting you a little bit now. Current heating cost comparison: Take a house with 150 square meters of living space, 20 kilowatt hours of utility energy for space heating and compare the following energy sources: Biomass, natural gas and heating oil extra light. – The worst way to cut fuel oil extra easily, this family costs 17 500 S a year, the heating with natural gas still costs 14 000 S, and biomass is already the cheapest, because it costs 10 000 S. Therefore, I do not understand why there are still no conversion incentives for biomass in individual federal states, including the Federal Republic of Germany, but for oil and oil boilers. We have seen this in Styria, as even Mrs. Klasnic has advertised for it, and I do not understand that from the logic. Short to the SPÖ: It is also very bad in the countries of Vienna and Burgenland. There is no biomass promotion at all, and there are many areas of use where you can do that. That would be a real measure to reduce dependence! I have the quota here in the comparison of the federal states; we can also take a short look at that. Burgenland: 2 per cent of wood heating, Vienna: 0 per cent of wood heating, although there are equally scattered settlements and possibilities of use in Vienna. The reason for this – I hope that it will be possible to overcome it at some point – is apparently that biomass wood heating smells after agriculture, and agriculture smells like ÖVP, so it is not recognized as an opportunity in SPÖ-dominated federal states. One forgives me for this cynicism, but it seems to be so, especially in Burgenland and Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Our request is now aimed not to stand half way and grant a heating grant, but also to grant a conversion aid. I would also like to ask you, especially the colleagues from the ÖVP, which is against promoting the transition to biomass in heating plants. In the medium term, social issues can also be solved by reducing dependence on the one hand and promoting domestic renewable energy sources on the other. It would also have a favourable impact on climate protection, on regional value added and so on; I am now not saying everything anymore. But that would have been the second half of this step, apart from the question of social security, which Mr Öllinger has already mentioned. I would like to ask you honestly and seriously why such a proposal cannot be approached: the comprehensive promotion of a transition in space heating, namely the conversion of oil to biomass heating; mainly pellet heating, which is no longer different from the comfort of oil heating. This question is mainly addressed to the rear lines in the EIA, to the Section for Agriculture: the question of whether you cannot approach it in any way. - Good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude: The importance of social policy measures is entirely correct in view of the very dramatic price situation. We have not condemned the heating aid in this sense in principle, but we have said that this is something in which consumers cannot be blamed for the fact that in years of energy policy, in these ten or 15 years since it is foreseeable, there have been wrong choices. This has been a failure of politics, and not of man. Therefore: A heating allowance is good, but I still ask you to go the second part of the way. This is also addressed to the SPÖ's address, in which the request does not, namely, this general reduction in the dependence on a product traded in a monopolisted market, which is environmentally and environmentally harmful and which raises social issues. This should not be further subsidized, but one should simply take up the changeover, the exit from it. In the last 15 years, you've missed this. There were always ÖVP Energy Ministers at this time, as far as I can remember. I hope that this oil shock – which is not really a shock; one has been aware of this since the 1970s – is at last the opportunity to take a completely different and new path in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12342	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12364	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Due to international development in recent months, a worldwide increase in rosil travel has resulted, and this has not remained without consequences for Austria. The price increase for finished products, fuels and heating oils has had a corresponding effect. The Socialist Group, Mr Nürnberger and Mrs Pfeffer, have felt obliged to make a urgent request and propose relief measures for donors, pensioners and lower income groups. I am here full of you and have to tell you that a general increase in the rate of penalty by one third, as you ask, would also be very right for me. But everything is simply not possible, because after 30 years of socialist financial policy and socialist social policy, a debt mountain has accumulated, with which this is simply no longer possible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They demand an increase in the amount of kilometre by 50 sizes. We are currently in Austria at 4,90 S. I wonder where social security remains with these two components, with the general increase in the penalty rate and with the increase in the amount of kilometre, because the official kilometre money benefits all managers, and these are known to drive more kilometers and earn much more than the so-called small commuters. This is extremely unfair, is not socially correct, but if the budget allows it, then I am very sure that there will also be an increase there. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] You may have missed the increase in the large flat rate. There has already been an increase of just over 10 percent. This is precisely the ones who do not have public transport available when they visit their jobs. For two to 20 kilometers it was increased from 2 880 S to 3 240 S, for 20 to 40 kilometers from 11 520 S to 12 960 S, and so it goes on: for 40 to 60 kilometers from 20 160 S to 22 320 S and for over 60 kilometers from 28 800 S to 31 680 S. I find this very moderate, goal-leading and also convenient. I can only say one thing to the heating allowance of 500 S per month during the heating period for household income below 12 000 S: It is true that the federal government is very likely to grant a heating grant. In principle, the heating cost grant is a country matter, and in those federal states in which a heating grant is granted, the federal government doubles this heating cost grant. With amazement, however, I note that in those two federal states, which are dominated by the Social Democrats, namely in Vienna and Burgenland, there is no country solution to this question in view. Why did you sleep that? – If there were a national grant there, the federal government would double this amount there too. But that's how it's done. I emphasize: This is a failure of the respective national governments! Again, back to the motor insurance tax. You have specified the increase in your application: for an average passenger car 1 300 S. That's all right, that's it. I'll give you the right. I was not quite satisfied with this increase either. The increase in the fee for the motorway vignette from 550 S to 1 000 S does not fit me quite. But I have to tell you one thing: This is much more moderate than the one you have planned with the increase in mineral oil tax, because this would make up 1 920 S, and that is exactly 620 S more than the current increase. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What you're doing is extremely unsocial. I feel it is a deception of the so-called small workers, the donor in Austria, it is disgraceful that you bring them so behind the light, also with your broadcasts from the trade union federation and the workers' chamber.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12433	The next speaker was Mr Edlinger. The clock is set to 9 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12476	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, already a bit far-reaching if someone in the interpretation of the urgent request that we have tabled says that he has actually been done because, on the basis of the measures of the wise Federal Government, all the measures required and necessary in this request would anyway be put in place. In fact, such an interpretation shows that it was not possible to start with you only in a way that you thought to be doing, which would have to vote quite thoughtfully if many – not only from the opposition – again and again; I had the opportunity, yesterday, to do so with quotes from newspaper commentators – to point out that this government, under the guise of social security, has been taking the largest redistribution step for 30 years. I think you have to say that openly. If the Minister of Finance says, for example, that the aim of the zero deficit itself is to take a form of getting into the trickle of budgetary policy, then I think it is very strong that, in order to satisfy this argument of the Federal Government, the social weaknesses must first and foremost be kept. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Again and again, the parties of the government explain that we are actually emptinessing our argument, because the wise decisions of this Federal Government are supposed to have the lowest income-third in 2000 more than in 1999. – Well, this is not formally wrong, but on the other hand, I would ask you to consider what would have been done if this Federal Government had not launched a redistribution programme, but if it had carried out a socially balanced consolidation, as we have, for example, expressed this in our alternative proposal. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Then we would have had more debts!]] In the tax field, we would have put in place measures where taxes in other European countries are higher: for example, the founders and similar owners, which would have been less involved in the social fabric of this country. That it does not do so, I make this Federal Government a massive accusation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As regards tax reform and family reform, you always say they would not have been financed. They couldn't be because there was no budget 2000 at that time! But, of course, the former Federal Government would have done the same for its financing. But the decisive thing is that the tax reform and the family reform of the year 2000, set by the previous federal government, have taken into account the lower incomes in particular, but that is partly what you have – and to a large extent! – returned. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In addition: Aren't you ashamed? I must be very surprised when Mr. Dr. Bruckmann turns out to be a pensioner and explains that, in view of a 3% growth and an inflation rate of almost 2.5 percent, a pension adjustment of only 0.8 percent is taking place! This is the biggest pension robbery in the history of this country, ladies and gentlemen! You have to say that in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you criticize other federal states here, I must tell you: They seem to have no idea, Mr Schweitzer, because in Vienna, for example, a third of the parents don't pay for the kindergarten at all, and a third pays socially high up to 2,500 p.m. That is what parents who have over 28 000 S of net income pay, and I think this is socially justified. That's why your accusation went completely empty. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Further: I do not know how many federal states actually pay 861 s per month for heating aid for all cash benefit recipients under the Vienna Social Aid Act. 6 027 S in heating aid the socially weak in Vienna get, and there you can stop already if you see other federal states compared to that. I think that the cost pressure and social scarcity are putting on this federal government, and it would be their damn duty to help the socially weak accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the Greens are, as I think, extremely interesting, which is actually happening under the title of social security; but I mean it now in the positive sense of the word, and not so, as you think from the government parties, namely, to meet the socially weak, but we mean to help the socially weak. It may already be that the alternative energy source area would be something to sit down in and talk about. But, Mrs Glavischnig: The heating costs and the travel costs are now getting into the immeasurable! You yourself said you would have to think about a medium-term position. To do this, you have us as a partner. But what we want is that in the very near future, now and now, and here, those who are ultimately heavily burdened by the increase in heating costs, by increasing energy costs and fuel costs – that is, people who need the car professionally – receive a balance that makes it possible for them to continue living as before. The government has cut to a special extent in this area, by increasing motor insurance tax by 51 percent, by 81 percent for the motorway vignette, and by 106 percent for energy. All of this is a lot of increases in view of which you really have to think about alternative sources of energy. Mrs Gatterer! I'd like to grab the ball if you always thought I'd raised the mineral oil tax. - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. You quoted from a pink paper. This is the paper that has been discussed between SPÖ and ÖVP, and I would like to tell you in all clarity – if he does not suffer from memory gaps, then Mr Molterer will confirm it to you – that it was you who wanted to raise the engine-related insurance tax. I've always said that this is wrong with traffic policy. I have always expressed the opinion that we should gradually raise the MEST in the same way as our most important partner, namely Germany, but under a completely different price structure that existed a year ago. I still consider the motor insurance tax to be a measure which is counterproductive of transport policy and which is extremely burdened by people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because he has to pay a lot more with the heavy car!]] You will certainly – I am convinced – reject our request because the realization of it will disturb you on your way. Their actions, under the title "social security", are aimed at the radical reduction of the social state. They protect the rich – your tax structure in this area is 25 percent below the EU average – and you beat the poor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If there are protests and then you say that the union is overcoming its positions, I would like to write you something in the main book, Dr. stupid, and you ask: What does your chief tradesman Neugebauer say – to read today in the "Small Newspaper": This government is getting involved in a situation that threatens to escalate. – That’s what your employee representative says, and I don’t have much to add – except that your policy in many homes in Austria will be very cold!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12581	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12602	Mr President. Mr Edlinger! I believe that Mr Oellinger has precisely explained why this proposal is not entirely up to date, from a social point of view, from an economic point of view, but also from an ecological point of view. However, this should not encourage the ÖVP to send down speakers here who have nothing to do but pay homage for five minutes, so long that Mr Klubobmann Khol himself has become too much. The poor colleague Zweytick then had to wear a headwear over him. Here, to spread honours about that country's chief who... – You can correct that quietly, I have seen what has been played. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (ironic) I have to correct that right now!]] In a magazine in which lobbyists propagate oil heating – such editors have found her there! – let a comment be made and advertised with her name as head of state for connection of oil heating! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] [[Call for the call.]] How long has it been? - That's not even a year ago. This kind – apart from the fact that it is not the business of a head of state or of a head of state to operate product advertising; I consider that to be very worrying – is exactly the dual nature of the ÖVP that is being carried here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the case of biomass promotions in the near-heat area and in the individual heating systems, a little bit is done to achieve the alibi effect; no more. However, during oil heating promotion, Mrs Landeshuptmann turns up and adopts guest comments in lobbyist newspapers. – This is the policy you have to represent! We have already been pointing out today that the ÖVP, as regards the term "eco-social market economy", has long resigned, and so to speak, neither the social nor the ecological – that is not at all! – wanted to put before the term "market economy". Mr Bartenstein, who is likely to come back soon, is still to us in this area. This too is a small but good and striking example of the attitude of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12667	Mr Spindelegger was the next speaker to speak. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12688	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Now we can sum up after over two hours of discussion. The SPÖ has today submitted a urgent request, which has been crushed in substance and does not even receive the consent of the Greens. – Ladies and gentlemen! A "mature performance" of social democracy in this House! Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ has once again shown impressively that it is on a certain path: on the way to becoming a left-wing populist party, which is not about responsibility in any way, but which has only one subject, and that is class struggle. [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Sociology"!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "Sociology!"]] Ladies and gentlemen, this too is a "mature achievement" for a party with such a great tradition! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen: Comrade Nürnberger defended the chain, the chain, which was built on the 5th century. ==References====External links== – Ladies and gentlemen, you can put yourself in chains whenever you want, we will not prevent you from doing so, but if you try to view the Austrian Trade Union Confederation as an extra-party association to represent workers’ interests as your preparatory organization, then it will escalate in a way that is not good, and you will bear the responsibility if many leave this ÖGB. Let me tell you again: Remember how you deal with this ÖGB today by viewing it as your precursor organization! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖGB, represent here as a joint decision with the FCG, then I only say one thing: [[The speaker holds a leaflet that bears the title: "People's chain – don't let that please you!"]] That's wrong! For example: The government takes away your money every day, the government gives your money to the rich, the government leaves you in the rain! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Conscious untruths!]] This has never been discussed with our group, and it would never have agreed to do so. This is a false claim you made yesterday! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] That is why I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, once again: Leave the ÖGB out of your party policy game!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12797	The next speaker was Mr Nuremberger. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12819	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I know, Mr Spindelegger, that you have a bit of a problem, but I assure you... – I will tell you what the ÖGB... [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Further ongoing calls.]] I have to admit that we Social Democrats have been far too preoccupied with the criticism of your government's policy. You don't want to see what your own top men say. – For example, it says in the media: Great concern at the basis of whether measures are socially fair. - That's the ÖAAB. Or: ÖAAB and AK Group have bad style in government. Dirnberger criticises ice-cold driving over the affected at the protest meeting. Do you know what I'd never do? – I would never blame or criticize a person’s faith. That would never happen to me because I have the highest respect for it. If a man goes pilgrimages, then he should go pilgrimages, I will always accept that. Do you know what Mr Dinkhauser, ÖAAB President, said about the pilgrimage of your Federal Chancellor? – In an article it says: In the direction of ÖVP, Dinkhauser complained that only pilgrimages to Mariazell were not enough. - Quote. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We would never allow ourselves to attack a person's faith. Or, another quote: "ÖAAB/FCG! Chamber fractions from Vienna, Lower Austria and Tyrol criticize government savings policy!" Now on the accident benefits: Mr Tancsits, Mr Fassleven, Mr Spindelegger, you seem to have forgotten it! Were you not at your conference where there was a joint resolution on accident pensions? I have only represented your position here because you cannot prevail in your own government! In this resolution, which you have unanimously decided, it says: The benefits of accident insurance are not social benefits, but a pain benefit for accident workers. AUV payments relieve companies of further damages which workers would otherwise have to impose laboriously. – It then goes further, for example, on what this is a bad political style in your own government. Maybe you'll talk to your own top functionaries once. But don't worry about the ÖGB!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12866	Mr Dr. Khol, next speaker, has been spoken. Time left: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e12888	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Nürnberger! [[Abg. Nürnberger: Get rid of your Taferl!]] At the end of your speech, you called the word "style" and I remember your first speech very well. Mr Nürnberger! I too am concerned about the style. [[Abg. Edlinger: Right!]] - Right, yes! No one in this house wants to make the Austrian Trade Union Federation or the Chamber of Workers mouth dead. But that's what you've put under us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the contrary! A functioning social partnership requires strong stakeholders, strong economic representatives, strong farmers' representatives and strong workers' representatives. That is why I am also a trade union member. But to go to demonstrations to which the "people's voice" calls, to which the "TATblatt" calls and to which the union has distributed such posters on its last day of action, I can tell you: [[the speaker holds a poster of the ÖGB, on which on the right side German Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Dr. Riess-Passer are depicted in black coats with a sense in hand; further on the left you can read keywords such as "Capitalism" and "Globalization"]] At the expense of my contribution in June, the Trade Union Confederation has carried out such tasteless posters! [[Abg. Murauer: We have to pay that!]] I'll tell you: Today in the morning, in another matter, very many speakers have spoken here and have distanced themselves. I am afraid of the union union, which carries out such posters and which does not take corrective action to demonstrate with those who are violently prepared to express themselves in the "TATblatt". [[Abg. Silhavy:... voted against!]] [[Abg. Murauer: (in the direction of Abg. Silhavy) Have you not listened, Mrs. Colleague?]] His relationship to the "TATblatt" is already Mr. One of them didn't get well at the time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13031	Mr Vergestnitsch spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. I don't need you at § 58 para. 2 GOG. Please start by playing the facts to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13055	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Spindelegger claimed that there are no joint decisions on demonstration and also on this text. [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Haigermoser: Remove from this poster!]] I'll put it right: ==References== In November, the Federal Board of Directors, with the votes of all political groups, took the measures for the 5th. It was decided on 1 December. A week later in an action group also has a representative... – Let me talk out! [[Abg. Achatz: Distance yourself from this poster!]] One by one. I should like to make it clear in the sense of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can quietly distance yourself!]] – A week later, the representative of the trade union public service, and this is not a party representative, took part in the meeting. The representative of the Public Service Union, who by chance also has the majority in the EIA, also took part in another meeting. I can inform you that on 1 January. There will be another meeting on December at which these people will also participate. [[Call the ÖVP:Factual correction!]] Second point: Mr Khol, if you are already quoting, then quote correctly. I took this photo montage today in the "Small Newspaper" to ask in the editor where it came from. First of all, it's not a poster, and second, it's from a photo agency whose seat couldn't be communicated to me because you don't know where it was at all. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's where you clean up! You can't do that!]] That's just for clarification.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13147	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You could at least have distanced yourself!]] We now come to the vote on the self-employed motion 331/A (E) by Mr Nürnberger and Mr Comrades on the increase in the rate of commuting, kilometres of money and the disbursement of a single national heating aid. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:...! That's great! He doesn't remember!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenberger and others on improving the situation of women commuters. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is that the 30-S-Benzin price application?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13226	I will resume the debate on the IX Consultative Group. The next speaker was Mr Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13250	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! We will return to today's budget day's economy. I would like to deal with technology policy in a number of ways, which is now again the subject. I got the first problem, after this federal government was formed, when, contrary to all the expectations of all practitioners, this federal government could not achieve the development of uniform competences or competence in the Federal Government. Two ministries were responsible in the field of technology policy during the last legislative period. Unfortunately, another fragmentation of the competences has taken place. I also see for the next few years these difficulties, which include financing and work programmes in this area. Mrs Forstinger referred to my question that the Technology Policy Council would anyway be responsible for coordination and strategic development. But I think that this consultative body cannot be a substitute for technology policy. I would therefore like to ask you: How do you imagine that the efficiency of these departments in your ministry and in the Ministry of colleague Forstinger can be increased in the future without these traditional competitive situations? Second question: While 10 billion schillings are originally available for these activities over the next three years, it is now only seven more. The programme, which Mrs Forstinger has now presented to the Federal Minister for Finance, includes 8 billion Schilling, which she intends to budget for the next three years for technology policy with concrete measures and projects. I ask you: How much will you and your technology policy department get from this cake in the next few years, if there is already a difference from a billion schilling? We know that the Austrian research rate is in total below the European average. A special feature is that public research expenditure is above average and operational activities in the R&D area are rather small and under-average in international comparison. This year, too, the research rate, as we hear, is most likely declining, which would not be illogical because expenditure is lower in this year than last year. My question to you, Mr Federal Minister, on this matter is: What to Remember In your field, will you contribute to the fact that in the next few years, the R&D quota in Austria can actually reach where you want to get it as a government – but it was also decided in Parliament – up to 2.5 percent in the next six years? I have one last question in this regard. The amount of funding for research activities was increased in 1999 from 12 per cent to 25 per cent. I would also have liked to know how this has had an effect on developments in industrial research. Last but not least, the Greencard for IT experts, which should come to us from developing countries, is being discussed very intensively again and again. I believe there are a lot of technology experts we are looking for in the neighbouring reform countries. I believe that it would also be good if the Austrian economy were to become more involved in these countries than before. That is to say, I would really recommend that measures be taken in this area so that Austrian companies can go more closely to these regions and contribute to the construction and participation in the construction of these countries. Of course, the IT sector would be particularly suitable. My question to It reads: Are you thinking of measures in this direction? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13311	The next speaker was Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13332	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am still a little under the impression of Mr Finanzminister's speech, except for Edlinger's service, which he held today in the debate on the urgent request, because it has become very clear that a very undifferentiated strategy on the part of SPÖ is also being debated in this overall budget debate. It's clear, Minister Extra Service Edlinger: You and your party – possibly also together with us – have left this financial situation behind, so that it is necessary for a comprehensive reorganisation. What to do But now, Mr Edlinger? – They are not only ignorant, but even dispute the need for a renovation. You don't want to be involved in a renovation, you don't want to make any really feasible proposals – let alone that you're offering any alternatives. On the other hand, you misrepresent the results of the SPÖ – but now you are holding a demonstration, which will only show you that you have brought nothing together in content. – This is not a fair opposition policy, Mr. Minister out of service Edlinger! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, we only need to look at other countries that have already taken the path of budgetary recovery. There are only two components for a finance minister to work with wherever it is necessary to reorganise. One component is to increase revenue, the other component is to reduce expenditure. This had to be done by every country – whether socialist or otherwise – in implementation. But there is also a third way, a third "method", but this is unfortunately the most expensive, namely to say: It is not necessary and not necessary to do so. – First of all, when I read this, I thought that would not be quite true, that is just a press presentation, but no: What you have said about the SPÖ to the media is that you have also put in a resolution and have presented it all here all week long. So they want to be based on Germany, on a country which is at last in comparison with all the countries of Europe. That's your model! You want to leave the SPÖ for four years – and I can only call you the insolvency figures of Germany, which have already been mentioned today, but not completely. In any event, in Austria we have a maximum number of employees, the lowest unemployment rate at all – plus a corresponding improvement in terms of insolvency: In the first half of 2000, we had 3.8% less insolvency! What does this situation look like in Germany, Mr Edlinger? – In Germany, the increase in insolvency is 26 percent! – That’s what you want to take as an example from the SPÖ?- Oh, my God! Furthermore, there has also been a revision of forecast economic growth in Germany. The economic growth in Germany is, please, behind Austria in both this year and next year! I can only tell you about the SPÖ: Here in Austria, we went this way after your "model", please lose our competitiveness. If we went this way, we would be very expensive. In this context, the performance of the economy and the relationship between workers and employers has also been mentioned here today, and what they are doing in this way. – In reality, it is like this: A large group of entrepreneurs, of course, want zero new debt, because it is the site that benefits. Slowly, it also speaks about what the entrepreneurs are all contributing to budget recovery. I just want to remind you: The IFB fails, there are changes in provisions, losses and so on. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, however, I am grateful that at least improvements have been made in the area of BÜRGES, so that the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular benefit from this. It would have been better for me if, after the number of insolvencies and the unemployment rate has fallen, what the additional wage costs would have been provided. However, you of the SPÖ mean: Reduce pay side costs, no, that doesn't need to be! But for the economy, ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial point. You, Mrs Kubitschek, did not present this properly, because you always claim that unit labour costs are the decisive thing. – Yes, they are crucial for industry, but for the service sector, for example, it is important to look at the overall situation with regard to additional labour costs. Why? – It is not possible to take such rationalisation steps if, for example, they are a service provider, such as a hairdresser. It is not possible to do so, even if this head of the service is, so to speak, in competition with the black working sector. A reduction in additional labour costs is therefore an urgent necessity for such establishments. 2.8 per cent of our additional labour costs – and on an international average 0.4 per cent of additional labour costs! The competitive disadvantage of the Austrian economy can be estimated at around 70 billion schillings. The right thing is: As far as income taxes are concerned, we are good: thirdly, but thirdly, with regard to total taxes. That's why, my. Ladies and gentlemen: A differentiated procedure would be very necessary. In this context: Under Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger – but also earlier – there is such a direct " habit" of looting the funds. – This should be urgently discontinued by this government. Let us look at FLAF, for example, and see why it was created. [[Abg. Edellinger: unemployment insurance? And what about the insolvency fund?]] - I'll talk about that right now. The FLAF was created because in 1949 the government could no longer pay the food aid. . Now, ladies and gentlemen, FLAF, which is financed purely from employers' contributions, is given one for the other benefit, so to speak, and has to pay for study contributions as well as some other benefits. [[Abg. Edler: Learn History!]] It would be right, as I mean, to change there and say: If family benefits are necessary to this extent – and for this purpose we stand – then please be financed from the total tax revenue – and not, without exception, on the part of the employer! The same applies to the EFZG sector, according to which companies are used exclusively for reimbursement of benefits. – There is also no need to see why this is not covered by the general budget. Ladies and gentlemen! We from the economy are fully in favour of the budget reorganisation programme, which is to all the steps, but we believe that in some areas it is necessary to tighten up. Why? – Because the concern about reducing additional wage costs is important to us, but this is only financial if the situation in the overall budget is such that it will be possible at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13404	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please section 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and to begin to reflect the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13428	Mr President. Mr Mitterlehner claimed that I would reject a budget consolidation. – That’s wrong! Budget consolidation has already begun in 1996. This reduced the budget deficit by 3 percent – most of it under my leadership. [[Abg. Böhacker: 3 percentage points!]] You also said, Mr Mitterlehner, that SPÖ has no alternatives in this direction. – That too is incorrect! In our amendment, we have clearly explained and identified alternatives. Then: There are many alternatives to the social barrage of this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13464	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13485	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Economic policy certainly has many dimensions. Today, several colleagues have set out very different approaches. I would now like to try to draw a small bow, so to speak, and to address once again, Minister Bartenstein, what you have formulated as your framework directives as your objectives. For me, the title of this "bogen" is: sustainable social market economy, something you have clearly underlined here today and to which you, at least verbally, confess. However, I would also like to see concrete action programmes and concrete manifestations, as well as concrete economic policies, on this verbal commitment. As far as a sustainable social market economy is concerned, Mr Minister, I would add to it: ecologically sustainable social market economy. Of course: The word "sustainability" would already include that, but in order to remove it to emphasize it again, I would like to say: "Sustainability" means implicit ecology – and "ecology" means implicit control instruments. Not only do we have to repeat this again and again, but we also have to do it in part; my colleague Glavischnig has already made the comments on this, so that I can only continue to underline the three times and give you – as you, Minister Bartenstein, come out of the Ministry of the Environment – once again an urgent response to your "travel", on the journey into the second year of your existence as Minister of Economics. – In the first year you didn’t notice anything about it! A key aspect of this sustainable social market economy is that the framework within which the economy is operating is clearly defined. My colleague, Mr Kogler, pointed out: It is once to be clearly defined what the key tasks of the state are and where the state has to provide optimal location framework conditions. The key tasks are the establishment of infrastructure measures, the provision of training as well as the provision of services. The framework conditions for economic development are certainly training factors, as well as the issues of infrastructure, the questions of regulation and the question - I think a colleague has already mentioned this today - regarding cartel situation in Austria. In this respect, you need action! They should at last ensure proper antitrust rules, especially in the interests of consumers, because the EU has already put its finger in our antitrust wound. In this respect, you have taken over a relatively difficult heritage from your predecessor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Economic conditions also for consumers are in concrete terms also the closing times. I haven't heard much about that today. The problem of closing times has a social dimension and a market dimension, and precisely on this question they overlap, are partly in competition, in opposition to each other. I clearly recognize the social aspect, as it is not to be seen that even at midnight there are salesmen at the cash desks, just because some person just wants to go shopping at midnight. With this attitude, I believe that I am not involved with many small and medium-sized businessmen who, due to their personal situation, do not carry such closing times as you want them – liberalisation patterns that are partly similar to the German ones. It is important to set clear priorities and not to liberalize them without frontiers, otherwise you will not meet your own demand for a sustainable social market economy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! They have also taken the word "human capital" into their mouths. This human capital has different dimensions. It once includes the training aspect – the training dimension in both school and vocational. In this respect, I believe that the dual training system in Austria is further complementary and reinforced. There are starting points for a reform. In Denmark, models are in work and already in implementation, which could help us in Austria to find the optimal variant for apprenticeship training. At present, there are various difficulties. We see this clearly also in the various federal states, for example in Upper Austria. Human capital also includes the aspect of research and technology. I do not need to repeat what many of my previous speakers have already said. In my opinion, however, this human capital should focus on human beings. The essential thing is that I also have human working and economic conditions. I believe that with your shear – on the one hand, economics, on the other hand work – you often run the risk of not getting the human rail properly or demanding the human rail, namely human conditions for work, in the case of competition from a globalized economy to the fullest extent. They would have the opportunity, above all at EU level, to present significant signs of this. We need to take initiatives in this regard. You, as Minister of Economic Affairs, should also work for uniform social standards within the EU. Then you are credible to me, both as an economic and as a Minister of Labour. Social standards help the economy, but also help workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the end of the day, perhaps a few comments on the often quoted additional wage costs. The fact is that both economic and budgetary aspects overlap. There is a recipe for this, which I can only repeat, namely the eco-social tax reform! This helps you to serve the economy, so you serve the people, and by doing so you can give something to the budget. They must, as it were, finally re-establish their hands so that these aspects are more and more implemented. To conclude: In the eco-social tax reform, we have not dealt with the area of housing development. This is an extra chapter in which both human and economic can meet. Your colleague, Mr Grasser, has now completely left housing to the countries. But you, as Minister of Economic Affairs, should be interested in the fact that, as a result, orders in the sense of old house renovations, in the sense of thermal insulation, will benefit the economy in the sense of energy efficiency! The commitments of the countries to become active in this area, particularly in terms of climate protection, should therefore be called for. In your place, I would also have placed a latte on the countries defined in millions of amounts, a latte to be reached by each federal country, a latte whose shape and height will not be left to every federal state, but a general rule. In this respect, you have unfortunately failed, in the sense of the economy, which could secure jobs in the construction industry and, above all, manage incomes and orders. That would have been a chance. I hope you'll get it – at least in the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13572	As the next speaker, Mrs Schottel-Delacher is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13594	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! We have heard again and again today, the economy does not contribute to budget recovery. But all of us sitting here know exactly that this does not correspond to the acts. The economy is at least contributing around 18 billion schilling to this budget recovery, for it has realized that it is necessary to reorganise the budget first before further important, new steps can be taken. The economy insists that such steps will actually follow, as the economic and labour policy of this government is a fundamentally new one. It does not want to build walls around our country, but to use globalisation for us and our country. It does not want to know everything in detail, but by deregulation of the economy, it allows market access to areas where competition is necessary and possible. It does not want any unnecessary restrictions on the economy through innumerable authorisation procedures and excessive bureaucracy, but rather works on a targeted reduction of bureaucracy and pleads for fewer levels of administration. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thanks to this desire for reform, I now also see the possibility of thinking about a new world of work. We must stop detonating people all the time and agree on their independence. Whether employee participation model, flexible working hours, new social order or other important topics – it is crucial that the bureaucracy adapts to the dynamics of the economy! This, in turn, is only if obsolete structures are repealed or existing laws are reduced to a reasonable and just measure. The fact that new ideas can also be successful is shown by the example of Australia. There, both the labour market and labour management were fundamentally changed. Since then, employment has grown rapidly. Australia has assumed that a central wage-finding system is no longer contemporary, and has enabled individual contracts as an alternative to collectively negotiated contracts. This created more flexibility in the enterprises, which in turn could lead to productivity gains. These productivity gains, in turn, created scope for wage increases while maintaining a safety network. Costs of pay that can become jobskillers are unknown in Australia. Ladies and gentlemen! Legal protection of business agreements linked to indispensable framework conditions must be an objective in the new world of work. Maximum working time, calculation periods, life-time working time, changes in salary pyramids, mobile working time instead of part-time work and business partnership are some of those topics that we urgently need in the future to address the dynamics of the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We now have the opportunity to clean up with the countless commands and bans in order to promote more self-reliance and self-determination. In the next few years, we should focus more on less state dirigism and more on market and private initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13654	The next speaker was Mr Oberhaidinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13715	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately – at least the newspapers can be seen – Landeshuptmann Schausberger has now signed and given up his objections. So it can only be a matter of time that the innovative ElWOG will enter into force. [[Abg. Böhacker: Late, but still!]] It's late, but it's not. I'm glad. – Mr Minister, you told me that you will not be junctified by him. I congratulate you, you've been stuck, we're gonna get the ElWOG. It's supposed to be still with 1. In December of this year, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member I very much hope that the remaining time will be enough for the electricity market, as planned, with 1. to open October 2001. I asked the Committee on Budgets where the approach to the expected start-up effort for the electricity market regulator is given. I was informed in writing that this would be provided from re-transmissions. However, in times of a savings budget, I cannot imagine where 50 million schilling can be hidden without further delay. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] I would have liked to know from which approach these 50 million schillings should come. Maybe it's possible to get information about the "like" as well. What is particularly worrying about me lately is that in the Voitsberg-Köflach region, as it is said, 1 000 jobs are currently being fought – in a region in which, since the 1970s, a coal supplier contract has existed, which has actually been regarded as waterproof for both parties. It was clear to all of us during the negotiations on the ElWOG I that due to the declining electricity prices for the ÖDK or, subsequently, for the association in view, it will not be possible to earn the relatively high coal prices. We have therefore, Mr Minister, in § 69 para. 5 under the heading "stranded investments" for the flow of lignite. They were requested in Brussels in an order of 2.8 billion schilling. That's about two years ago, since then there's nothing left to hear about it. I do not know what is being done in Brussels with our request. In Austria, we already raise operating aid from this title, and in the Voitsberg-Köflach region, 1,000 people tremble around their jobs. Something's wrong! Perhaps it's also because your predecessor, as I know, didn't have much joy with "stranded investments". Minister Farnleitner certainly did not put excessive pressure on this in Brussels. But I would really ask you to do a few things in Brussels in this context. I think it's really high time we made a decision on this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the meantime, there have been some changes in Austria. As I know – but rather unofficially – there is an agreement between the union and the ÖIAG: They want to go back from the 2008 deadline to 2004. – Officially, there is no information about this, and unofficially it is muttered. In addition, the combination has included the ÖDK, i.e. the Drau power plants, into which Austrian Hydro Power has been included, and the granting of operating aid to the Austrian Hydro Power address – the ÖDK will no longer be available in the form – seems to me almost excluded. In addition, the caloric power plants have not also been taken in. Voitsberg, St. Andrea and tent path should be sold, possibly shut down. So some measures have been taken which I believe, in my view, to the extent that I correctly interpret the ElWOG, almost rule out the fact that any operating aid can in fact still be granted. My questions to you are: How does Brussels react to the changed circumstances? Is it going to respond positively? If so, who is the beneficiary? If not, what happens to the 1 000 employees in the region in question? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Sophie Bauer comes from this region, she knows the problems there enough. The region is not richly blessed with jobs, so it fights for every job. We should also support them accordingly from here! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Finally, a question to the Mining Authority. Formal, as a section in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it is dissolved, as far as I am properly informed, as well as the mountain captains. Nevertheless, there is still an approach in the budget for staff who is even increasing! In 2000, there was 18.6 million schilling, and in 2001 there will be 19.6 million schilling, which is an increase of one million schilling – although this section and the main mountain teams should not be formally available. In addition, the Mineral Raw Materials Act provides that part of the mountain right is implemented by the district authorities. Did you get rid of it again? Should that not be fulfilled? Is it possible to set up the mountain captains again via a back door? Or why is a personal approach for this staff position, which is no longer likely to exist? I hope that I will get some satisfactory answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13778	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13798	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, too, to make a few fundamental points on the subject of budget, on government debt and on the right time for the important reorganisation of debt. My personal conviction is that we have been waiting too long for the renovation of state finances and that in the past a veil of transparency has been laid before the citizen over the debt burden of the state. It was only Maastricht that brought transparency to the citizen and to the citizen of our country, especially as regards the debt of Austria in Europe. That's where the horror was very great. Austria has the last place in comparison with the budget deficit in Europe, but it is of course much more unsatisfying for Austrian citizens that this deficit means high interest rates and high tax charges for Austrian taxpayers. If the socialist minister out of service Caspar One week ago, I actually said – and I quote from the Stenographical Protocol that I have been excluded – that a state without sovereign debt either invests nothing in its future or demands far too much in the present, then I mean that Mr. Dr. One is either confused or absolute incisor. After all, we are far from having any government debt, but what we are striving for now with the budget measures is that we will no longer get new debt in 2002 in order to avoid increasing the tax debt of already 2,400 billion schilling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's getting much more exciting, because I've also found the source from which Dr. To his wisdom that the state requires too much of its citizens without national debt: He excavated a textbook from 1871, of a certain Lorenz of stone. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: But! Very "current"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Socialist Group does not make up-to-date economics negotiations available, it should not be surprising that after 30 years we are so indebted to social democratic finance ministers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What did this Lord of Stein not fail in 1871, which would be necessary for the assessment of adequate public debt? – Two World Wars, state bankruptcy, industrial revolution, construction of a social system, European unification and, and, But above all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. von Stein probably could not even imagine in his boldest dreams that a small country like Austria is spending 700 billion schilling on social expenditure. And that's exactly the point: Debts for investments that may eventually be expected to return, yes, but current expenditure must be covered by current revenue. I would like to quote Herbert Giersch, Professor of Economic Policy, Visiting Professor at Yale University and President of the Institute of World Economy until 1989. He said: As is out of the question for businesses and citizens, States and local authorities can in principle also be indebted. However, particular concerns do not arise as long as there is the equivalent of debt in investments that are expected. However, to the extent that the debt is used to finance public consumption and to the extent that it is linked to misinvestment, future generations of taxpayers are burdened by balance, more than they benefit. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! These links also recognize the Austrian economy, and this is the reason why the Austrian economy also contributes to the rapid reorganisation of these public debt, to a very significant extent. I spoke with many colleagues, and that was confirmed to me. There is a great deal of acceptance in the ranks of the economy for a rapid reorganisation of public debt. The contribution of the economy is enormous, it has been addressed a few times today: 15 billion schilling from the various tax measures and another 15 billion schilling theoretically would be added to the non-refund from the employer-funded fund contributions. The economy recognises the government's efforts to reduce current expenditure in order to have in the future – and this is the point – more scope for meaningful investment, for example by reducing the additional wage costs in 2003. A word about the eco-social tax reform which Dr Moser has mentioned; unfortunately, it is not in the room at the moment. Mrs. Dr. Moser, eco-social tax reform is certainly an interesting topic, is certainly an exciting task for the future. But believe in me – I say this for a company that is in absolute competition in Europe – such measures, such ideas must be implemented in the European equation. Then they may make sense, and then they are not distorting competition for the Austrian companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, the SPÖ's infallibility on the issue of additional wage reduction and on the issue of public debt and the rehabilitation of public debt, which was manifested in the resolution last week's motion for a resolution. I would like to quote once again Minister A. D. Edlinger from his interview in the "Presse" of May 1999, where he literally said: I believe it would be more important for site security to reduce the additional wage costs. And then there is a motion for a resolution from last week, which clearly states: Absence of the reduction of additional wage costs. – Ladies and gentlemen! Don't, turn away, take back, continue to make debts! These times are over, and I'm glad about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13860	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13881	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I cannot welcome Mr Bartenstein because he is not here. I would have liked to ask him again – and this should have been very important to Mr Bartenstein – how he is keeping up with the unemployment of disabled people, which is still well over 40 percent in Austria. He told me in the committee that there are 27 345 unemployed people in Austria, that it is not at all true that there are only 3 000 who are all people with so-called'medial barriers'. The Secretary of State nods to that effect. That means that the Secretary of State, like Minister Bartenstein, has no idea what the matter is. Of course, these 27 000 people who have been reported unemployed are only disabled people and not people with disabilities, such as mothers who do not have childcare facilities, or women and men who cannot reach their place of work or the place of work, because there is neither a public transport nor their own car. These are those people who are "inhibited from the media", but, Mrs. State Secretary, they are not included in this number of 27 000 disabled people who are listed separately. However, since Minister Bartenstein has been practicing permanent refusal of reality for months and has only "his" 3,000 disabled people in his mind, he does nothing in this direction either. Since the Federal Government, since Minister Bartenstein is also Minister for Labour, he has done absolutely nothing for the employment of disabled people. I just want to read to you what it means to be unemployed as a disabled person. Non-inhibited people have an average unemployment period of 107 days. That is, if they become unemployed, they are at home for 107 days on average before they find a new job again. Disabled people are, on average, 220 days unemployed, and the chance of providing unemployed people is only 35 percent. For people not disabled, the chance to get a job again is 86 percent. This means that in recent months, the number of unemployed people with disabilities has not fallen, but has continued to rise extremely. But the Minister doesn't do anything. The only thing he does is to deduct the funds in the AMS, which were of course very important for mediation, to ensure work assistance for disabled people. These funds are deducted. There is no substitute for these funds, and as for the so-called disability billions, which are repeatedly spoken of, no one knows what they are for, when the money is available and above all who is responsible for these billions. I would just like to take a short look at the history of these billions. Minister Sickl or Minister Chief have said that they are making these billions available. Okay. They have said that they feel responsible for the fact that this billion is actually used for jobs in the first labour market, and this billion remains within its scope. That was the first thing we were announced. The second is that Minister Bartenstein rightly says: I'm the Minister of Labour. If you want me to employ disabled people, I have to get something from this billion, because without this money I can't create new jobs or training opportunities for disabled people. - Okay, that's what you can discuss. And now the "over-over-driving hammer" is coming: Now Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer says: The "advertising billions" belong to me, which is to be managed by the Federal Social Offices, and I am the head of the Federal Social Offices. This means that this billion, which is not yet available, has already been carried in the circle for so long, rotates in the area without making it clear for which projects the money is used for, let alone who is ultimately responsible. Apparently no one is responsible. We will be back here in a year and we will be looking for these "advertising billions" in vain, because it has not created jobs, and then it will be exactly the opposite, then Minister Bartenstein will say: [[Congratulation with the Greens]] I wasn't responsible! Mrs. Riess-Passer will say: Me? No, I don't! And Mr. Head of State – provided all these three still have their posts – will say: [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Yeah, I just gave it to you! That is the reality, so it will look out! If this tactic you are playing here, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, would not be so familiar to us, then I probably would not have had the chance to say what will happen right now, in advance. You've been exaggerating this to us for years. Why do you want to change where you're back in the government? Why? There's no reason for that. Or, Mr Puttinger? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Oh, yes! There's a new coalition!]] Look, there's no one. There is something else to mention in this context: They have sworn by the ÖVP that these "advertising billions" should be used exclusively for the first labour market. This oath, however, has four weeks ago Her social spokesperson, Feurstein, was already broken. He said: Of course, we are creating jobs in protected workshops with these "Millions of the disabled"! – And that this is not the first labour market, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you should have understood that this is a replacement labour market, but not the first labour market. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen! If They are not prepared not only to let these billions of disabled experts, both the "self-determined living" movement and the Austrian umbrella association manage, but also to accept their requirements, namely to go where this money may be used, then in one year we have the situation that this billion is wasted, that people do not have a job, but that you have at most managed to park these unemployed people in any training programmes, with the turning-door effect that they have come in as unemployed and are looking for work again in the labour market next year. The money is too bad for that. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not wish to mention this, it is a pity to take away 1.7 billion people who are disabled by the taxation of accident pensions and then return half to another group of disabled people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is really a very cruel tactic, given that it runs cold over the back.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13948	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e13969	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haidlmayr is Whether to envy her prophetic abilities. At all, this is becoming more and more apparent in this House: In all the measures taken by the government, the opposition believes that they are bad, and they are criticized. All the measures taken by the government to achieve positive results are questioned. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You took away money from the disabled! They're taking away 1.7 billion of these people! Shame!]] Mrs Haidlmayr! I can assure you that all those mentioned, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, Mr Bartenstein and, above all, Mr Main Minister, will ensure that these "advertising billions" benefit these people, even if you do not agree, Mrs Haidlmayr. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I tell you that in all clarity, because you did not care the truth, the only truth in here! [[Abg. Haidlmayr: I didn't care about them, but I have experience, and she's going off!]] You, Mrs Haidlmayr, have had positive experiences with the new government up to now, I suppose. What is currently being done in the field of the disabled could have been done by the Social Democratic Party in the old coalition for a long time. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: No, there are no positive experiences! You also didn't return the pocket money! You're much worse!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Is this a speech by Mr Haidlmayr?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am willing to enter into a dialogue with you, but I have also let you speak out. They can then raise allegations if these measures are not implemented. However, I expect you to give the same praise from this point of view, if this "advertising billions" are implemented in the interests of the employment of disabled people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I would be interested to see how the representatives of the opposition parties feel, especially those who have been represented in this Federal Government for decades, namely those of the SPÖ. Not Gaugg says: The budget reorganisation is a top priority, otherwise Austria will soon be able to register bankruptcy!, but this is what the President of the Chamber of Economic Trustees, Klaus Hübner, says. Not Gaugg says: I almost have a bad conscience. I'm so good here, many in Austria are so bad. – Federal Chancellor i. R. Klima. Highly interesting! For ten years, climate was responsible, initially as Minister of Finance and then as Federal Chancellor, and he laments the state of Austria. Now I'm wondering, Why are many people in this republic bad? - Because you were in the government too long! This is the big bad luck for the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But what you don't have all the prophesies! What have you and your former ministers in this Republic prophesied all about! There were once those sanctions. They've collapsed in themselves. Even Mr. Chirac now comes to a courtesy visit, and if he lasts only two hours, he says: The sanctions are over. I know you're terrible. Your Thursday demonstrations, which are financially supported by you, take place under public exclusion, only to cost the taxpayer a lot of money. ==References== In December, with the help of trade union funds, another major demonstration to draw attention. But in reality, nobody believes you at all. And why not? – You are prophesying, the employment situation will not improve. - We have a good employment situation. You said the universities would be empty because we were introducing tuition fees. – We have a record registration of students in this year. And you said economic development, economic growth is going to decline. – Nothing is true. Our data speak a clearer language than that of the Federal Republic of Germany. That is clear to you once and for all, and you should acknowledge that. [[Abg. Edler: That's what we've been saying for ten years! How long...?]] That's going to be You will hear, Mr Edler, for so long, until you understand. It is not often enough for you to say that you are also one of the ones I have to include in the series of privilege riders. They were not only MPs in this Parliament, they were also working in the Chamber of Workers and Employees in Vienna on the Board of Directors, and then you are still "unemployed employees" at the Austrian Federal Railways. You can't agree that you're doing anything there in the interest of the employees and the company ÖBB. All that remains for you is, as you say so beautifully in Vienna, "matchkern". That's all that remains of your former state-bearing function. I say to you, based on Klaus Hübner as economic loyalty president, that: Austria should have registered bankruptcy soon if it had not been for economic change. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Edler.]] The 2001 budget involves a successful introduction of the renovation of the House of Austria. All the demands you make here again and again could have been implemented for a long time, from the care money valorization and similar to the heating subsidies. Why have you never taken initiatives? And what was there in the run-up to the 2001 budget on horror messages! – Removal of housing, increase in value added tax, removal of family allowances from 18. Year of life – all of these were terrifying news. To none of these The measures announced to you have come, and yet a total saving of 100 billion schillings has been achieved! I have the impression that just the last speakers of SPÖ were those who would be happy with the Diebians, we would not write a zero deficit in 2002. This is all the more incomprehensible to me than the SPÖ in the legendary Burgenlander Landtagswahl, which is already spirited by this house a few times today, so that she wants to bring together a zero budget in Burgenland as early as 2000. – Well, that’s quite a contradiction in itself. The fact is that this budget has been designed with an eye-to-face and a forward-looking approach. Of course, despite the savings, there is a need to keep in mind social security, although, if there are generally savings, many are affected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] And if all those timely... – Ms. Ex-Women's Minister Prammer! [[Abg. May. Prammer: Why have you so often left the hall for such things...?]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: I want an answer!]] Of you, I am a man and many of the women in Austria are most disappointed, because despite years of activity of women ministers there are still differences in the size of 30 percent in salaries. I would therefore not, in your place, speak too loud and too loud in these debates. Where have you been in recent years? What have you implemented in the interests of women? [[Abg. May. Prammer: As an interest as you have, I would never put it into practice!]] Was the only female performance you've done,... [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Prammer and nobler.]] – Please make it clearer! [[Abg. Edler: You didn't get stuck with the president!]] [[New call of the abg. May. Prammer.]] – Wollten You say something or just interrupt? [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You can afford this macho tour! You're a disgusting nugget!]] Mrs Prammer! You talk and talk and talk, and if I ask you what you're saying on a certain point, there's no record. It's as similar as you were when you were a minister: To no specific question an answer! - You've stayed! Mr Edlinger, apologise, Edler – Edler, that's almost like Edlinger – where have the success of the railway trade union been in recent years? [[Abg. Edler: What did you promise?]] Where were you? What did you do? – Unlike you, we have tried very hard to get the four-week period out of the unemployed. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Who introduced it?]] This was an essential part of the 2001 budget negotiations, and it has also found recognition of the social partners, even if you do not agree. Another measure that we have put in place. For ten years you had time to implement the measure in the field of seasonal staff! Ten years of discussion about a seasonal extension employment model – they did not go any further. Even in the equal treatment of workers and employees, for ten years you did not get a millimeter! – These are your failure in politics. Look at today They are jealous of the new government and say: After all, we could have done all of this! And then you come with little things and say it would be terrible if you would now raise the waiting period from 26 to 28 weeks. That is why I must remind you of the year 1996: The government of that time – and thus you from the SPÖ – has increased the period from 20 to 26 weeks. And there it is. Her then Chief Association Director, Leutner, said that the payment of sick leave should be reduced from twelve months to six months in order to get rid of the deficit in the health insurance funds from 3.5 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Petrovic]] – This is your form of economic policy and another proof that you do not understand anything about economic policy. I don't always want to strip your party funds and the "consumer" but now I'm going to get off the Telekom share. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You of the SPÖ have the least reason to complain that the start has not been 100% successful, because you have lost the company financially in recent years so that the start does not work well. In addition, I say that in all clarity: This Telekom share has a future, this company has a chance, but you have to let it work. Of course, buying a stock is not a "lotto six". "Lotto Six" I only know in your series, the SPÖ series. A "Lotto-Sixer" has made Mr. Scholten, he has a well-dominated function outside politics. He had to switch to the control bank because there was an urgent need for a third board director, although only two had been used before. As we know, a tragic death has taken place. A certain Mr. Krammer – who was once the secretary of the Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky – has made a legendary "Lotto six" with the mediation of Telecom Italia to Telekom Austria, and more. – These are "Lotto Sixers" in your series, which were ultimately made at the expense of the people of this Republic. If you think you can shine with past achievements, I can only say: Focus your eyes on the future, especially on the employment of Austrian workers. Flexibility at the workplace is announced. My colleague, Mr Schottel-Delacher, has already pointed out that, with more flexibility, we are of course also getting more international opportunities for employment. With the addition of foreign professionals, as some believe, we will not be able to solve the problems; they will be fooled. One more word: I always hear from the economy – this is almost raised to the dogma –: Reduction of additional labour costs. – The reduction of additional wage costs should not prevent us from maintaining flexibility in our thinking. I can remind you of the following: The reduction in additional wage costs – which the EFZG payments have reached – was a massive demand for the economy. Now the companies have to pay themselves during the illness of the workers, so they are not so enthusiastic anymore. It is therefore not all additional labour costs that make sense, but many are important and forward-looking in order to keep the economy in swing. At the loading opening times: We also have a social and ethical responsibility, which we also have to exercise and implement accordingly in this context. I am convinced that we are also creating a dynamic labour market with the new regulation, because today much mobility is lost by the fact that no discharge is paid in the event of self-announcement. – All these are points that you could have done in recent years. I believe that a solid economic and labour market policy keeps jobs in the long term, secures income and preserves the social peace of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14223	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. I may refer to § 58 para. 2 to draw attention to the submissive. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's useless!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Maybe he can read it through, then he can get it!]] Start playing the text to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14269	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In his speech, Mr Gaugg said that Mr Krammer and Mr Scholten had made a "Lotto six" at the expense of the State and the taxpayer. I'm actually correcting: Neither the Telecom Italia nor the Austrian Control Bank are owned by the Austrian State. Costs incurred by these companies do not meet the Austrian taxpayer, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Gaugg: No one believes that!]] Secondly, They also claimed that the Thursday demonstrations would be financed by SPÖ. Deputies! If I only follow the numbers your party likes to report on our financial situation, I have to say: We can't afford that. This is white nonsense.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14307	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Prammer to speak. . You too, Madam Members, are certainly familiar with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, in his statement, said that the SPÖ had had a ten-year period to eliminate the so-called four-week barrier to temporary service relations and after a consensual termination of service relations. [[Abg. Gaugg: Extending seasonal employment! That's what prevented you from doing!]] I'm actually correcting: Firstly, there was no such barrier, and secondly, the SPÖ has nothing to do with this idea of the FPÖ Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14367	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14389	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think that there must be something more than that every speaker in the legal conservative alliance does nothing but point out what this government must build on and that this is so terrible. I would like to remind you that, when we took over primary responsibility in this Republic in 1970, Austria was in the lower third place in the comparison of prosperity in Europe and that it was in the third place of the states of Europe 30 years later – and that is one of the richest states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be due to a wrong policy, but it must have been a right policy – although one can always discuss details afterwards. I'd like to say something else: The achievement was not achieved by politics alone – there were probably framework conditions – but by the work of the Austrians. I find it embarrassing that this work of the Austrians, which has led to the development of this position in Europe, is so downgraded, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that this debate on the individual budget chapters is, of course, difficult to hold, because it is not only about whether a position of the chapter has now been taught lower or higher, such as in the field of research, which is absolutely positive, or in many areas of the economy, infrastructure, which are really important contributions. But, ladies and gentlemen, one can only conduct this budget discussion if one involves the meta-level, because in reality we have the problem of feeling very clearly what socio-political conception is behind this budget. This government is therefore presenting not only the 2001 budget, but also the social policy concept behind it, which is that the sector of the economy is being taken more into account and the area of the weaker ones is more heavily burdened. Therefore, in order to make this understandable, one needs a kind of crash program, and so, as you do, one needs the illustration that one has to build on a sash pile. And I think this is embarrassing, not to mention where these allegations of mandates, who have worked for 13 years in the government and were ultimately very proud to be able to cooperate, ladies and gentlemen, were very proud of them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'd like to tell you something: Let's talk about debt building. Between 1970 and 1983, about 370 million Schilling debts were built. In the time of the ÖVP-co-government... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: billions!]] billions, of course billions! During the time of the ÖVP government from 1987 to 2000, it was 1,200 billion schilling to say this clearly, the triple! And most of all, it was your resorts that overlaid. Only once to clarify, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know, Minister Bartenstein is certainly not one of the fundamentalists of the market. What surprises me, however, is that politics is now taking place in such a fundamental way in the market and that in the end this ÖVP also contributes to it, this ÖVP, which also has a different heritage so to speak, a heritage that is to be valued, namely the fact that it has always connected the economy with a social responsibility, which is also reflected in Christian-social doctrine. In this respect, there was a consensus, and our past governments have always been concerned – in order to make this clear – that the government's acceptance was evident in the consensus of social policy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is no longer the case, but, quite the contrary, this concept of the common social policy is to be left here in a very massive way and is intended to lead to polarization, to a confrontation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another thing: I am somewhat surprised that one does not realize that if one proceeds according to this neoliberal economic model, there is actually another requirement in Europe, namely the need to develop a European economic model, a "world economic model Europe" with a corresponding economic commitment, but also with a clear social commitment. We must build up this, we need this identity in Europe, and we have this task to deal with. And I am very grateful to everyone who recognizes this division of society and ultimately opposes it. And this program, the They present here, runs to a division of society. Now I would like to make one last comment. Today it was discussed about statements by the President of the Party Fast of the Freemans in Salzburg, and I was already surprised by the behaviour of the ÖVP. But there's something I need to say: I was also surprised by a very different expression – in addition to this neoliberalism, which one brings 1 : 1 into a market fundamentalism, so to speak, namely that a Dr. Khol has also said: The "red crack" hit again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] In another discussion! So it is obvious that this coalition has also changed the language from the liberals to the ÖVP. On the other hand, we must defend ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neudeck.]] No, that was specifically said by Dr. Khol. That's what he literally said, I can remember exactly, otherwise I wouldn't have quoted it. I would like to make one more comment, which seems important to me, because it seems to me to understand so much from the market. If I look at the details of your political and economic actions, I am actually unpleasant, both in terms of the granting of licences and in terms of Telekom privatisation. [[Abg. Neudeck: We don't do it for you either!]] But I am, above all, – and therefore I have also spoken about this chapter – unpleasantly touched by the fact that in Austria we still have no solution on the energy question and, above all, no Austrian solution. If the situation continues this way, we are at risk of two groups forming here, where in reality no group without the other could be so successful that this would be in the full interest of Austria. And for the second – that's very important –: What can not now be enforced in the context of an Austrian solution is taking over candidates for participation, which is not an Austrian solution in our sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is really worrying, ladies and gentlemen, if then precisely those companies, most of which produce "pollutant energy", that is, nuclear energy and others not so clean energy, buy up or buy themselves, produce clean energy, as is the case with the Austrian ETUs, and force themselves to enter through prices. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is why my concrete call to Federal Minister Bartenstein to create an Austrian solution in the interests of the economy, the security of the site and ultimately the security of income in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14515	Mr Graf, Mr President of the Commission, spoke on an actual correction. I would ask you to start playing the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14539	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bauer has here claimed from the speaker's desk that our government policy is based on the fiction that we want to build on the left-wing pile. – That’s wrong! The right thing is that we do not want to build on the sniper pile left by the Social Democrats, but rather we want to clear it away, and that is the fine difference! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14575	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14596	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mag. Kubitschek was the first speaker on this agenda item on the budget for the economy and work area to complain that the interests of rural areas are too broadly anchored in the Government Convention. Mrs Kubitschek is not present now, but I assume that colleagues will tell her: It should note that there are 5 million people living in the communities of less than 20,000 inhabitants in Austria. And it was therefore right to add value to the declaration of government, in particular, in this rural area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has also mentioned agriculture and has immediately restricted rural areas only to agriculture. It has stated that agriculture brings only 1.4% of gross domestic product and asks why agriculture is devoted so much time. However, it must be taken into account that agriculture also provides many services which are not included in the gross domestic product. The German Chancellor Schröder also said in the decision-making of Agenda 2000 in Berlin in April 1999: You in Austria with your Schrebergartenwirtschaft will have no future. Agriculture will also have to accept the need to industrialize. . We disagree here. I believe that the Austrian farmers with this environmentally sound economy will not be the last of yesterday, but the first of tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This also shows the situation that we are currently dealing with – this issue was very emotional yesterday – with the BSE crisis across Europe. It is really no coincidence that Austria has no BSE case yet. But I would also like to point out that there are three workers working in the field of agriculture for each worker. The Economic Research Institute, Professor Schneider, has found that there are 660 000 people employed in Austria in agriculture and agriculture. These are at least 20 percent of all employees in Austria. On our 220 000 farms, around 950 000 people live – not all of them work in agriculture; there are children, there are old people, and there are many people who work as workers somewhere but who live at the farm – and we should also give these people a chance. But I would now like to turn to the important energy question. Today's urgent request has also partly affected the energy question. The German Bundestag has commissioned a study, and this study has shown that around the beginning of 2000 the peak of funding in the non-OPEC countries was exceeded, that the oil still present there will flow more and more scarcely. For OPEC countries, the funding will be increased by around 2004/2005, but from then on, oil production in OPEC countries will also fall by 1 to 2 per cent per year, while worldwide we have an increase in oil consumption of 1.5 per cent per year. That is to say, we will have to rely on it, that the price of crude oil will continue to remain high. In the last two years, he has risen from 10 dollars per barrel to 30 dollars per barrel and in the next few years will hardly be less than 25 dollars, if at all less than 30 dollars. And then we should be on and off for ourselves. There are possibilities to switch to other sources of energy. I've got an exact list here. We have discussed the heating costs very intensively today. An example: A single-family house has heating – starting from about 35 bulkroom meters per year and a price of 250 S – heating costs of about 8 750 S per year. There is also a more modern hacking goods heating, the so-called pellet heating. At 5.4 tonnes of annual consumption – I have assured myself that these quantities can be found – and at a price of approximately 2.30 s, these fuel costs would be about 12 690 s. In the case of heating oil-extra-light, with 2 625 litres - not estimated at 4,000 kilograms per household, as it is deputies Nürnberger has done so – with a price of 8 S, 21,000 S are required. It is seen that even without promotions there should be the courage to change. We have planned 300 million schilling in the budget to convert to environmentally friendly, renewable energy, and it would be possible to cover about 40 percent of the heat demand from renewable energy by 2010 and 4 percent of electricity production – in the ElWOG we have anchored this size – and to generate about 4 percent of the fuel from biomass. I think it's time for us to ask ourselves these energy questions. In the direction of renewable energy, huge opportunities would also be given to Austrian agriculture. We have an annual increase in wood alone of about 30 million solid meters, while the use of 16 to 18 million solid meters. That means we have more than 50 percent more increases than is used. There would be considerable opportunities here, and value added would remain in Austria and would not be passed on to OPEC countries and to the oil multis.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14681	Mr Schwemmlein, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14702	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about the economic chapter, it is also obvious to talk about the leisure and tourism sectors. Given the disaster of Kaprun, I have to say something about this subject. Since I am the only Member from the area concerned, I hope that you will understand if I use the opportunity to thank all the staff from this point of view. They have done a truly admirable performance all these days, and a warm thank you! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the fact is that now those voices are going to be loud, which should actually be one of us across party borders. It writes "NEWS" – I suppose you have already read it – under the heading "Then the Ruin region threatens: The village holds together, but the grief is slowly suppressed by fear of existence. I believe and am actually convinced that the essential – and this is what people expect now, the region rightly expects – is solidarity, and we must not leave it alone with the fear of existence, but we must prove it out of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, what the Salzburger Nachrichten wrote should not happen: "Help for Kaprun: Just empty words?" I quote, "... the symbolism is disillusioning. Not only for Kaprun, but for the whole region. Solidarity seems to be much faster than implemented." That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen: Let's go on to action together! I am therefore submitting the motion for a resolution by Mrs Schwemlein and others on the Kaprun programme to deal with the accident. Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution deals with some of the main points. The first is emergency aid for the victims' families. Of course, I know and all of you know that money has already been provided by the glacier railway, but the fact is that beyond lip recognition, we need a clearer common signal, namely a special fund that the Federal Government should in all cases install in order to help people unbureaucratic and fast. In addition, we also need to take care of the cable car company. The "Salzburger Nachrichten" does not say wrong: "If only the lip confessions remain alone, we are driving this society, which is the largest employer in the municipality of Kaprun, into bankruptcy!" – I don’t think anyone wants this in here. The next essential point is that, of course, we are expected to see a decline in the number of nights spent in the region. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm saying, "Let's go." I am not in favour of talking a situation worse than it is – on the contrary, I am glad that there are signs that the situation is not so dramatic and negative – but the fact is that there are already about 50 unemployed from tourism companies at the moment in Kaprun. Therefore, we also need to take care of the cable car company. I do not want to ask anyone to claim the company to be overburdened, but the essential thing is to make the funds available. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Böhacker! I'll invite you to agree to this over party borders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next point: Replacement of the loss of revenue. We must definitely help businesses to survive. All companies – and this will also be able to confirm Mr Böhacker – have a plan cost bill, all of which expect certain revenue to be able to serve the foreign capital. So if there is a loss of revenue, we should definitely help people. Of course, it is also a question of providing the AMS with the appropriate resources so that possible unemployment can be picked up. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you – and I speak You here consciously across all party borders –: If we set a sign of solidarity, we will help the people of Kaprun and the surrounding region! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 18.5 2
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14786	The motion for a resolution by Mr Schwemlein and Mr Comrades, which has just been presented in his key points, is presented in writing and sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. 4 to reproduce and distribute the Rules of Procedure; the application will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14964	Mrs Rossmann, the next speaker, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e14985	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first to comment on the statements made by Mr Haidlmayr. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They have doubted the "impaired billions". I can tell you that, together with the disability representatives, the social partners, the school authorities, the countries and the entrepreneurs, an integration package with integration assistance is being prepared, especially for young people who are very dear to us and for older people. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: When?]] – You will receive this package in time, and you will still wonder what will be found in it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this respect, too, the government has been preparing a failure over the last decades, and you must already admit that it takes some time to work out failures. But you'll get it in time. I would like to address the statements made by Mr Schwemlein, whom I am in contact with, both as regards the tragic matter in Kaprun and, of course, as regards the dramatic impact on this region. I can tell you that we have been in close contact with the mayor from the beginning – with "we" I mean my State Secretariat, the Section and the "Austrian Advertising" – and that we are working together to develop a package of measures for this region, that we will take into account the wishes of the region and the mayor. There will be a balled advertising campaign for the first time in the months of January and February. I'm saying that because it's for the first time. Usually in this famous "Jänner-Loch" you do not make an advertising campaign, but only in the spring. But we are now doing it specifically at this time, in order to give the latebookers, in particular, the incentive to come to Austria. There will be direct mailing actions, there will be a print campaign in addition, there will be interventions in Austrian and German cinemas and much more. You can then get a detailed listing from me. In total, the "Austrian Advertising" is provided with a special budget of 8.9 million. I think this is a first, really ballistic use of the means. It is very important to me in this context that there is a relief of the local forces that the "Data Group", which has taken over the information that has worked well, is also relieved and gets coaching from the professional side, and that is guaranteed. We are in close contact, and it is really a great concern that this region is in no way abandoned at all at this stage, even by the side of "Austrian Advertising". We also need to care for family members in a further phase. After the first phase of great mourning, it is necessary that further care be taken by our side as well. I would like to refer to the general development of tourism from my point of view. You will ask: What does the State Secretariat do? We've been since 4. In use on February and I would like to give you a small overview of the development of tourism in this year. We have – and this is becoming more and more evident – a very clear structural weakness. These are also multi-layered failures in the last two decades, and they are now becoming increasingly clear. We have set targeted market activities wherever recently invested, where quality has been invested, where targeted offers have been created, bet-independent offers have been created, absolute increases, increases in some cases in a double-digit level. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, where all of this has not happened, declines are taking place, and that is why it will be our task in the near future to take very clear action. The following measures against this structural weakness are planned from our side: First of all, a change of funding. We are working on adapting the promotion directives to cooperation, from the principle of foundry to structural innovation. Networks in business terms, but also in marketing perspective are very important. We have – and this is my concern, I say this again in this House so that everyone really knows – an average utilization of the Austrian holiday hotel industry of only 27 percent. The fact that there is no business account available here is simply logical. That's why everything has to be done under the title "Saison Extension", "Saison Extension" and again "Saison Extension". [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that this social partnership agreement has been reached, in the context of new working time models, also in the direction of seasonal extension. This is an essential step. Another important point will be that we continue to give this importance to the entire area of destination management. We have made a first milestone, we have found for the first time 14 Austrian destinations that are ready to join together, cross-border, partly even cross-state, which together make a targeted marketing that for the first time make a benchmarking in tourism – that is a novum – which also makes the corresponding know-how transfer happen. In other words, in the future you will have the opportunity to strive for professionally coached new target groups, new markets and new destinations. I believe that this is a milestone for everyone involved in tourism policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Swimmling: But too little!]] – It’s a beginning! But in order to keep an eye on all year round tourism, Austria could establish itself as a classic well-in-destination. Throughout Austria, in Styria, in Lower Austria, in Upper Austria, wherever possible, this wellness area would be an opportunity for us to adapt a year-round tourism and to position Austria as the classic well-in destination. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's what we're working on. We can thus respond to the needs of our time, to the pressure of performance. Many from the nearby area should come to Austria, take a short vacation to get fit again, as often as possible in the year. Another milestone has been achieved, and I say that with a little pride: We completed the restructuring of "Austrian Advertising" at the end of the year. We have managed to make modern new statutes out of the statutes of 1954, narrow statutes. In other words, "Austrian advertising" will in future be able to decide quickly in business terms, in the form of much more private economic approaches. Similarly, in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce, we have succeeded in finally implementing our long-standing and firmly anchored demand for "Austrian cottages" abroad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The employees of "Austrian advertising" – just one sentence – are fully motivated to carry out the whole reform process, and the tragic event in Kaprun has also shown that they were ready to work through the whole weekend and to take action. Finally, I can say that the mood for the winter season in tourism is very positive. The World Ski Championship in St. Anton will also contribute to making Austria even more famous. The conditions are good. From this point of view, I would also like to thank all the employees, the self-employed and the self-employed – about 300,000 people – in Austria, for without them, the success story of Austrian tourism would never have been written. And we're working on continuing the success story. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15078	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15099	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the budget for 2001 and the budget accompanying law, the State is reorganised. The state is being made slimmer, bureaucracy is being reduced. A balanced household is certainly not a self-interest, but a starting point for ensuring the quality of life of younger and older generations in Austria, and it allows a fair and fair social balance for the realization of actual social justice. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] Further new debt will be borne exclusively by the next generation. The necessary change in budgetary policy is now being made quite aware. It is important to preserve the work and performance of the building generation, but also to create perspectives for our children and grandchildren. And that's what happens now. Some of the failures of the old Federal Government were to be dealt with. For example, measures had to be taken to provide seasonal workers in Austria with a working time model allowing longer employment or a conversion period. The Secretary of State has just mentioned that she is working more closely to further develop the whole year-round tourism. That's very commendable. The first steps have been taken: There is a longer calculation period for seasonal workers, and there is no waiting time for unemployment benefit; all this has, as it were, been negotiated away. To consume one third of the overtime during the season and half the aliquota holiday claim – a maximum of seven days – at the end of the season means that those who are employed in tourism are just longer employed and that less unemployment occurs. It is above all criticized by the trade union that the expectation has been raised from 26 to 28 weeks. - What are you doing? It's still preferable to me, the reputation is based on 28 weeks and the aliquote holiday claim can be granted immediately and not – as before in the construction and construction sector – only after 47 or 46 weeks; now this is possible after half a year. It will be possible, through an all-year tourism in the wellness sector and so on, that employees can work all year round and that this group of people could then get a discharge, of course, a new "handling". We remember that occupational pension provision is ensured, and we must go in this direction. We have also begun to harmonise the rights of workers, for which the old Federal Government was unable. We have enforced an approximation of the rights of workers and employees. The action "Fairness" has been implemented in principle. Although it is now often complained that the post-election day is not a matter of self-announcement, I mean, no one needs this post-search day at the time of self-announcement, he doesn't leave anyone. Also on the aliquota holiday claim is to say: You can, if you want to regulate the payment of compensation for workers and employees in the same way – six weeks full and four weeks half – you don't want to have everything and give nothing. Negotiations must be conducted in such a way that everyone contributes to the unbureaucratic process and that everyone benefits from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Silhavy, you know very well that workers pay three tenths less for health insurance, and they fear that they will have to pay six weeks longer in the event of illness, for example after a leisure accident. - It doesn't work otherwise! You have to do cancels everywhere. They have not yet been able to implement it. This federal government has implemented this, and if you want to prove that you can do something about it, then finally take measures to ensure that there is a equality between workers and employees even during the notice periods. [[Further call of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – This is to be regulated by collective agreement, and here the Trade Union Confederation could show the flag. That would be a signal that he also contributes something and not only criticizes everything. There you are juicy! You criticize the Federal Government, but you don't get anything else at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You didn't do anything to the disabled billion either. Now, by this Federal Government, an employment offensive is being launched for the disabled. 43,000 disabled people have been reported unemployed! Measures are now being taken to ensure that this group of people finds work. Priority will be given to youth and the elderly, to the mentally, mentally handicapped and to the mentally handicapped. This federal government is taking action and is also bringing it a little further, and that is what is bothering you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15174	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15196	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger explained to us today in the early days in a wonderful excursion how the administrative reform will take place and how red tape will take place. Mr Dolinschek has also just explained how slim the state will now be. – I can show you a little bit the difference between your wishful thinking and real implementation, and I can show it by means of the Federal Property Act. In the example of the Federal Property Act, I would like to tell you what it really is about by the government parties. It is about getting money at all costs for the zero deficit target in 2002 and associated with free play for gift opportunities in the 2003 budget year. – Sugars for your voters, for the voters of the government parties, for whom, as I mean, as I have heard today, "unitary government party", for Mr Haigermoser has already spoken of the "Freedom ÖVP" today; Electoral gifts, ladies and gentlemen, at the expense of the Austrians affected by your non-social savings package. The example of the Federal Property Act shows that this huge mogel pack you have prepared, because instead of more efficiency, rather than more transparency within the framework of the state real estate administration, this reform has been so carefully addressed that this law does not at all take effect and only takes more into account the particular interests. The double track in the area of the federal property management will not be eliminated. On the contrary, the management of all the properties of the federal government is not under one roof; it would even build up dual administrations here. In particular, many experts criticised the absence of these properties, including the military properties and the properties managed by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to be transferred to the BIG and transferred to the administration. Instead, the administration and exploitation of military properties with an army of – give eight – more than 1,200 staff are operated very expensive and very complex. And we criticize this great effort on the basis of the double conductivity. Let me tell you a few of these: In addition to the BIG, it is the real estate management, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, the Federal Ministry of State Defense, the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Head of the Civil Society; in addition, the ASFINAG, the agricultural and forestry buildings, the penitentiaries and ultimately the airports in the federal states. I ask you, Mr Puttinger: Where's the slim state? The relationship of managed properties in comparison to the officials responsible also shows a terrifying picture. For example, 70 percent of the Federal Ministry of Defence officials manage only 40 percent of the areas to be managed. I would like to say that this increase in efficiency and the slender state you meant has certainly not been implemented here. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How many employees does the state now have less than a year ago?]] [[Abg. Edler: None! He's still got her! He's still got her!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: He doesn't know! Answer me! Is he slimmer?]] – It is planned to be 15 000 less, but at the moment it is not less. The financial concept in the Federal Property Act brings your Minister of Finance revenue of more than 30 billion schilling; exactly it is 30 plus three. But in the end – and there is the hare in the pepper – the BIG must absorb this capital on the capital market, and this eventually becomes the debt of the federal government into the debt of the BIG. This is another evidence of this government's mogel pack. From the point of view of the construction industry – which is really important to you as an economic party – freezing the new construction activity is frightening. Of the total Austrian construction volume of around 140 billion Schilling, about 45 billion Schilling were public, 17 billion of them alone on the government. The construction industry is affected by the decline in large orders and will feel these recessive measures very clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What is the order situation? What's the order situation, please? – Plus 17 percent!]] The order situation is good at the moment, but if you listen to Mr Böhacker, you know what the future will bring. I am talking about the future because you are pushing the new building activity back to such an extent. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Afraid! Afraid! Pure fright!]] – This is not "angstmache", but these are facts relating to the construction industry. Böhacker said that too, read this! The trade union building and wood also states this in its documents. The sum of this is: A responsible economic policy should not neglect the construction factor for all economic development as you do. Investment in the construction industry achieves the highest multiplier effect in the overall economic comparison and, as you yourself will know, 80 percent of domestic value added. This clearly shows that saving on construction, as you are doing here, is the wrong way in budget policy. Investment in public buildings and infrastructure ensure competitiveness and thus also jobs for the construction industry in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15289	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15311	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, allow me to comment on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwemlein. Each and every one in this Chamber will be fully in line with the introductory rates of this motion for a resolution. It is now about humanity, about first aid, about a social network for those concerned – whether parents, spouses, or those who have no work now. However, I would like to say that a few days after this terrible accident, for example, in the course of the Committee on Budgets on Social Affairs, our Federal Minister, the Head of State and also the Minister responsible for Civil Assistance, confirmed that the priority objective of the Federal Government is to develop a comprehensive programme – and this has already been done – so that everything can be done immediately by the Civil Aid Fund and the Family Hardly Compensation Fund, at least from the financial side. [[Abg. You see this much too narrow!]] That means that it needs to be continued in the short term, and that is what it will be. In the longer term, we will have to wait for what private insurance can do. But this too has long led the government into action. [[Abg. That's not true!]] Your motion for a resolution therefore comes a little too late – as does the request for heating aid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bad prepared!]] But now on the real subject. It is, of course, about economy and work in the wider sense. I would like to say once again – and this cannot be said often enough – that a continuation of the current policy – so that I mean a policy of debt making would be a major threat to economic growth and employment in Austria. It is now time – we knew about the ÖVP – to pursue an efficient economic and labour market policy. This will also be successful with the combination of the business and work departments in a department under Federal Minister Bartenstein. It is about restructuring in the sense of renewing and improving the structures. It is about holding on to this, as Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said yesterday: Social is what creates work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a result, I would just like to focus on three points that seem very important to me. Firstly, active labour market policy. I believe that unemployment must not be "managed" - as has been the usual practice so far. Active labour market policies need to be activated, forced in relation to job-seekers and should not be paralysed. In particular, the AMS is required to adapt its structures to the needs of the modern working world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is not only important in view of the expected shortage of labour. This is particularly true of women in this area. Secondly, We need measures to ensure an effective labour market policy for the benefit of women. Women's focus is on the European Guidelines for Employment and the National Action Plan. I would also like to say that the problem of re-primary women is a priority. In this context, I would like to begin by expressing my thanks to the employees of the Women's Principle Department, who are doing important work and preparing for the development and promotion of women's projects. Now I have another request, a request: We need improved guidelines for women's projects, which are linked to other funding agencies, as well as for women's projects. This applies, of course, to everyone, but it is important to be able to promote socially just. Finally, I would like to address the opposition. It is an error to think that jobs would disappear through the renovation of the government budget. There can only be job security where public budgets are in order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15393	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15414	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The final sentence of Mr Steibl was, I must say, actually the outflow of the government policy of the past government and especially of ex-Finanzminister Edlinger. But They don't want to recognize this anymore. We take note of this. You will have to explain this outside before people, because they don't believe your version of public debt. You don't think you were there too. We have created valuable things for Austria together, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but you do not confess to them. They say goodbye, and we take note of this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it was a surprise that some speakers – even some of them from the ministerial bank – meant today, Austria is a flourishing country. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we can be proud. But don't imagine that you've been doing this in the nine months since you've been ruling! This is the work of recent years! Comparisons with Germany have been made: We have always had better economic data, especially what has affected the number of unemployed. In this regard, we have always had much better data than our German friends, and you have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have talked about more efficient structures – Mr Faul has addressed them – as far as the BIG is concerned. I would also like to take a short look at this. You would have had a chance, ladies and gentlemen, especially Minister Bartenstein – he is no longer here. But it's right: The ÖVP wanted to retain for its clients the properties of the embassies that FPÖ properties of the state defense in order to favor its clients. Admit that! Be honest! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your If you were to represent the economy, you would have had to run against the storm that such constellations are being built today. Nowhere are such constellations built. There is a roof over it in the main responsibility, and there can be divisions. But there's a wild growth of responsibility and double-liability. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have passed a very cruel law a few days ago, and you will probably even re-enact in the spring as far as housing public utility is concerned. That concerns over 100,000 families! I said in a speech last week that we received hundreds of calls in the trade unions because the tenants are insecure. You're right! It will not change in the next few months, but in a few months or years, these tenants will be exposed to new conditions, and they will have to expect significant deterioration. Above all, they have to expect higher rents. What is it, Mr Graf, with what you always promise, with the reduction of rents? What kind of policy is that? Why did you vote for it? You promise something and then don't hold it at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the place which has been addressed today, and also to what is handled through the Bundesmobiliengesellschaft: School buildings, new buildings. I say this as a Vienna MP from the constituency of Nord, the district of Donaustadt. Mr Graf knows this very well, but here, as a representative of the government parties, he does not set up any activities at all. He used to be completely different. What about the schools in the Danube City, a district that develops wonderfully? – There are many young people there and a high quality of education for pupils. They need training places. We had negotiated in the old government that a new secondary school would be built in the Heustadelgasse. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It's being built!]] They delayed this for one year, as the Minister of Finance did not sign and therefore the Bundesmobiliengesellschaft could not build. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We're not in government for that long!]] We have there an HTL that would be expandable, but from your side nothing happens. They have a policy of saving in the wrong place, especially as regards education. Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: The government passes laws with "Speed kills" methods – Klubobmann Khol has repeatedly said that. [[Abg. Neudeck: What?]] He believes people don't come along, they don't understand your policies. – I think it is the largest social reduction in the Second Republic, and people will feel it very well in a few weeks. The Federal Chancellor does not rule, he only moderates. He has made one weekend, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, he has been distracted from this horrific policy. I have to say that in it it is really perfect, it can really distract from cruel politics. It begins the discussion of a new pension reform, which is not necessary, which is not appropriate. This is a distraction from your cruel policy, ladies and gentlemen. For you, the electoral day will be payday.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15517	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15539	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Much has already been said about the favourable labour market situation which is currently taking place. Of course, such a favourable labour market situation can only be achieved if the economic situation is favourable, i.e. if the economy, if the enterprises in this Austria, in this country, have confidence in this government; then there is investment in Austria, then there are additional jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, the labour market service can contribute a little bit, and so does it. The fact that the labour market service has developed so positively in recent years is primarily due to the fact that there has been a reorganisation, a reorganisation, because there are no longer the old employment offices in which some of the employees have seen companies that have not seen businesses as partners, as it is now, but rather as opponents. One of the "architects" of the new labour market service is here today. It is Mr Dr. Stummvoll, who has made a significant contribution to this labour market service. Thank you on behalf of many colleagues, Dr. Stummvoll! – You are still speaking, Mrs Silhavy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I already know your heresy enough, I don't go into it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] I would just like to focus very briefly on the employment record. At the end of October this year, 3,157 million employees were employed in Austria. This means that, although seasonal unemployment has already been used, in which there are about 17 000 people, there are more 49 000 employees than in the annual average of the previous year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to focus briefly on the development of long-term unemployment. The reduction of long-term unemployment, of course, goes hand in hand with the good employment situation and with the projects offered by the Federal Government. I am pleased that the number of long-term unemployed has fallen from 26 600 to 15 100 compared to the previous year, so 11 500 people are less long-term unemployed. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Zweytick.]] A small mosaic stone for this is also the project "Integra". This "Integrity" project by the Federal Government, Federal Minister Bartenstein, has contributed to the return of many people to confidence in employment placement, labour market service and in this state. I would like to take a brief look at an opinion from the latest AMS-Steiermark magazine regarding an investigation, an evaluation of this "integration" project, under the heading: "Springboard into the labour market". What is said in it? What do East Styria’s officials specifically say about working particularly intensively with this project? It says: Our experiences are quite positive, both from the point of view of the carriers and from the point of view of the job-seekers. It is a pleasure to note the willingness of the institutions to make both a labour market policy and a sociological contribution to long-term unemployed and long-term unemployed. "Integration" is an effective measure to re-enter the long-term unemployed or the long-term unemployed, or to allow them to share in social life again. From our point of view, it would be desirable to consider follow-up measures. – End of quote. I congratulate Mr Bartenstein on putting these measures into effect, although such resistance has prevailed. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] 95 percent of the participants are enthusiastic about this measure. I hope that 95 percent of Members of this project will also like it. The opinion of the rest, which is still opposed and which sees this project as a forced labour project, must not necessarily be taken into account. A sentence – my speaking time is about to end – on today's statements that the disability billions, as in those days, are also opposed to the "Integration" project. I'm thinking about what was there at the time. It was about "compulsory work"! The same happens now with the project of the disabled billions. Everything is being questioned. – I am convinced that we will achieve a great deal in cooperation with the two ministries, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Economic Affairs and the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We will be able to reduce the high unemployment rate for the disabled in the near future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15657	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15678	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Staffaneller! To your "charmant" comment, I only think of one thing: I'd rather, people sucked when they're talking with weak voice not just intelligent air bubbles. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Mrs Colleague! Listen to yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] Federal Minister! You have today in your debate contribution... – Why are you so upset, ladies? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Achatz and Mr Haller.]] Why are you so upset? – Listening First of all, then you may be able to judge it if you are able to do so, ladies! Federal Minister! Today, in your contribution here in the House, you have claimed that the economy contributes 18 billion schilling to the 2001 budget. I suppose you have forgotten to offset all the gifts you return to the economy through your policy. The fact is that in 2001 the workforce will receive 34 billion schilling and the economy will contribute just one fifth of it itself. This government is taking action, has said one of the speakers of your government coalition. – One can actually say that, but regrettably, there are measures against the workers of this country. In unemployment insurance – Mr Federal Minister – we have already been able to discuss this at the budget, and you have also gratefully even answered it in writing – you are doing a one-time robbery by removing almost 12 billion schilling from the pot for 2001. For this, people who have lost their jobs are punished. That's not social, and that's unfair. You reduce the family supplements and you extend the deadline for the second reference. They thus meet precisely those people who need these benefits most urgently. That, Mr Federal Minister, is not balanced and unsocial. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that's not enough, Minister of State! In the future, you will also want to remove the more favourable relationship with new expectations, and in all cases you have also obtained a rather juicy regulatory empowerment, with which, in certain sectors, if certain conditions do not arise, you can reach a 14-day rest by regulation, which naturally affects the unemployed people. Federal Minister! I ask you: Where is the economy taken into account? Why, Mr Federal Minister, if the tourism sector is such a big problem – you yourself have given us the 2.5 billion schilling deficit in unemployment insurance for this area in writing – is it not the tourism industry? Why have you not given any thought to the fact that the economy no longer receives cross-subsidisation in this area, but that it itself makes efforts to employ people longer and also to have longer seasons? – You did not give any answers to that. I would like to address one point because it has already been very strangely deposited today. It has been proclaimed grand and full-bodied that the economy will pay half for the payments of the forced workers. Now we note that 3.7 billion schilling is being disintegrated by the IAG Fund precisely for this measure. 3.7 billion schilling is taken from a fund where we expect a deficit of 1.2 billion schilling. That means you'll probably increase the fund's deficit to around 5 billion schilling. – So much to fight your deficit when it comes to employee and employee interests. Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé – unfortunately, she is not present at this time – has even been a Gustopückerl today when she meant that the additional wage costs are now the subject of our class struggle. Obviously, Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé really don't know what extra wage costs mean, or she doesn't want to know. Lowering the additional wage costs means that where you give gifts to entrepreneurs, workers are punished for it, and fewer benefits will be paid to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But all of this is clearly known to you anyway. Why else, I ask you, did the new so-called social spokesperson Gaugg of the FPÖ, although he was in the plenary room in the vote on the budget accompanying law and also held his nice grey carton in his hand, not give his voice? Although he was in the plenary room, did he hear his name call? Does he perhaps share the view that the measures you take are one-sided and only affect workers? Then there is another interesting topic. The Federal Chancellor is trying to initiate a new discussion by saying that the retirement age must be increased by two years. You have decided inadvertently a pension reform, with which you have even abolished the early pension in case of reduced working capacity. This has happened inconveniently and retroactively. And all of a sudden, I read in the paper: "The gilded waiting time." Now the exit from the public service is to be made tasty at 55 years and 80 percent. Is that your form of new government? – That’s very interesting. But probably what I read in "NEWS" today is true: Grasser's gone to Dictat. – This is a very interesting thing. Grasser's gone after the dictatorship. Mr Bartenstein! Are you under the dictatorship of Mr. Finanzminister? - Obviously it is! Or are you, in fact, just economic ministers and not labour ministers, as you at least officially call yourself? Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say one thing: It is very thoughtful for me to do so in this House, if you make organisations that successfully represent the interests of large groups of the population in Austria, as the ÖGB does, for example, by saying the following sentence in connection with a peaceful human chain; the Federal Chancellor of this Republic says, and that, I think, is a real scandal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl keeps a poster up.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What is that? It says, "The Federal Chancellor shall be hanged!"]] Read what the Federal Chancellor of this Republic has said in connection with the human chain around the High House. He said: "One should consider steps in this regard, as well as the sensuality, yes, the admissibility of some political protests." [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Distance yourself from such a thing!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Distance yourself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Shame and distance yourself!]] The Federal Chancellor of this government questions fundamental rights in this House, and that is a scandal in this Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15811	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15833	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The safeguarding of the economic location is the central concern of this Federal Government. In just ten months, this Federal Government has achieved much to draw closer to this objective and to make our entrepreneurs more competitive in the markets. Not everything has happened, Mr Edler from the railway – I don't know where he went now – but many things have already been implemented by this Federal Government. People in this country accept this, and the economy trusts this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even if you don't believe it: The economic figures, the key figures speak for this confidence. Only an economy that has confidence in the future is also ready to invest. And this is what the Austrian economy is doing because it has confidence in this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council This year this Federal Government has set a new milestone in the development of its competitive conditions. With the decision to stop making new debts, it contributes significantly to the fact that Austria's economic location will continue to be safe in the future. The economy welcomes these efforts, even if the economy – this is to be said clearly here, especially my two previous speakers, Mr Edler and Mrs Silhavy, who may not be able to read budgets... [[Abg. Silhavy: We are able to read budgets! What about reducing the sickness allowance?]] You have said here that the economy is being promoted. – The economy pays billions in this consolidation stop because the economy and the representatives of the economy are convinced that it is necessary to clean up now and today. [[New call for tender Silhavy]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also meant, ladies and gentlemen of the left-wing Reichsdrittel, when Mr Klubobmann Khol speaks of "social partnership new". I would like to try to deal with this subject in peace. The representatives of the economy are aware of the responsibility and the representatives of the economy carry this package, even if it is not easy for them and even if they need to explain to their people. [[Abg. Silhavy: What is your function?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the case with the union. The union forms human chains around Parliament. It is poor in arms with those who do not frighten away from violence and destruction of public and private institutions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if he warns against moving the social partners from the negotiating table to the street, he is right. But I'll tell you one thing: They will not bring this government to ruin, neither on the streets nor here in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Instead, they will reach the opposite. More and more people will gather behind this government, and more and more people will find you behind this government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Even though Mr Vergestnich, whom I very much appreciate, thinks it is a photo-mounting, this picture may serve as a warning to him where a path can lead when the masses once march on the road. [[The speaker holds a photo in the height]] Please take this with you today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is not only committed to the responsibility for a solid and consolidated government budget, but the economy is also committed to its history. I'd like to hold on to one thing here: The funds in the ISG Fund are purely employers' contributions, and it cannot be as Mr Posch announced here yesterday, that this means "atoning the unemployed for forced workers". Mr Posch! The economy not only contributes to this 3.7 billion schilling, but also to the 1.5 billion schilling of the former state-owned enterprises come from the economy and are contributions to the economy. These companies can only do this because we have forced these companies to be privatized and can therefore work so successfully today. As a citizen of the city of Weiz, I am proud that the Elin is privatized and works so successfully today that it has a leading position worldwide that it was unable to have ten years ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sophie Bauer.]] Therefore, privatisation must continue. We must work to develop a modern professional law that meets two requirements, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on competition. I would like to say, because so much is being said about free access to entrepreneurship: I am also a very liberal person, but we will not be able to assume that an entrepreneur's only qualification is that he can't do anything. That's what we should beware of. After all, 80 percent of the insolvencys themselves are made, and 90 percent of these insolvencys are based on lack of basic commercial knowledge. Therefore, an appropriate qualification for an entrepreneur is not only self-protection for him, but also a protection for his employees and creditors. Ladies and gentlemen! This high qualification of Austrian entrepreneurs also lays the basis for the enormous achievements of the economy in the field of youth unemployment or for the creation of youth jobs as well as for jobs in the field of training. I would ask you to take this into account in your considerations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein does not need to be subject to any dictatorship by Mrs Silhavy – she is deficient. We know that the economy is in good hands with this Federal Minister. We know that this Federal Government with Minister Bartenstein will create the framework conditions that will enable us to succeed in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have another amendment to make. This application is an application in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, which I would like to briefly explain in its main guidelines and key points. We decided last week to amend the Federal Property Act, so the resulting changes in the original Federal Finance Act cannot yet be included. The amendment in question now contains the relevant approaches in the Federal budget for the chapter on construction and technology. On the one hand, I would ask the President to make this request for distribution, and on the other hand, I would ask that this request be included in the deliberations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e15965	This proposed amendment is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and is therefore part of the negotiations and is currently being distributed. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16412	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16441	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to dedicate a few minutes to the Federal Minister. For the time being, however, I would like to make a comment on the drinking of Members. Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I If you want, you'll get a whole pack of documents. Work and discuss with the members of the Christian Trade Unionists Group of the ÖAAB. Besides the few ÖAAB delegates sitting here in Parliament, there is no one – call me one! . who supports these measures by the Federal Government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] – No, there is none! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tell me! There are a few more examples from me. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: They need to talk to you differently than to us!]] Please note: Mr Verzetznich has distanced himself from this photo assembly. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: When?]] I personally distance myself from such events. There will be no such thing in the demonstration of the ÖGB. But our right to demonstrate peacefully, we will not let ourselves be taken. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to you, Minister of State: In the first debates, when you were freshly praised, I asked the question: Who will be stronger – the Minister of Economic Affairs or the Minister of Labour in you? A few examples: You have quoted the wage round of the metal workers in your first reply. They have found that the conclusion of 3.4 percent of the Ist wages lies at the top latte. All the experts have confirmed that all economic journalists who understand something about the economy in this country have confirmed this. This has even been confirmed by Dr. Felder, who is certainly unable to predict a close relationship with the trade union. But, of course, the Minister had to make a follow-up comment when he said: perhaps a trace of it. – He can't stop it! His heart, ladies and gentlemen, suggests to the employers. He told me already in June via APA, addressed to the Metal Trade Union, - "sugar bread and whip" is called that – that he is convinced that – that was addressed to me personally – I am aware of the responsibility for this location in Austria. Federal Minister! I assured you from this point of view that I am aware of the responsibility. But in the same breath you are assured that we are even more aware of the responsibility to secure the standard of living of workers in this country. I'll hold on to this. Despite a Mr. Ex-Secretary General, who volunteered from the Austrian Chamber of Commerce – of course, I know that anyway! – I can tell you that the social partners work at our level. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Ask the Leitel!]] We've got 3.4 percent Ist-Lohn-Elevation – that's probably not going to get anybody in this country – without strike threats, without originality, without playing muscle. We have achieved this relatively quickly by means of negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Collective Contract Partnership!]] I have great respect, ladies and gentlemen, for the employers in the metal industry. I emphasize this from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What else should you bring to the public about parade examples of where your heart is beating? – In any case: This lobby of yours, Mr Ex-Secretary-General stupid, speaks for itself. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: What?]] However, they must explain to people in our country how all this is to be done! They say: The economy rejoices, rejoices and rejoices, what good Minister of Economic Affairs Dr Bartenstein is! Only: He's not doing anything for the workers! And both together – Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour – will probably not be able to go well either. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Because she makes opposition policy!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Wait a bit, I will not spare you either, Minister, and tell you what members of your party say, such as Dinkhauser, Gajdosik or Dirnberger. These are the requirements of mandates: "No to Bartenstein plans!" All your mandates should vote against the deterioration in unemployment benefit. "You'll take the mandates to duty," it says – listen, Spindelegger! – "to vote against deterioration and to remind the ÖAAB mandates that their loyalty primarily belongs to the workers." [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] - Quote. On the topic of unemployment insurance, Dirnberger – I quote – said: There is no deficit in the unemployment fund, but surplus. There is no need to save on the unemployed. And besides, Dirnberger said: This is only about disposing by a minister who has not yet made the leap from the lobbyist of industry to the Minister of Labour from his inner attitude. The ÖAAB MEPs in Parliament should give him the answer. - Quote. Please tell ÖVP party members, not me! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know you don't like the Dinkhauser very much about the ÖVP. [[Ironic cheerfulness and renewed calls to the ÖVP.]] Other broadcasts by Dinkhauser: Neo-liberal Minister of Labour should not confuse his task with that of a lobbyist in industry! – But now I have it used, Minister Bartenstein. I could, of course, bring you a number of other examples. Mr Minister, I personally say: You didn't fool me! And I share the opinion of a Dirnberger, a Gajdosik, a Dinkhauser: You are really the prime minister of the employers!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16650	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16671	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Winter is at the doorstep – that is, less temperatures than the calendar at the moment – and I hope that tourism is facing a good winter season. [[Abg. Huber: Social cold has arrived!]] But there is something else that points to the coming winter, namely the ever-increasing reputation of the tourism industry for additional labour for winter tourism. Tourism needs additional labour, not a question, and it is no secret that for many, many years in particular, we have always called for a seasonal model and that the ideas of our liberals have gone beyond the current regulation, because this would have been beneficial both for workers and for employers. There is a seasonal regulation by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, which has been in place since 10. In November 2000, 3 570 seasons are planned for Austria, including 1 300 for Salzburg and 1 100 for Tyrol. Mr Bartenstein and Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann responded to a further request from the tourism industry, and so there was on 16 June. An additional quota was adopted in November. A corresponding draft was sent to assess the fact that 300 additional workers are provided for Salzburg and 400 additional workers for Tyrol. - So far, so good. I therefore do not fully understand, Mr Federal Minister, that there are press releases, press releases, in particular, a press release by the chairman of the Tirol Economics Federation, namely of the 21st century. November, in which this demands of you "more flexibility, more excitement" in this area. – I don’t know, it’s the flow of information, is it perhaps because one wants to calm down a certain constituency client, or is that – and this would really bother me – a relapse to old ways of doing things when the economy repeatedly demands additional workers from abroad? . My colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, has already responded to this today. In the end, such a process has led to the fact that during the high season, unemployed people in the tourism sector have been able to take advantage of unemployment compensation until the last day, even in times of high season. I am now consciously not making a difference between domestic or foreign workers. In any case, for example, learned painters prefer to ski for three months in winter, because the company they worked in has locked up – and this please, although in the tourism industry, for example, housemasters are always sought. Even in the case of lifts, additional workers are always needed. – So this is the issue of visibility. This is one thing, Mr Federal Minister, which is always very dear to me, a matter that our new Federal Government must take care of. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For example, women were very likely to be available to the labour market all day after a year and a half – otherwise the unemployment benefit was removed. There were a number of such cases. That's why I'm glad that we're on 1st. In January 2002, child care funds will be introduced so that women can stay at home for two years, but they may be exempted from the decision to enter the work process sooner or not. Again: If that's what women want. However, it should not be so, Mr Federal Minister – this is a special concern to me – that these women are saved in training. That is what I am saying now, particularly with regard to those women who, by removing the training allowance in 2001 in some way, fall into a "hole" and in some cases lose their jobs. I think we should use this time limit to increase the level of qualification of these women and to address training measures. A system of feasibility should also address this Federal Government in another area, but it has so far been so that it has not been considered reasonable for the unemployed to take on a poorer qualified job because they would have negotiated disadvantages. I hope, at least, that the current positive development in the labour market will continue. And then, Federal Minister, it will be an hour's commandment to use existing resources on the labour market better – at least better than it has been so far – just in times of high season. This will then benefit the tourism industry as a whole – and of course also the Austrian taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16744	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16765	Mr President. High house! For topical reasons, Mrs Haller, I would like to refer to the comments you have made regarding the seasonal regulations. Originally, after consultation with the auditing bodies and also on the basis of the proposals of the AMS, I approved 3 570 such seasonals, which is a departure from the practice practised in the previous year – at the beginning of November. Since this winter tourism season – at least before the sad event in Kaprun and probably because one did not yet know that winter will last a little later – had very great expectations, it was thought, above all in Tyrol and Salzburg, that with the previous number of workers, it would not be possible to find out. This is really not about lobbyists, and it is not about the unilateral interests of hoteliers on the one hand or about those of the tourism trade unions on the other. In my opinion, there is a very balanced expertise of a regional office of the AMS. This is, by the way, socially occupied and, as I believe, is beyond any doubt. On the basis of their proposals and on the basis of the recommendations made by my section responsible for this, I have today adopted a so-called supplementary regulation, which allows 2 160 additional seasonals, in agreement with Mrs Tourism-State Secretary Mares Rossmann. At any rate, I hope that now, with regard to a wide range of needs regarding ski World Championships in St. Anton, the outcome can be found. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, this applies not only to Salzburg or Tyrol, but also to most other federal states – I am well aware that seasonals should not push out domestic, Austrian workers; that is not just the goal, but it should be avoided –: The aim is to provide tourism companies with rapidly needed workers so that they can get through the season. We have tried to do this today in a second step.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16825	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16846	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! I begin my remarks with, so to speak, an "unofficial" actual correction: Mr Gaugg, Mr Dolinschek and Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann recently claimed that SPÖ had not pursued a disability policy. I'll put it right: The SPÖ has certainly pursued disability policy, and in this context only a few words: Disabled persons' recruitment law, introduction of the care allowance – a social policy milestone – favoured insurance for caregivers, employment assistance, disability advisory board. This is to give just a few examples. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Neudeck.]] - I'll come to talk about it. Against the background of these remarks, I ask myself: What does this Federal Government want? What do the members of this Federal Government want when they pursue labour market policy? What does this federal government in particular want if it promises – or should I say: if it threatens? – to pursue disability policy if it promises to bring more people with disabilities into the work process, because at the same time – in response to a request – it speaks of people "with special difficulties in the labour market"! I repeat: "People with special difficulties"! Who's in trouble, then, and who's making these people? Isn't it about people with special needs? However, these needs are not or are not taken into account. Who is responsible for being taken into account? Who has to answer these people? – This is the responsibility of a federal government! That's your responsibility! [[towards the government bank]] You have to take measures to prevent these people from finding so many difficulties. For example, you should take employers, entrepreneurs, into account so that they actually fulfil their duty to recruit disabled people! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There is a disability law, and this has proved to be the case. But that colleague who has criticized this doesn't want to hear it now. The answer from the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations – I quote – is: As a whole, the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons has proved itself to be quite successful. - Quote. You can see that as an agreement to this law; there you will have to give me the right. But it also says here: Against the background of changing framework conditions, it appears appropriate to discuss further development within a working group. - Quote. The conditions have not changed, the conditions are still the same: People are disabled, and they want to work. – But what does "development" of the recruitment law mean? In his reply, Mr. Minister, he spoke about the need to discuss the protection of termination. – It can only be said that this should be softened to protect your clients so that entrepreneurs can get rid of disabled people more easily. They're also talking about the compensatory taxes. – The funds in the ATF, so your answer, stagnate at 760 million schilling. – This is too little for a serious disability policy, you know, and that is why you also get money for labour market policies. Two billion schillings get you. But of whom? – Of people with disabilities, such as a human being, whose essential data of his fate I would like to briefly show you: Work accident with 33 years, 14 months hospital stay, with rehab stays total four years. 30 operations, four years wheelchair, now occasional route management on two crags, constant severe pain, constant medical treatment, severe psychological damage at that time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't you want to believe that? Do you doubt the statements of this accident pensioner? [[Abg. Großruck: I don't think what you say!]] From this disabled person you get the money, and the club... [[Abg. Grandruck: That's crazy!]] Yeah, that's what I'm going to find: Your policy! Klubobmann Westenthaler is here and says 1 billion more Schilling is spent on the disabled. But do you know how this is financed? – Take 2 billion schilling They disabled people away, and of that you give them 1 billion schilling back, so to speak, as alms. [[Abg. Grandruck: Don't talk like that.]] This is a policy of deception and camouflage, but not a real policy. This is pure cynicism, Mr Colleague – and not a real policy for the disabled! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of foundation billionaires you take 0.33 percent, but of accident pensioners 33 percent, that is, one hundred times! The summit of cynicism will be reached with the following action: The Federal Government takes away money from the disabled and then calls on them to discuss in a working group what should, so to speak, be done with this "consumer". – This is your labour market policy for disabled people! The disabled themselves finance their jobs! We Social Democrats have other answers: The ATF doesn't have to stagnate! Take the entrepreneurs into duty – still buy too many free in this regard. Increase payments in the ATF to an appropriate amount! Even with an increase of about 8,000 s, you don't have to take away the people with disabilities, but you could really help the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16968	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e16992	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am urged to refer to some of my previous speakers. Mrs Plank, you have shown the fate of a disabled person here, but have not said what about this disabled person. So they obviously "forget" to tell us his fate. [[Abg. May. Plank: The accident pension was taken away from him!]] I can tell you now: In the next few days, if he is not already here today, it would be necessary to send a letter from a disabled person who has already asked us to avoid this redundancy protection several times, so that he will finally get a job because he wants to work and can work and he sees it as a shock. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] At any rate, he accuses the AMS that this does not give him any work or take him. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To refer to Mr Edler's comments: I was just "fearing" when he threatened us like this: In the next elections you will already get the "washes" that bill for your politics! In Styria you have said so much evil about this federal government about the SPÖ, you have shown us the "red map" – and the population has actually already voted on the policy of this federal government. See just the result of the country elections in Styria! Whether with a shrill voice or a mild temper, as Mr Nürnberger has said today: Again and again you have assured from the left of this House today that the trade union will demonstrate peacefully and that there will be a peaceful human chain. Mrs Mikl- Leitner discussed yesterday with a youth group. Among them was a student from the Social Academy, and she told colleague Mikl-Leiter that there the students were asked by the teachers to bake cakes or buy them and buy them on 5 May. He was sent to the police on 1 December. – This is your "peaceful demonstration", ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Bravo! That's crazy!]] Apart from being afraid of throwing food around, this "peaceful demonstration" is once again a lie. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Today's debate, as well as the entire debate on the budget, could be your motto: Let me make my prejudices, don't confuse me with facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think it is particularly important to point out those points which represent a significant improvement in the area of unemployment insurance law, with you telling only half of the SPÖ there. One of the most important improvements for those concerned is the removal of the billing of partner income in the granting of family allowances. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Where is Nuremberger?]] So far it has been so that every woman whose husband earned more than 14 663 s net has not received a child supplement, now she receives it and thus receives more per child by 400 S. Ladies and gentlemen! I have never heard of this before from you, even last time in the debate on the budget accompanying law. That's unpleasant for you, because it's a positive thing. On this point, however, I would have expected you to point out, because one of your biggest demands is the loss of partner income in the calculation of transfers. So you've remained guilty to the government, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! The next point would be to ensure that in the case of low incomes, those below the compensatory allowance rate of 8 312 S, unemployment benefit is at least 60 per cent – 54.9 per cent so far – and that in the case of the unemployed in the comparable income classes with children this unemployment benefit increases to 80 per cent in the future, ladies and gentlemen! What is evidence of social cold? This has never been mentioned by you; that is the second part of the truth you always want to bring. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Steibl: They don't understand!]] You have always criticized the unification of the family allowance for unemployed and pensioners on 400 S, because you have always spoken only of those who get less, but you have not spoken of those who now get more. After all, the 60 000 pensioners, including 38 000 disabled, benefit from it, are those who have low incomes, including many women. This too is a part of the truth that obviously does not fit you. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, Mr Minister! – The Federal Minister is no longer here. [[The speaker turned to the government bank.]] Mrs State Secretary, I would ask you to pass on my wish, namely the wish that, in the area of the AMS, which is now part of the Federal Minister Bartenstein, the women's advisory services should be better looked at, looked at, whether the funding is sufficient, but also that a controlling should be introduced, so that there is also an efficient approach here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I'll tell you why. At the family hearing, at the survey, Mrs. Mag. Moritz from the Chamber of Workers Vienna claims that there was no advice for re-entry throughout Austria. I wondered and followed, and she then obviously corrected herself and meant that there would be no advice for women regarding the compatibility of family and work and for re-entry. I have some testimonies for that. [[Abg. Steibl: Exactly!]] I was deeply amazed because there are many resources going to these women's councils. That's what I'm asking myself: What are they doing? I have a responsibility, and I always hear it from my own constituency. I'm always asked: What are they doing? The people on the ground obviously do not know that either, and I have always thought that they would be there to help women with advice and deed. Since it is the AMS, i.e. the Employment Office, and AMS costs, I meant that this is about advice on re-entry, so it is about real help. I have to question that now. As I said, Mrs Mag. Moritz from the Chamber of Workers in Vienna has made me very insecure, and I would therefore ask that this area be reviewed. All those who do good work do not need to be accused. I think you should put your finger on it and really look at it carefully, because it is tax money that is used there, and we have a right to efficiency!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17161	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Pittermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17183	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr President, I was actually very uncomfortable that there was no call for order when a man, a Member of Parliament, accused a female Member of "breeding". Because of other things, orders are given, women are obviously allowed to visit the heresy, and that is not worth a call for order! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Friend: Go!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] It is quite possible and also right if political groups do not wish to give their assent to a request. You don't even have to explain that. Only: The fact that an opposition is always accused of fundamental opposition if it does not agree with the government's proposals is no longer explainable to me. Why can't they and the others? Or are you really so convinced of your exaggeration? They are right not to throw cakes, but it was even worse when real gunballs were thrown on people or shot and the people died of them. But now on my real topic: The Federal Chancellor stated that the retirement age should be further increased due to the higher life expectancy. Many people, however, are no longer able to work due to their state of health, nor are they in demand on the labour market. For this reason, the use of occupational medicine is particularly important to prevent occupational diseases, occupational diseases and burn-out syndrome. The increase in retirement due to psychological problems has increased dramatically in recent years. There must therefore be effective prevention and effective protection of workers. [[Abg. Großruck: Who has been to the government in recent years?]] Mr. Großruck! You haven't finished studying medicine, otherwise you might also understand! [[Abg. Großruck: I ask: Who has put the Federal Chancellor in recent years?]] If a holding is subject to workers' protection, it is intended to be reduced. The Chamber of Commerce wants to destroy workers' protection and to exploit people more. Already 15-year-olds are allowed to work in the hospitality business until 23:00. Have you evaluated how night work affects young people? Not evaluable are currently long-term effects. Make sure that the work-medical examination is also carried out, and initiate studies on how mental pressure, chord work and long day-to-day work have an effect. They want children as pensioners. But how should mothers combine the long day-to-day working time and care for their children in view of the shorter kindergarten opening times? Safety and health protection should only apply if the employer can afford it. The trader is liable only in consideration of the overall behaviour. This eliminates the protection of workers. The use of occupational physicians and safety technicians is also expected to be drastically reduced. It's threatening people! The working person now comes to the Soyfer’s Committeeware, as he once described it so aptly. The maximization of the single person's profit seems to be worth more to you than health and safety many. But what is the effective protection of workers? – Is it the one who maximizes economic profits and is still tolerant to the service provider – this Monday there was another horrible accident at work! – or do you remember that people also want to live a little bit, not only work until they get damaged, with financial deposits or also dead out of the work process? Shortening the working hours of occupational physicians and safety technicians is dangerous. All labour inspection reports show fatal accidents and fatal diseases that hit people especially where workers' protection has not been optimally observed. The excellent labour inspection must continue to build up. In addition to the control of dangerous establishments, I would like to see increased controls on the law on working time in hospitals. Many colleagues complain that the Working Time Act will be suspended. This is dangerous for patients and doctors, as we see from treatment errors and increased suicide rates. Alcohol is also a work problem. Work to ensure that non-alcoholic beverages are given at all workplaces. For example, Parliament should only have an alcohol-free effect, because last night the level of alcohol must have been very high, as was noted by the heated mood! Non-alcoholic parliamentarians have exemplary effects, alcohol-free jobs prevent accidents at work. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zelot: This is a cut-off!]] Announcing visits to the labour inspection is counterproductive. The labour inspector is then satisfied, although some are in annoyance. If the economy and the protection of workers are concerned together, the task is to safeguard the interests of workers in the weaker position. We did not allow the health of workers to be put at risk in the interests of the economy, thereby pushing people into sickness, invalidity and death. The next labour inspection reports will show these consequences!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17285	The next speaker is Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17306	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! On today's debate on employment and the economy, I would like to speak mainly as a worker and, in particular, on the much debated sector of skilled workers. Undisputed fact is that there is no longer any recoverable need in this sector. But why did such a blatant situation arise at all? I personally see the cause of a vocational and training policy that has gone past the market. At the beginning of the 1970s, a development began to move in two directions. First, a study boom began, which was quite welcome at the time. I too studied in the 1970s. Secondly, the labour market has changed considerably over the last 15 years. This has resulted in a sheer development which today presents us with the problem of having a very high proportion of academics on the one hand, which is undoubtedly very correct and important, and on the other hand a very high proportion of workers and assistants. This has greatly reduced the number of skilled workers. What we are missing now are highly qualified specialists, technicians and specialists, for example in the fields of mechanical engineering, steel construction, environmental engineering, gastronomy and, of course, in the top areas of computer and IT. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! This is a failure that also falls within your 30-year reign. What I blame and criticise you is that, in view of this development, you have done nothing to counter this more than major problem today. As an employee representative, they have pursued something determined, namely an extra-class debt policy. You know the figures: 2 200 billion schilling total debt, 100 billion schilling interest per year, 140 million schilling per day and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! In this way, a labour and economic policy cannot be made. This new government, on the other hand, has already set the course in the right direction within a very short time, namely on social and economic aspects. Example: Child money from 1.1.2000, a rapid reduction in old-age costs and a balanced budget, investments for the future, almost full employment, the lowest youth unemployment, which is very pleasing, reduced age unemployment by more than 20 percent, in 2001 5.5 billion Schilling provided for pensioners, 15 billion Schilling additional costs by 2003, 10 billion Schilling for technology and research. That is the answer to 30 years of social democracy at the government, which shows how to make a successful and effective change in the course of that red work and economic flagship, so that it does not start. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! Finally, I would like to suggest an old Tyrolean proverb: Savings start at the lid, which means if you can remove the lid from a storage container and see it on the floor, then it's too late. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Minister Bartenstein and, above all, the government, I can only congratulate on this courageous and not simply step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17356	Mr Dobnigg is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17377	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the budget discussed here in the House these days, this federal government has once again proved what fundamentally wrong budgetary, social, distribution and social policy it pursues. [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] You of ÖVP and FPÖ have repeatedly shown your face to the social cold. Now you can also shout "yes". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This false policy shakes the social state of Austria, which has been established over the last decades, into its foundations. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?]] In addition, this coalition government completely overlooks the impossibility of significant investments in the Austrian site, in research and development through such a budget policy. The changes in the legislation already adopted and planned are designed to adversely affect the interests of the Solidarity Community. [[Abg. Großruck: Just think, don't direct the bus!]] The principles of the rule of law are widely disregarded and the rights to the opinion and negotiation of the social partners are deliberately undermined. It is a scandal, for example, if the Federal Chamber of Labour, which under the law has the right to participate in draft legislation, is granted a period of time of just four days. I claim that this is another typical example of the ongoing unacceptable handling of this coalition government with the workers' representatives and the social partners. They want ÖVP and FPÖ to destroy the social partners. However, we Socialists will be able to prevent this by all democratic means. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One of the many unbalanced measures under the 2001 Budgetary Support Act is the amendment of the Special Support Act for Miners. This is reflected in existing social plans, which have been approved by workers in confidence of the now repealed transitional provision. This means a break in the principle of trust – something that this Federal Government has already operated many times and shamelessly in many other areas. To date, further applications for special support have been made under the operating agreements made before the deadline, in view of the transitional provisions in force for the abolition of the special aid. As a result of the change now envisaged, this will only be until 31. ==References== This means that, in addition to the loss of jobs, social hardships and the loss of income must be taken away by workers – this is what people who have to earn or earn their living under the most difficult conditions and at the expense of their health. The burden of the economic rationalisation measures of companies is thus becoming even stronger and more unilateral, than is already the case, on the workers concerned. It shows once again how little black and blue are interested in the problems and concerns of workers. Support measures will be reversed in the short term, while for instance, social plans – the pension keyword from 55 onwards – will be negotiated. Thousands of officials are also to be removed from the wrong idea of this government. What is the joint action of this process with the miners? – In recent months and days, you have repeatedly tried to play a professional group against the others. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who writes this to you?]] The planned changes to the Night Heavy Labour Act also show very clearly the principle of your legal conservative policy of cruelty: Entrepreneurs are generously relieved, while workers are thrown out in all areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The extent to which you have already distanced yourself from the concerns and concerns of the working people with your policy is also reflected in the closure of IESG locations in the course of the privatisation of the insolvency fund. For example, it is planned to close the Leoben site, although important factors for maintaining this department, such as high performance value, short procedure duration, proximity to citizens and much more. In future, after closing the Leoben site, the workers concerned will have to take on job problems and financial problems as well as an unreasonablely wide arrival until the next service, for example from an end of the Styria, for example Schladming, to Graz. Again, your motto is: In doubt for the economy. The employees are completely indifferent to you. Ladies and gentlemen! These government parties promised the electorate a lot before the National Council election and broke everything. They burden the majority of Austrians, have all pulled over the table and want to sell this friction as nest heat. I therefore call on the two government parties to: Farewell You are from your anti-employee policy – for the benefit of the working people in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17484	Mr Schultes is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17505	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to point out that the labour inspectorate has obviously not been in this house for a very long time, neither with the support of a workers' chamberer nor with no companion. At least the armchairs were not inspected in the last row, because they are really ugly. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There they are no better!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about work and business today. We are talking about how it can and should be in Austria; we are not talking about what it is like. I admit that we particularly like to highlight the successes of the ÖVP – and perhaps also the colleagues of the liberals – but, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, as you represent Austria, we are not even when foreign newspapers write about us who do not want us! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hornegger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have economic data in Austria to envy us very many countries of the world. We have an export increase of more than 7.5 percent in Austria last year – despite the sanctions you know very well how they came about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have an apprenticeship development in Austria to envy us from many countries. Lower Austria is the country with the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe. We have many businesses in Austria that are looking for workers because our economy is dynamic, because it is in transformation and because our people – our self-employed, our tradesmen, our farmers and our employees – are doing something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have an economic debate here today, and we have some colleagues in the House who understand some of it. We also have colleagues in the house who understand some of it. I hope that in the opposition, too, the governments present – I am particularly pleased that Mr Pirklhuber is present; oh, yes, he has put himself extra forward – understand something of politics. [[Abg. Grossruck: No, no more!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Oh, there he is!]] I know that you understand something about business, I hope. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] But one thing is certain: If it really is, then you also know that we are living in the world of the euro. The world of the euro is a different world than you were used to when you had the say in Austria for 30 years. The world of the euro is a world in which it is about efficiency and comparability. [[Abg. Großruck: Gusenbauer is still living in the world of ruble!]] This is a world in which we can no longer play the old instrument of social-democratic policy, namely inflation. This is a world in which the country can be further developed through transformation, development, courage and confidence. [[Abg. Edler: That's terrible nonsense! That's a nonsense!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's why I'm looking for you: Work with and help to encourage people, and finally stop living up to your possible personal problems in this house! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a country that has 100 billion schilling to pay on interest – and you say that is good, you say it should be more. [[Abg. Heinzl: Who says that?]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's really something special. They want the debt to increase. [[Abg. May. Plank: Quote!]] They want interest to increase. I hope you will read your press services yourself so that you can finally find out what your chairman has to say to you. [[Abg. Faul: Who wrote you such a nonsense?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economy means working for the country. Our economy creates the basis for our success. Our economy is the basis of our social benefits. Our economy is the basis of health policy, environmental policy and our culture. Ladies and gentlemen! Help yourself with... – I said! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What is it like in environmental policy? Explain!]] Help people in this country to be courageous, proud and happy about their achievements. Help us develop what is important to us – performance, sustainability, social peace and prospects for youth. It's worth it for you too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17691	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17712	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, I would like to ask you once again to take up the minutes of Mr Staffaneller's speech – he has condoned a female Member – in order to perhaps call for an order. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No, no!]] [[Abg. Binder: Incredible!]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm dedicated to youth. – Some 40 000 young people in Austria have already started or will do a lesson, but it is very close to the apprenticeship market, because there are too few teaching places available. The young people have little choice. I can tell you that your changes in the field of vocational training and youth employment are to blame, ladies and gentlemen from the workers' anti-union government! Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, cannot have a calm conscience if he repeatedly claims that in Austria a training place is guaranteed for all young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If he looks at the numbers of the AMS, he is taught a better person. Maybe he should look a little more than just the numbers. If I can make a Bartenstein bill here, I can say, for example: In one district we have five hairdressers, five mechanic teachers and ten job seekers. Then we have no problem – that is what Minister Bartenstein thinks. But this is a milk bill, ladies and gentlemen, because who says that these ten people want to take exactly these professions! – That really is not in line with the facts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So your bill was not very successful, definitely!]] The fact is that some 4,000 young people will not find a teaching place, Mr Schweitzer. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you say to you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In 1999, 4 000 jobs were created in the vocational courses and in the teaching foundations, which the economy could not offer. Two thirds of young people have really been able to continue their teaching successfully on the basis of these measures following a start-up programme. If you could benefit the economy 2.3 billion schilling and offer them only 352 teaching places, then these 800 million who were provided for these measures were probably not to compare from efficiency, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Are you "Euroteam"?]] Our request for the Youth Training Security Act is really a measure against youth unemployment. This is not deliberately taken on the Committee's agenda because you believe that you can score with your apprentice deterioration package. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why is this a deterioration package?]] But your so-called alternatives are first half-hearted, second, only economically friendly and thirdly anti-educated. This can be seen very easily from the example of the teaching. I'm leaving out all the other measures now. – When a young person gets involved in a teaching, ladies and gentlemen – I expressly warn that the young people are doing this! – then he will probably expect the following: The entrepreneur will tell him: I'm not gonna take you two, I'm gonna take you three years, but only if you find out! You know, six months of probation; if not, then you are gone, without any reason, understand! If you are good, then you may stay, but retention period there is none; There is no teaching contract, either, if I do not want to! Cash will not be increased; first year of teaching, three years of cash from the first year of education – that's all in your package, that's what you decided! – you can also forget a recognized degree! If I really take you into a teaching after three previous years, you will only be counted for six months; so it looks like that! Any other questions? – That’s how it could happen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What does that mean, please? – From now on, the economy can recruit cheap assistants for low relief services and save money. As an example of a hairdresser's teaching: In contrast to a recognized teaching, 56 000 s are saved if the apprentice is exploited for three years. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You have no idea of the doctrine! You're a teacher!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, how do you want to rely on quality in apprenticeship training if you use young people this way? I say to you, of the 40 000 who are under discussion this year, probably half will be affected. But we don't want to. We want teaching places with a future, we want real opportunities for young people who want to make a teaching in a business. [[Abg. Dolinschek: real chances at the Euroteam!]] We do not want to endanger the good reputation of Austria in relation to highly qualified professionals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your decisions, on the other hand, prove that you are not interested in qualifications. [[Abg. Wenitsch: Mrs. Colleague, we don't need a Euroteam!]] That also makes me doubt yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17889	Mr Neudeck is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17910	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Schwemlein has tabled a motion for a resolution on the accident in Kaprun on his own behalf and on behalf of his comrades. I think it would be pathetic if you, Mr Schwemlein, withdraw your motion for a resolution following the debate by the Secretary of State in which she presented the measures already taken. The emergency aid already caused by Generali Versicherung AG amounting to 50 million Schilling has already been presented in today's "Kronen Zeitung". I believe that the accident in Kaprun is too tragic to change political change. We will therefore not agree to your request to your transparent request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Binder: Go!]] – It is "enjoyable" if you find this occasion too to laugh – but only with you. The opposition always highlights the non-social will of the government. Now it would be little original to keep the debt levels to members of the last governments for a time. Therefore, another question to the social-democratic "culpators": When more than five years ago the compensation procedure against the "consumer" was opened, an anonymous billions of debts were always mentioned in this pleite. Did you then take care of more than 3,000 domestic creditors and 400 foreign creditors? The employees in the companies affected had to worry about their jobs for months because socialist-dominated banks acted as if they were always supporting the socialist giant "consumer". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You didn't care about both the small suppliers and their employees. The same is true for the red-dominated case of Bank Burgenland. ==References== On May 30 million Schillings were paid out to the Hom-Rusch companies by the Board of Directors Gassner against the objections of his colleagues. Where was your concern for the small savers who have to pay with their interest the inability of those responsible? – Payments to party-related newspapers and SPÖ organisations, which Mr Hom-Rusch is supposed to have made, were gladly accepted. I still miss your bad conscience in this matter. On behalf of Mr Eder: If he regrets the tenants after abolishing the public utility status of housing companies in public property, I wonder: Where was his regret so far? – Many non-profit housing cooperatives were more common than useful. Living projects have been advertised on the side in party newspapers and are certainly not free of charge, although these projects have long been rented and awarded. The high level of housing promotion in the international comparison does not help those who are really in need of housing, but is a pure support for SMEs. I do not want to take this criticism out of the ÖVP at all. But with it, a partner in the coalition is always preferable, who recognizes the mistakes of the past and wants to rerule Austria with positive proposals for the future. Two sentences to the SPÖ in the evening: The SPÖ is not about the protection of the tenants, but about the milk cows that have so much been given to the public. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'm of the opinion: Better to sell the apartments to the tenants now than to let them look – like the cooperatives of the "consumer" – into the empty cash registers!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e17966	The next speaker is Mrs Sophie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18007	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget also provides for substantial savings in the area of worker protection. However, I am very glad that Mr Bundesminister has already said in the Committee that there will not be a reduction in the contribution rate to accident insurance of 0.2 percent. I just hope that Mr Bartenstein will also be able to do so. There is a 50-point programme by Federal Minister Bartenstein, which he calls "reform of worker protection". From my point of view, however, there can be no reference to the protection of workers, because if the labour inspectorates are to register again in the future, then the Minister of Labour first and foremost protects the employers. This evasion of the Workers' Protection Act will again make it possible to use health-damaging chemicals because they are no longer tested by anyone. Workers will re-enter their activities without taking care to protect their health. Instead of further developing health and safety at work, the aim is to disassemble workers' protection and workers' protection, although the Federal Minister knows that there is an EU directive that requires all Member States to improve the living and working conditions of workers. Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last ten years alone, the number of accidents at work has been reduced from more than 170 000 per year to about 120 000. That means that 50 000 accidents at work are fewer in one year. Ladies and gentlemen, should this not encourage us to continue the positive path that has been taken in recent years? Safety and health at work are a profit for all those involved, but also for the entire economy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Putting on the spasm in this area is a totally wrong way. I would like to add a lot of things out of my daily work in the firms, in which these measures you propose will immediately lead to a deterioration in the protection of workers and workers. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Don't!]] I believe that if I add that you would have to be ashamed of your actions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's why you'd rather leave it!]] The Federal Minister wants people to stay in employment longer, and the Federal Chancellor is already talking about a further increase in the retirement age. But how do you imagine this, ladies and gentlemen, if precisely those conditions that are intended to help improve workers at work are worsened now by your measures, say the planned abatement in the protection of workers? – This program reminds of the Stone Age! Ladies and gentlemen! The same applies to the so-called working time structure, which is supposed to take account of the needs of the workers. However, I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, the government, the workers and job-seekers have little opportunity to address their needs in the event of a job start when flexible working hours are required. I'll tell you one more thing: These so-called flexible working hours produce pressure and stress, and that in the case of minimum earnings! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! As you set up the savings fund in the area of the Workers' Protection Act, we will not give the budget our approval to social democrats.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18069	Mr Delegater (S). — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18102	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Mr Neudeck, in his speech, wrongly claimed that the former Executive Director of Bank Burgenland, Mr Gassner, had been a red one. I'm actually correcting him: According to "NEWS" 48/2000, the former Managing Director Gassner has candidates for FCG in 1977 and is therefore to be attributed to the ÖVP, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18134	Mr Gahr is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18156	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much has already been said today, and I have been allowed to ask for or clarify some things at the end of the day. This Federal Government with the Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs Martin Bartenstein is taking an offensive course to redesign Austria's economic location and make it competitive for the future. The figures written since the start of the Federal Government speak for themselves: There is a high level of employment, low unemployment, full employment, low youth and age unemployment, and economic growth makes us look positively into the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At a time of budget consolidation, in which everyone has to make their contribution – I want to focus on the word "every" – the economy has done its homework. A good economic situation is a positive one. The economy has contributed and will continue to do so in the future. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Nevertheless, here and today I can make two remarks: It is actually interesting that Parliament does not criticise those who make a constructive contribution and in this sense pay something, but those who rather do little in terms of content and also in terms of financial resources and point their fingers at others. I don't understand that. I also have little understanding of protests, threats and polemics and I strongly reject the protest action planned for next week! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can only recommend the gentlemen of the opposition: Use your time, use your energy, get people away from the street and use your energy here in Parliament! It's better applied here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian economy needs no protests. It needs room to exist in international competition. We need framework conditions for the economy. Every person in the economy with his workers and employees is on the front line and must claim to be on the European market in the future. We need more performance, less administration, more fairness, less social abuse, more self-reliance and design, more innovation and vision, more offensive and no brakes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will have to invest in training, for example in innovation and communication technology. They are the key to new jobs and new success. [[Abg. Silhavy: He doesn't want to!]] We will help innovative, but also all other companies, our previously proven and future companies, and support them through optimal framework conditions. Today's jobs are not a guarantee for tomorrow, but visions and decisions are jobs of the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The aim must be to use our public resources efficiently and sustainablely to secure Austria's economic location and to make Austria a market place in Europe. Austria, a small country in small markets, a very big one in Europe – a vision as it could be for the future! Federal Minister Bartenstein and his team are grateful for this: The first time was very successful. We will, with social understanding and joy of decision, provide the economic course as we are here in Parliament, with all the strengths and weaknesses. But I can conclude by saying: This Federal Government is a guarantee of success for Austria's future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18229	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18251	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Government was praised in February of this year. It has begun to rerule Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To re-government means to make a correction, a correction with a view to significantly reducing the re-indebtedness of the federal government and ultimately bringing about a zero deficit, i.e. no more debt. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, nine months have passed now, and the government is well on its way to achieve this goal. I would also like to support this with some examples. This year, the year 2000, new debt will be reduced to around 54.6 billion schilling and 2.0 percent of GDP. In the 2001 draft budget, which we are currently dealing with, re-indebtedness is reduced to around 32.8 billion schilling and 1.1 percent of GDP. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In a few months, in March 2001, the 2002 budget will be negotiated here in Parliament. It will be a milestone in Austria's budget policy: After 30 years, it will succeed in re-indebtedness to zero! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No milestones! These are gallstones!]] The Federal Government has also presented a budget programme for the period up to 2003, from which I would like to mention three points. Firstly, the reduction of debt – i.e. no new debt and a significant reduction in interest rate services. Secondly, the sustainable restructuring of the state budget, sustainable restructuring through structural measures, in order to ultimately achieve savings, especially in the expenditure of the individual departments. State Secretary Finz has repeatedly pointed out that through integrated standard software, the SAP programme, the conditions for forward-looking accounting are introduced and created. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The third The area is the increased funding in the field of research and technology and the increase in the research rate to 2.5 percent by 2003. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Staff management, structural change measures – what is the current situation? – Currently, some 2,000 employees are involved in managing 180 000 staff, and about one million travel bills are processed per year. The aim of this process is to create a comprehensive, continuous IT-supported personnel management. The benefits or benefits of this project are first of all personnel controlling at federal and regional level, national synergies, uniformly designed solutions, flexibility in adapting and also the basis for a cost-setting bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This SAP project is an important prerequisite for achieving sustainable budget consolidation as quickly as possible. Sustainable budget consolidation ensures our economic location and high employment. However, sustainable budget consolidation also gives us the necessary scope and thus the prerequisite for reducing the additional wage costs. The reduction of additional wage costs naturally promotes the motivation and performance of our companies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We will be very pleased to vote in favour of the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18312	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the IX advisory group of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes capital 63 and 64 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of Supplements. For that, Deputies have Dr. Drinkl, Mag. Trattner and comrades submit an amendment which refers to some of the financial approaches set out in Chapter 64, to the amendment of the designation of expenditure and revenue paragraphs 6450 and the resulting changes to the sum amounts. Since only this one request is made, I would like to refer to the Advisory Group IX – which includes Chapters 63 and 64 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements – in the version of the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr. Drinkl, Mag. Trattner and comrades vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a corresponding sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group IX of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schwemlein and Mr Comrades on the programme to deal with the accident in Kaprun. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The swam is not here at all!]] The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-29-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00048_d7e18361	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 331/A to 333/A. Question No 1587/J to 1604/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 30. In November 2000, 9 a.m., with the following agenda: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (310 and 310 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2001 and Investments (370 of the Supplements). Consultation Group VI: Education and culture, science; Advisory Group III: Outwards. There is no Question Time at this part-session. This meeting is closed.
