ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1952	Ladies and gentlemen! I can cordially invite you to take the places, and I will open the 9th. National Council meeting for Wednesday, 9. February, 9 o'clock. I very much welcome the President-in-Office of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Thomas Klestil, who is in our midst. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I'm allowed to announce that Deputies Dr. Rada, Mag. Climate and Second President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is apologised as an apologies for today's session. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e1992	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may, according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the written communication distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2090	I declare the following: Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades requested that the written question put before the entry into the agenda, 332/J, by Mr Hostasch and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs concerning massive deterioration for workers, pensioners and socially weak, be dealt with urgently by the FPÖVP tax package in the field of pensions and statutory health insurance. Under the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be called today at 3 p.m. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2119	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration of today's debate as follows: A 10 hour block period has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 170 minutes, liberals and ÖVP each 160 as well as green 110 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] Mr Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2149	Mr President. A speaking time of 195 minutes has been agreed, resulting from the speaking time agreement on the 'Vienna hours', and I ask you to deny that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2182	Yeah, he's right. This is the regulation of club directors, which has not yet been dealt with in the presidential conference. But there is consensus about this speaking time. – Please be patient; I just have to add whether the sum of the times that I have just mentioned are actually 600 minutes. - That's right. Then I propose to the National Council for a total speaking time of 10 "Vienna hours": SPÖ 195 minutes, ÖVP and Freeman per 145 minutes and the Green Group 115 minutes. The last decision on this is to be made by the House. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then the speaking times are fixed in such a way. Declaration by the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2212	We now come to the only item on the agenda: Declaration by the Federal Government. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I can now give Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselda's speech on the declaration of government. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e2242	High house! Mr President. Mr President! Mr. Old Presidents! I welcome you very much. This speech is addressed to you, the Austrians, our partners in Europe and all over the world. This speech, of course, is also addressed to the critics of the last few days. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This speech is the first opportunity of this government to comment and say what we stand for and what we will do. With the year 2000, a new era began, and we Austrians can start at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== There have never been such good conditions for our country. We are economically strong and wealthy. Democracy is on a solid foundation, and we can offer high social security to citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is important because every democratic and open society needs secure conditions, and Austria is a stable democracy. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, yes!]] The Republic of Austria has risen from very difficult beginnings after the Second World War to an economic model country. The Austrians have made blossoming through their zeal and commitment to this country. Today, the economy benefits from its opportunities in Europe and worldwide. Our unemployment rate is falling and is one of the lowest in all of Europe. There have never been as many people working in Austria as they do today. The forecasts for growth are favourable and prices are stable as never before. Our country is increasingly learning to meet the new demands of the world economy. Our employees are well trained and appreciated worldwide. This is our economic success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria today is a stable democracy. Our community works; our democratic maturity is expressed not least by high electoral participations – compared to other countries. Despite the demonstrations these days, radical developments, as they are on the agenda in many other countries, are as rare in the history of the Second Republic as major strikes or conflicts with minorities. Our social consensus to reject polarisation and the conviction that democratic dialogue leads to the best solutions are the soil on which Austria has grown well. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the SPÖ Members.]] And this is our democratic success balance. [[New applause with the ÖVP, the liberals and with the SPÖ representatives.]] It is, of course, a common balance sheet, a balance sheet that I do not want to take for any parties. It is a common ground that we have worked out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our country is also characterised by living solidarity. In its recent history, Austria has repeatedly demonstrated its social conscience in dealing with weaker, helpless, politically persecuted and victims of war and expulsion and has implemented human rights. Austria has always been an open country – and it will remain in the future. After our great willingness to welcome in the fifties and 1960s, we took on great humanitarian responsibility for Hungary and the Czechs and Slovaks, later during the war rights in Poland, even in the nineties during the wars in south-eastern Europe, and more than in other countries, people in our country have opened doors to refugees. Not just that: Also, Austrians – even in times when we were not as good as today – shared their own financial resources in natural solidarity with those seeking help. Pope John Paul II referred to Austria’s willingness to donate as an example. Austria is characterised by the highest humanitarian standards. After the Second World War, the Republic of Austria has never violated political, democratic or humanitarian principles. And no one should doubt that we are committed to believing tolerance, openness and respect for human rights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are and remain irrevocable elements of our self-understanding. The Austrians also carry out their duties within the generation contract. This is the solidarity between young and old, which has been living for decades. We have high standards of age care, and we have a really well-functioning health and care system in the international comparison. Of course, we must never forget that there is still poverty in our country, but we still know that so many of us have never lived in the history of Austria in prosperity and social security. This is our social, common track record. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is not patriotic dyery, but the realistic description of the state of our Republic at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References== This Austria – I say this with all the clarity – has not changed in recent days. However, some domestic and foreign observers have changed their perspective on our country; Austria must face allegations and fears with all openness. Due to demonstrations and media coverage, many Austrians suddenly have the impression that the world sees us quite differently than we see ourselves – perhaps also want to see ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, yes, self-image and foreign image!]] Our European partners and other countries are taking the lead in the government participation of the Freedom Party. Out of 15 EU Member States, 14 decided to freeze bilateral contacts with Austria's partner country. – Hardness, extent, speed of these measures and the way in which they are done have shocked Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Much of what is now being reported about Austria is not justified. Much is presented indistinctly. And I am against this overly critical criticism: All parties represented in this House are on the fundamental values of democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I do not want to hide that there is a problem of words, of language, of tone. It is important for all of us to have much more sensitivity in our statements in the future and to show more sensitivity to others. And everyone has to and should start with themselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unfortunately, the criticism of foreign countries has so far been based on these words – and not on better deeds. Ladies and gentlemen! It is time to convince the skeptics in Germany and abroad by a policy of right actions and the right words. I urge all the domestic critics and also the European and transatlantic partners to reconsider their prejudices and preconceived opinions in the light of Austrian reality. I expect a disarmament in words, fairness in the assessment and return to the proportionality of political actions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The bilateral measures of the 14 countries are not covered either in the spirit or in the text of the European Treaties. Of course, we accept when Europeans are worried. Many Austrians are also insecure and are afraid of the new. You don't know exactly what's coming. I take these fears, these concerns and honest criticisms very seriously. This is a task for me and my team to increase awareness and dialogue. We must respond to prejudices with comprehensive information and face prejudices with honest dialogue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why we have, of course, also defined this in a joint declaration on the government programme, and this preamble, properly understood, could also be an offer for a new basic social consensus. High house! At the beginning of this new century, the political landscape in Austria has also changed: ==References====External links== It was decided on a change in October. For the first time, there are three nearly the same big parties in our country. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Two of them have reached a common alliance. – Peaceable change must be possible in democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The basic understanding of parliamentary democracy is to recognise the results of the elections. The change of power that took place in these days is legitimate. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since the Socialists excluded coalition talks with the Freedom Party and had not established a stable government on their own, new elections would have been inevitable in the foreseeable future. That is why the Austrian People's Party has accepted the SPÖ's invitation to a new government, and we have worked seriously to put the previous alliance on a new basis. [[Call the SPÖ: Really not at all!]] This attempt, however, has failed. In order not to endanger the governance of our country – the only alternative would have been the resolution of the newly and democratically elected National Council – the ÖVP has entered into negotiations with the liberals and concluded a coalition agreement after the termination of the talks by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But you would not have trusted that!]] On the basis of this joint programme by ÖVP and the Freeman, President Dr. Thomas Klestil commissioned me to lead this government and, on my proposal, praised this new government. [[Call the SPÖ:No government education order, please!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will fill out this office of the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria with the highest sensitivity and responsibility to the people in that country, because this government has a mandate from the people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This government of ÖVP and FPÖ has a majority with 104 mandates and therefore a solid holding in the National Council. And this support is also necessary in order to implement those reforms and legislative measures that are decisive for Austria in the future. High house! We face real challenges. Our local world is turning into a global society, and if we want to keep up with it internationally and continue the Austrian success story, we have to renew a lot. Even if at the beginning of my speech I have drawn a very positive picture of the situation of Austria: There will be a need for consistent reform steps in order to preserve the good in the future, but also to allow and shape the necessary new. Many rigid structures need to be broken down. We need fewer regulations and more freedom. The state must be narrower, more efficient and closer to its citizens. We want to free the economy from bureaucratic shackles, abolish propors and party book economy, and give more co-decision to people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Like in Lower Austria!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] We want an Austria that benefits its opportunities for citizens actively, self-confidence and forward-looking. We will re-rule Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] This Federal Government has developed a renewal programme for Austria to preserve prosperity, open up future opportunities and guarantee social security. Our policy guidelines are: More courage to the future – instead of clamps on the Althergebrachten! More freedom – instead of a state strike! More self-reliance – instead of foresight from above! More recognition of the individual performance – instead of equalizing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Did the Haider write you that?]] Austria's re-government is called: Europe is expanding and helping shape the world. Our government programme contains a strong commitment to Europe and to the basic values of the new Europe. We are Austrians and Europeans – and are proud of it. This has also been expressed by the Austrian population five years ago with the highest support for EU accession, which has ever been achieved in a Member State. There is no alternative to the path of integration into the European Union! Participation in the European Monetary Union was the last major step. In less than two years, we will be able to pay with the euro anywhere in Europe – from Lisbon to Copenhagen. Austria now has such a great historic opportunity through the enlargement of the European Union. Our country is geographically located in the intersection between East and West. Our neighbours, with whom a common, long and rich history connects us, now return to the common home after a transitional period – after 40 years of communist dictatorship and oppression – to Europe. We want you to join us in our common Europe. Only that ensures peace and stability. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! EU enlargement brings us both economic benefits and new social and cultural enrichments. Europe must be actively involved in the peace, stability and security project. The accession of the candidates is in our own interest. Reasonable transitional arrangements will ensure that there is no hardship or competitive disadvantage for Austria. We will consistently address Austrian concerns for the protection of jobs, agriculture, the environment. We will be very careful to ensure that nuclear power plants do not become a threat to our population. Within the European Union, we will force institutional and democratic reform. It is about ensuring the decision-making and action capacity of the future larger state community. We will also ensure that the European Union's dynamics are not inhibited by bureaucracy or administrative barriers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, is committed to a common security and defence policy. Peace in Europe is our highest commitment. We therefore support the creation of a European peace and defence community. Austria will participate in a common European security system, including a guarantee of assistance. We want to deepen our relations with NATO in order to keep the possibility of future membership open. [[Abg. Who wants that? The Austrian people?]] However, the Austrian people will ultimately decide on the further development of Austrian security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will also strengthen our commitment within the United Nations and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Austria will act decisively, as before, for disarmament, arms control and against the spread of nuclear weapons. Participation in international humanitarian and solidarity actions is of course for us. It is the responsibility of a rich and economically developed country to contribute not only to the relief of the need with us, but also to the relief of distress and misery in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! Austria needs a stable budget. Why is the stability of the state budget the core task of this federal government? – Because the debts of today are the taxes of tomorrow and because we have the obligation to hand over an orderly house to our children. No one can spend more than he takes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A balanced federal budget is not least a commitment towards Europe and the single currency, the euro. We therefore want to reduce the budget deficit to 1.5 percent of the gross domestic product by 2005. Measures will largely be made through savings, and we start with ourselves: We will significantly reduce our costs of discretionary expenditure, public relations and representation. Public administration needs to become more efficient, slimmer, more economical and innovative in order to make the taxpayers' money better and more responsible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am well aware that it will not be easy to achieve this goal. Much of what is seen by some today as a threat must lead to a good result through dialogue and persuasion on both sides – the affected and the government. Performance must be an important part of a modern public administration. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The budget will be relieved in a sustainable manner. Each 15. Posts in the Federal Service – except for the education sector – are saved. Significant disseminations, such as universities, are being carried out. Staff representatives and social partners are to negotiate reasonable pay rounds and new annual work models. But to the style of this new government it is also to say openly that we will not get out without new revenue. It will be necessary to increase tobacco tax, increase the electricity tax by 10 sizes per kilowatt hour and adjust the motor insurance tax. We need to increase truck tolls and vignette prices in order to expand and modernise the infrastructure of our roads and motorways. All in all, however, we want to relieve and not burden citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let's not forget. The tax and family reform has been bringing about since 1. In January of each year, each household has an average income of around 10 000 S per year. In addition, by reducing rents and by liberalising the electricity market, and thus reducing electricity prices, we want to further increase family and household incomes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria is re-governmentd, but it also means developing the management state towards the citizen and the state of performance. For many years – not to say: For decades – a reorganisation of the Federal Ministries will be discussed, and in fact it has never really succeeded. As one of its first measures, the new Federal Government will make a fairly comprehensive adjustment of ministerial competences. Tasks will be summarized so that better administrative processes can be made possible and policy decisions can be implemented efficiently. For the first time since 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, there has now been an integrated Ministry of Education! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For the first time at all, there is a long-required Ministry of Infrastructure, in which railways, roads, waterways, telephones are summarized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have also met a long-standing demand for a summary of research and technology in one hand. For the first time, the economic and labour world is no longer competitive with each other, but is combined into a sphere of responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The concerns of all generations, including topics such as pension and health insurance, will be addressed in a section in the future. And the artists of Austria have for the first time one of your competent contacts in the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a ministry less. Each Secretary of State is given a responsibility; for the first time, tourism has its own State Secretary, which must not be underestimated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The State must consistently separate itself from activities and costs other than its core tasks. This is why a highly ambitious privatisation project is set out in the government programme. State enterprises must become marketable. The ÖIAG is therefore commissioned to develop as soon as possible a professional privatisation concept for state printing, Dorotheum, Printmedia, Vienna Airport, P.S.K., Telekom and Austria tobacco and to sell the federal shares. This should be done professionally and politically. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I also say very clearly: The taxpayer may never be taxed again. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Privatisation proceeds will therefore not only be used to eliminate debt, but also to invest in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria must learn from its "State Lights" past. In future, no tax schilling can be invested in companies where the market offers better and more economical solutions. The principles of economic freedom laid down in the Constitution are our guiding principle for the design of economic life. This is also set in a separate "Charter of Economic Freedom". But to re-rule is also to say: Strengthen democracy and exercise responsibility. High house! This federal government is committed to more co-determination and more rights for citizens. Greater legal certainty, protection for minorities, an objective staff policy in the public service are the objectives we will pursue consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If popular desires reach more than 15 percent of the voters in the future and are not treated accordingly by the National Council, then there will be a referendum in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this way citizens' concerns can be brought into the political debate even more directly. In addition, as in many other European countries, we will introduce the choice of letters and extend the rights of the public prosecutors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As far as the future of the boys is concerned, we must also give them something very essential: the knowledge about the history of our country. Austria's past requires a particularly alert and critical debate and the necessary sensitivity to the structures and mechanisms of the National Socialist system of injustice. This knowledge and sensitivity must be passed on to future generations as a reminder of the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Some very important steps have already been taken in recent years. In the light of the interim report of the Austrian Historical Commission, the Federal Government is now dealing with the issue of the rapid compensation of former Nazi forced workers, taking into account the responsibility of the companies concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The new Federal Government will insist that the former Nazi forced workers, who already belong to an old age group, where there is an urgent need for rapid assistance, come to their right. I have received the promise yesterday – that is not in the text, but I would like to inform the House at this point – that as a new government representative who will take full and competent care of these issues, fully equipped with an infrastructure in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, fully supported by all the members of this Federal Government, the former governor or president of the Austrian National Bank, Maria Schaumayer. It will do so well and with the necessary sensitivity, and I very much ask for cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, the Federal Government will also work to resolve the remaining open questions. While it is only after the final report of the Historical Commission that all the facts will be on the table as to how this Republic has dealt with the assets robbed by the Nazis after the war and to what extent the measures taken were sufficient, in the interests of the victims still alive, that is to say, the survivors of the Holocaust, who were not or were insufficiently covered by the previous measures and who are now living in difficult financial conditions, will be able to provide rapid assistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] .. Re-government means that the cooperation of federal, state and local authorities is designed in a modern way. Europe has put the historical role of the federal, state and local authorities on a new basis and pursues the goal of giving the regions new scope for action and design. In times of global competition, the immediate environment and its region are becoming increasingly important for people. Therefore, the votes of the countries and regions need to be heard better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The communities are the place where citizens find their homes. That is why the preservation and strengthening of the financial strength of the communities is a special concern for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Unnecessary and expensive double-tracks must be eliminated. The Federal Council is being reformed, with the aim of upgrading this important institution for the necessary federalism in Austria into a genuine chamber of countries. High house! New governance means creating social justice. Austria needs a powerful, just and effective social system that protects and promotes the disadvantaged and the needy. However, the abuse of state transfers is unsocial and unolidarian and must be stopped consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The protection and further development of our social system is one of our most urgent tasks: Anyone who needs social benefits should receive them quickly, safely and to a sufficient degree. It is important to find an improved distribution of tasks between private and state within the proven social system. We want to establish a powerful and living welfare society next to the welfare state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Making a responsible policy means creating a fair and secure future for our children. The safeguarding of old-age care must go beyond the horizon of today's pension benefits with a wide-ranging view of the next generations. The Federal Government will develop a flexible, modern and manageable pension system based on a system based on three pillars. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This three-pillar model means that we have a strong and stable legal, state pension insurance, in addition to an operating pension model that I will talk about later on, and the individual provision through our own savings for your own evening of life. Lifetime declines, life expectancy increases. – This is a very positive development, but because we see this development so positively, we need to adapt our pension system to the changed conditions. Austria is now one of the countries with the lowest retirement age, especially in the early years. The retirement age has already been increased across Europe. There should actually be consensus on the need for adjustment in Austria, because the SPÖ also proposed the need to adjust and increase the retirement age by two years in early pensions in the negotiations with the SPÖ. In order to avoid cases of social hardship as far as possible, the increase is to take place gradually by two months, until 18 months have finally been reached. Long insurance periods remain excluded from the increase, and at the same time a bonus malus system is agreed in order not to bring the successful and the beneficiaries to their well-acquired rights. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For us, an active labour market policy has a very special role to play. The new Federal Government will consistently combat unemployment. We see the value of work also in the unfolding of the personality of man according to his dignity. All stakeholders in this country are called upon to take action to open up new opportunities for younger people in the labour market, but also to give older workers the opportunity to stay longer in the work process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will adapt labour law and social protection functions to new developments in working life, and we also want to be a step-maker in the effective removal of labour market problems in the European Union. In order to increase mobility in the working world and facilitate professional change, a new model will be created. For today there is a great injustice: Not even every second receives a finish in the course of his working life – others, on the other hand, receive several finishes. In this new, fair, fair model based on a pension fund scheme, the employee will be able to determine for himself whether he will be able to save his entitlements to improve his future pension or, in the event of termination, to pay it in the form of a larger amount. This new model corresponds to the modern working world: It is more powerful and just – both for employers and for employees. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] More fairness and better service are the guidelines of our social policy projects. For me, for example, more fairness means that in the event of illness and in the event of service prevention, there will be the same payment or insurance for employees and workers. Better service means that in the future there will only be a single social service agency at the district level. High house! A modern labour market service must be much, much more than the management of unemployment. The Federal Government has set itself the goal of better organising access to the labour market for job-seekers. We want the reduction of barriers to private employment intermediaries and a consistent modernisation and market orientation of the labour market service so that the unemployed can find work faster and more successfully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to integrate the long-term unemployed more quickly into a meaningful work process, they should be able to be used as a compulsory activity in the non-profit sector. [[Abg. Oils: Forced work!]] Controlling is natural in a modern company. We want to use this instrument in the administration in order to guarantee the effectiveness of political decisions and to be able to counter misdevelopments in good time. Social insurance currently accounts for around 10 billion schilling of administrative costs. There are, of course, savings possible. I know something has already been started, but there is still a lot to do. Modernity is also required in social security, and the chip card, which is suitable as an instrument of diverse information and is successfully used in other countries, is intended to replace the cost-intensive and old-fashioned health card bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Modernity has to move in here as well. Moderate self retention will only exist there – I am telling those who are already painting the billions on the wall and fear themselves above all – where there is no more social weakness. Nor are they centrally or politically ordered, but the health insurance companies themselves – and hence the social partners – decide, responsible and apply to hospital stays. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Rerule, means not to think in legislative periods, but for the next generations. The hub of generation solidarity is the family for us. It therefore also needs our very special support. Not only the care of the children, but also the care of the older generation is becoming increasingly important. We will therefore promote education and training for caregivers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We acknowledge that the services provided by the families for society are more conceptual and material. No one wants and is allowed to push women back to the stove. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] On the contrary: We want to strengthen women's freedom of choice. The overwhelming majority of women are working today. Each woman should be free to decide whether she is out of the work process for some time after the birth of her child. If she does this and does the so important task of child rearing, it is our concern to support them financially and especially those who are socially weaker and today have no claim to accept the same claim – that is, farmers, housewives, students. [[Congratulations and Bravo!-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] We know that this social policy measure entails additional costs, but this new form of childcare allowance is intended to facilitate child rearing and to make it materially independent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we are aware that child care is particularly valuable until the third year of life. We will therefore clearly welcome the families with an extension of another 12 months in the case of a division of the karenz age. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we have been for a partner – mostly for the mothers – 18 months of karenz time and six months for the other partner, that will now be 24 months and 12 months for the partner. The demand for two years of continuous leave for a partner is thus fully fulfilled and made possible for the partner for the third year. This is a world-wide unique system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, we will pay the karenz money from the 1st century onwards. In January 2002, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations The aim of the increase is to make a part of the pension insurance possible in full. In addition, the ban on employment in the insurance sector will be removed in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course I know that money alone is not enough – really not enough! - raising a child. The most diverse offers for childcare must also be available. To this end, the Federal Government, especially the countries and communities, will make their contributions. I also know, of course, that women's policy is not family policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The legal equality of women in Austria has long been fulfilled, but the real disadvantage remains to this day. We are therefore committed to the equal partnership between men and women. I have always been committed to promoting women in public life. [[Call the SPÖ:Haha!]] This federal government will support equality between men and women at all levels. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have set out concrete measures to promote women and girls in the school and university sectors. Special assistance is provided for business founders. We will make it easier for women to get back into work, to force the possibility of teleworking and to promote flexible working hours. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] High house! The Federal Government is committed to tolerance, openness and respect for human rights. These are the incorruptible cornerstones of our democracy. This basic humanitarian policy is set out in the preamble to the government programme. Asylum law is guaranteed in Austria. This has always been the case and will remain the same in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] In the case of new immigration, integration and family integration are a priority. [[Abg. Oillinger: Does not apply to seasonal workers!]] Better integration is a challenge that policy cannot solve alone. Prejudice and fear of contact must be reduced. This is a prerequisite for each individual's willingness to deal openly with this issue. The Federal Government will facilitate this process. We will offer better assistance and numerous measures to ensure peaceful living together of people of different origin. Language promotion is to be extended in kindergartens and schools so that the first integration barrier – the other, the foreign language – can be reduced as quickly as possible. New governance means creating the greatest possible security. In the field of internal security, we focus on the fight against organised crime, drug crime, tow-freeness. Due to its geographical situation, Austria can make a particularly valuable contribution to combating organised crime structures. We create the legal basis for modern investigation methods. In order to curb the towing unbeing, there will be a consistent persecution and more severe punishment. We will exploit the legal possibilities for combating drug trafficking and will take decisive action against any form of drug crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A uniform training concept will make work easier for our executives. But also the Austrian federal army, ladies and gentlemen, is an indispensable, necessary element to guarantee peace, stability and freedom in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austria needs a modern and fully equipped federal army. An expert commission will develop the basis for the decision-making of a volunteer army with a military component and a voluntary civil service. The Austrian Federal Army must be equipped as best as possible for disaster aid, international solidarity and assistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The acquisition and cost-effective acquisition of aircraft for airspace surveillance is beyond dispute. The financial resources must be made available for this purpose. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To re-rule, that is to say, to pursue consistent competition and location policies. Austria is an export-oriented country, and our economy is in the international competition. Therefore, it is an important economic policy decision of the Federal Government to reduce the additional labour costs in a sustainable way in order to relieve and secure jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This includes numerous measures: The aliquotation of the holiday, the withdrawal of the paid post search in the case of self-announcement by workers, the reduction of contributions to insolvency funds, accident and unemployment insurance in the event of maintenance of benefits. By the end of the legislative period, a total reduction in the cost of jobs of up to 15 billion schilling will be achieved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the attractiveness of the site is also supported by a modern tax policy. In addition to the medium-term reduction in the tax rate, it is important to simplify the system with all the complexity of modern economic life, simplify the tax collection and improve legal protection. It is also clear, however, that tax policy should support social policy concerns in the context of budgetary possibilities, for example through increased incentives for pension provision, new ways of decommissioning support for art and culture, but also through new conditions for the institutions of civil society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A new company law must create simplifications for current professional rights such as tax advisors, lawyers and doctors. It is intended to facilitate a "second chance" for entrepreneurs who have not been able to achieve a business idea. Indeed, bankruptcy must no longer mean social espionage. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We need simple and easy access to self-employment through comprehensive reforms of corporate law and through central contact points for all bureaucratic requirements. All the institutions are called upon to create an optimal environment for new businesses and new jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another shift in liberalisation in opening hours, working time law and in electricity and gas markets is intended to enable a flexible, customer-oriented and successful economy. Fair competition reduces prices for consumers. We need to expand and modernise our infrastructure in order to ensure optimal connection between the economic location on the road, rail, on the water, air and along the data and energy networks, as this is one of the most crucial location factors for the future. The improvement of antitrust rights, the creation of a long-term modern, uniform operating rights will be implemented as soon as possible. We make a clear commitment to a consistent withdrawal of politics from the economy and from the markets. This also means liberalising the capital market and depoliticising the supervisory councils of close-to-state enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As provided by law, the speculation tax will be suspended until October 2001, and its abolition will also be checked. More operational co-determination rather than rigid over-companying arrangements should enable flexibility in economic locations and thus make it possible to adapt quickly to the rapidly changing conditions of the market. Ladies and gentlemen! The richness of Austria is also and above all in the beauty of our country. We therefore want to preserve natural areas, strengthen rural areas and ensure sustainable and competitive agriculture. Support for farmers must be socially fair and effective and secure. In order to ensure the best possible conditions for farmers and create fair conditions of competition, we aim to reduce the price of agricultural resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order for the company to open up new markets for the future, the Federal Government will support investments in renewable raw materials, such as the biodiesel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order for rural areas, as well as tourism, to obtain the workforce it needs, a non-bureaucratic arrangement for seasonal and harvest workers will come. At European level, the aim is to ensure the optimal implementation of Agenda 2000 and to develop EU agricultural policy together with our European partners. The basis of Austrian environmental policy is the guiding principle of the eco-social market economy. Since pollutants and environmental risks do not have any limits, environmental policy must be carried out far beyond the national borders. Austria has long had a pioneering role in this regard in Europe. We will continue to take measures to reduce pollutants in fuels and ozone precursors, for example by promoting new engine technologies. This drive for environmental technologies, renewables and energy efficiency is not only needed to improve the environmental situation, but also a very important contribution to Austria's development in this field as the international market and technology leader. As for genetic engineering, we will continue the proven course of careful evaluation of products and new developments so that there is no danger for Austrian consumers. Rerule, that means: Education as a raw material of the 21st century. ==References====External links== A state that invests in education, in "brain-power", secures the life and work opportunities of people and strengthens the economy. We will therefore devote ourselves to ensuring the quality and further development of education. Resources for education and science must be used efficiently to enable further internationalisation and a technology offensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Our youth is to be given the prerequisites for improving their future employment opportunities through particularly good foreign language communication and a computer billion. Qualified employees, skilled workers, graduates of higher and middle schools are one of the greatest strengths in the Austrian economy. That is why this new Federal Government sets itself the clear goal, together with the young people in teaching professions and together with the companies and schools, of ensuring the best possible training. We want to deal with the lifetime and training of young people carefully and fully acknowledge already acquired knowledge for further training. The importance of lifelong learning for professional safety and development is becoming increasingly important. That is why we want to promote the adult and further education sector with a comprehensive government offensive and support innovative forms of further training in new fields. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our universities provide internationally recognised services at the highest level. We want to lead them to a genuine independence with multi-annual contracts. In future, they will be able to make their budget and staff completely independent. With a modern, performance-oriented service law, we want to offer young academics additional opportunities and promote mobility between professional fields. One of the most important innovations – perhaps even the most important innovation – in recent years in education policy has been the development of vocational colleges. Our goal – an ambitious goal – is that in the future one third of all first-school students will study at a university. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Through a comprehensive structural reform and through reforms in the range of studies and the use of modern technologies, we want to make effective progress in reducing the duration of the studies. Administrative simplifications, including de-bureaucratisations, are intended to help students save time. World-class research and excellence technology are the basis for innovation and success in the markets of tomorrow. We have therefore set the goal – also an ambitious goal, but an achievable one – to increase the research rate to 2.5 percent of national income by 2005. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The establishment of a Research and Technology Development Council will enable us to define national research priorities and stimulate economic development effects. High house! Rerule, that means: Art and culture did not take place. Education, science and culture create the foundations for our future. A common goal for these areas is diversity and autonomy, openness and internationalism. Art and culture have always had a special importance with us. We confess to freedom, to the full freedom of art. No one has to be afraid of being persecuted because of his mind or because of his work. [[Call the SPÖ: That would be even more beautiful!]] Artists do not need political forethought, but stimulating framework conditions for their creation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is a matter of course!]] We therefore want to make cultural work better planable and safer through multi-annual funding contracts with regular evaluation and to make regional distribution more balanced – that is also important – of art promotion. An Austrian National Foundation is planned to provide better protection, care and presentation of the Austrian cultural heritage. Together with the digitization of the cultural heritage of Austria and the modernisation of our museums, art and culture will be made accessible to a wider audience. We want to set architectural priorities in residential construction and in public buildings. Art and culture belong to all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] In our efforts to elaborate and present Austria's history and its consequences for the present and future, we want to bring together the concepts – very interesting concepts – for a "house of history of the Republic of Austria" and a "house of tolerance". As a topic of the future in the cultural field, we see the strengthening of the film location in Austria and the provision of risk capital for Austria's creative economy. We will finally introduce the necessary artistic social security and enforce the tax deductibility of art and cultural investments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Liberalisation is also essential in the media sector. For this we will quickly and effectively create the legal framework conditions. In order to take account of technological developments in the media, there will be an independent telecommunications and information technology institution. It will also distribute all technical licenses and licenses for private and private television throughout the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Re-government means: promote health and ensure medical quality. In order to maintain the quality of health care and to take rapid account of new medical knowledge, we also want to make our health system "fit" for the requirements of the future. We will ensure that there is equal access for all citizens to all medical services and that patient rights are strengthened. A powerful health system is also included in the information of patients on medical services. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This means creating transparency and awareness of costs for the benefits of social health insurance. In order to ensure that Austria's patients are optimally cared for, there should be a mandatory quality assurance system for the entire health care system and be increased in the basic medical training of the patient's relationship. In order to further develop the position in international research, research priorities are to be developed. In order to reduce health risks and related costs as far as possible, a national health promotion and prevention plan is being developed. More preventive medicine creates better quality of life! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why the Federal Government is also a particular concern to promote sports in Austria. More sports offers are provided for children and young people. In the future, movement education will be anchored in the kindergarten. High house! We want to start this government programme with a courageous renewal project for Austria. [[Members of the Greens shall each keep a key covenant up to date, which they shall noiseily shake.]] We want to re-rule Austria in order to create the best conditions for all Austrians for their future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (pointing to the Green bank series) Mr President!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Yes, our program is the key to the right future! [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the ÖVP. – Bravo! call at the ÖVP.]] All citizens have the right to a government that not only manages but also actively shapes the future. [[Abg. Oillinger:... Storage chamber!]] Therefore, we want to address the problems openly, to develop correct solutions and to implement measures quickly. We need a new political culture of timely and open activities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To re-rule, that is to say, to seek dialogue with the citizens and all stakeholders in the country. Re-government means: To make policy more transparent and controllable. A living democracy lives on the balance between government and opposition. I would like to invite you specifically to this dialogue. In the discussion of the political concepts and in the contest of our arguments, I believe, the best solutions for our country are created. The culture of our common policy will also be measured by how we introduce a new style in the debates here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Re-government means that together – government, government parties and opposition parties – we must strive for a political culture that seeks the constructive and the common in the discussion, which puts the welfare of the state ahead of the well-being of the people or parties and which meets our responsibility for the future of Austria. [[Call the SPÖ:Haha!]] We're ready to do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3197	I would like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for his statement. These are now being discussed. That is to say, we are going into the debate on the Government Declaration. We have already set the overall speaking times before the Government Declaration. The individual speaking time is up to 20 minutes per speaker. The first speaker is Mr Peter Kostelka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3236	Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Federal Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The expectations in this declaration of government were great – the disappointment is no less! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] This declaration of government is missing concreteness where clarity would have been necessary. It is contradictory, it is not very serious, and it is a testimony of insolence and sorrow. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is Mr. Klima?]] I'll explain this to you: Wherever you, ladies and gentlemen, could have taken fears in the population – in the area of pensions, self-retaining in health insurance, in labour market policy – you have remained in plausible, superficial statements. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: There we took her!]] But where it is about your client policy, you were very concrete. – This is the first disappointment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second disappointment is contradiction. They declare that you will ensure that social benefits are met. - Good. We are in favour of such a discussion. What makes me very thoughtful in this context, however, is the fact that you know exactly how much this will bring on the budget. The measures are not yet known to you, but the savings potential of 3 million schilling, which you have already defined. [[Abg. Auer: 3 million?]] That is why you are only concerned with one thing, ladies and gentlemen, about social reduction. You will hear this word more often! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also spoke of contradiction: In my view, it is contrary to me to ensure that social benefits are met, but at the same time to take a huge amount of casting capacity and to pay benefits to those whom they obviously do not need – so in the case of karenz, as in the cancellation of the social team in the case of the multi-children's allowance, as well as in the service check and a number of other benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! That is contradiction, which basically has only one cause, namely your client policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I said, "unserious" – and I stand by it –: On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Freedom Party, it is if you courageously acknowledge those goals of Maastricht which are the applicable EU law. That's not an objective you could escape! That's what EU law says! But You do not say a word about how you want to achieve a reduction in budget debt to 1.5 percent by 2005. This answer will be given to you today and to the next plenary sessions! [[Abg. Young: The Edellinger Guilts!]] Inadequateness and sadness are to be noted in the context of foreign reactions. It is worth reading the sentence: Austria has been shocked by the hardness, extent and speed of action and the nature of the action. – That’s quite right, but, ladies and gentlemen, how do you react? – The only answer in this context is that you are playing on time. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You did it!]] Is it really foreign policy, then, if one locks us the front door, trying to get into the house sometime through the back door? [[Abg. Edlinger: Underground!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Underground!]] – This is not our view of European policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in your speech, Mr President-in-Office, there are also passages that I can agree with. They began your statement with a commitment to the social, economic, democratic success balance, and we, I think, rightly praised this passage because we made a significant contribution in the 55 years of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have rightly said that Austria is a most successful country, an economic model country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! What you have heard here in this context is your opening balance. And the meaning of an opening balance is to allow a comparability of benefits at the beginning of a period of time and at the end of the same period. Over the past 55 years, where social democrats have been responsible for government, economic development, social development, political development, our reputation in Europe, has slantly increased up in the world. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only 51 years!]] You will only have to prove that under your government a similar development is possible at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You talked about a turn. The reverse balance of the last five, six days is remarkable: The population is highly uncertain by the reduction of pensions, and there are also discussions about social security, economic recovery, and we also have obvious problems in the family. Ladies and gentlemen! In just a few days, you've done it, out of the positive term "wind", which has given hope to make a term of fear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me briefly dwell on the problems that Austria has in Europe. Federal Chancellor! You yourself have articulated these problems, you have spoken of problems of word, language and tone. I believe that this is a very inadmissible simplification, because you have joined a coalition partner who not only has problems with the words, language and tone, but also with his policy. Federal Chancellor! Your coalition partner has in recent years a popular desire "foreigners out!" or "Austria first!" as he called it, and launched a popular desire against the euro. These are not any political actions from the past, because – I have looked up –: Do you know who the representatives of the service were in the Euro-popular desire? – Her vice chancellor and the clubman of the second government party were the two service agents! That's the same thing with the "Austria!"- People's desires. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: "Austria out!", Mr. Collegue?]] "Foreigners out!" or "Austria first!" [[Call to the liberals: Where do you take such a thing?]] – Do you know who the service agents were? – Your Minister of Defense and the person you would have liked as Minister of Defense but who did not accept the President of the Federal Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what it looks like. That's your policy, and that's the current situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you really want to make policy easier, there is a good way to do this: Make sure, Federal Chancellor, that these ridiculous rumors and these ridiculous attempts to blame social democracy for the problems in Europe stop! You know that's not true! In the next two or three days, you will face a decision by the European Democratic Union, namely whether your party, the Austrian People's Party, will actually be excluded at the request of four conservative parties. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Don't worry!]] I hope in the interests of Austria that this will not be the case, but I think you have every reason to develop a counter-strategy, and we are willing to make our contribution together with you in this regard. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All that has been developed so far, ladies and gentlemen, has not been done to actually remedy the situation. On the one hand, you have demonstrated – and on the other hand, to the contradiction – that the representation costs, but also public relations expenses, are substantially reduced, but on the other hand, today and tomorrow, as I hear, you have published your "declaration" in the "Herald Tribune" by 660 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen! What is particularly interesting in this context is who is mentioned as a sub-declaration. If I understand correctly, it is the preamble of the government statement of the Schüssel/Riess-Passer government. But do you know what's behind it? – "Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel", "Dr. Jörg Haider"! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Is this the demonstration that not the chancellor and the vice chancellor stand for this government, but in reality the chancellor and his "overcancer" from Carinthia? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Mrs. Vice-Chancellors don't exist at all! Why are you sitting up, Mrs. Riess-Passer?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to: Take people's fear in the social field, and make clear what it's all about! They are talking about "pension adjustments" and, as we hear, there are reductions in pensions of up to 20 percent. As we hear, you have developed a bonus malus system where there will be a bonus for 5 percent and a malus for 95 percent of pensioners. In addition, there are also a number of ambiguities related to self-maintenance in health insurance. That is why we have tabled a urgent request today to clarify this. If we speak of "adaptation", ladies and gentlemen: This will be a novel word for drastic change. You also want to "adjust" labour law in this context, as you say so beautifully: "adjust to the new developments in working life". – This is a dangerous threat. We know what you mean! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two more comments. They declare that they want to give women the freedom of choice, whether they want to reconcile work and family or remain exclusively in the household. [[Abg. Oillinger: "Company household"!]] In this context, you are spending a considerable sum, which must only be financed – but I recognise that it is a significant financial contribution – but where does your support remain if the woman chooses a job and a family? – At the childcare centre nebulos is talking about a contribution from the Federal Government, at some time there are zero comments, in which flexibility is at best the talk of incentives – everyone you know knows that this is at the expense of women – and in the retention period you hold back. Ladies and gentlemen! That's your answer: You want to bring the women back to the stove and not really create you the job. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are committed to combating unemployment. But with what? The resources for productive labour market care, but also for the National Employment Plan, are largely broken down. This is a confession that, above all, has no figures – and this is a policy that rejects social democracy as much as your art policy. When reading the pre-exemplar, I thought of my Ladies and gentlemen: He will not say the sentence, namely the sentence that no one has to be persecuted in connection with cultural policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Contemporary art as a promotion object does not occur at all! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You have to imagine that! In my opinion, art policy is there to enable new artists to enter into a professional work as an artist, but the new woman Minister of Art sees her task only in preventing the persecution as a kind of second Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Crocodile tears are these!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We must all fear ourselves – not from persecution, from which the rule of law will protect us, but from the policy of this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3589	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e3611	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! And at this point, allow me a little boost, an extended address: Dear First Mrs Bundeskan..., Vice Chancellor of the Republic of Austria! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Ministers and State Secretary! It is an excellent moment to see this new government in front of the National Council; a new government that has started its work very dynamically, but here in Parliament, it has met with your fundamental opposition. Mr Kostelka! I understand, if you say here that you are very disappointed, given the results of the elections of 3rd. On October, this disappointment is still great today – I understand that – your group too is disappointed. But this disappointment can't go so far that you're really going in fundamental opposition with the green alternatives. This disappointment cannot go that far, Mr Edlinger, Mr Schlögl, Mr Eins, Mrs Hostasch, and how you are all sitting here, that you are taking responsibility for Austria at the starting doors of the ministries! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They should return to the basic consensus, to a constructive way also the opposition, and you should above all give this government a chance and do not, from the outset, like many uncritical and many who do not question their criticisms, fight in such a massive way. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What is the basic consensus?]] I think that's important. Since you have addressed an advertisement here, which serves only for offensive information abroad, and criticise the fact that such advertisements are made but at the same time require international information work, I say to you: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Sad enough!]] I do not want to compare this important educational work for Austria abroad with some advertising campaign of your Federal Minister, advertising campaigns that sound to me and also to the Austrians: "Rail instead of traffic blinds", "And off!" and so on. – This was a waste of tax money, but not the information for Austria, Mr Kostelka! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have also talked about Europe and international ambitions to move the deescalation forward. I welcome this, but please also start by teaching your officials, your socialist delegates to the international organizations about these de-escalations, and starting to involve them. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I don't need your call for that! That's what we do alone! Take it back, every statement from you makes it worse!]] It is not right for the highest socialist officials in important European bodies to begin to give international advice on what else can be done against Austria, Mr Gusenbauer! I quote from the "Economiesblatt" of the 4th century. February 2000, in which the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, Ewald Novotny – we all know him, many years of socialist parliamentarians and financial spokespersons – gives advice on how to put Austria worse economically. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it? Read it before!]] You have to imagine that! [[Call the ÖVP: Unheard!]] [[Further calls.]] Mr. Novotny said "EconomicsBlatt" – listen! –: Only theoretically, says Vice-President Ewald Novotny, could the European Investment Bank refuse Austrian companies loans. - Quote. No one has said that before him. [[Call by Members Dr. Gusenbauer and Schieder:Read more! Read more]] So he gives tips on how to damage the Austrian economy. That is what we condemn to the very sharpest, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call by Members Dr. Gusenbauer and Schieder:Read more! Read more]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== A clear signal of political change was given on October for renewal. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read the whole sentence!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I know that it is a really bad feeling to listen to such a good statement of government, to so many reform projects and so much renewal on the opposition bank. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read more! All the sentence!]] Mr Gusenbauer! Do you know why God has given you only one mouth, but two ears? – In order for you to listen better and not to intercede so much, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: We want to hear the whole sentence!]] [[Abg. Schieder: Read more!]] ==References== A clear signal for political change, renewal and change was given in October. Now, four months later, it is so far, the electorate's will has been implemented: The age of the red-black standstill coalition is over, and today a new reform government from the People's Party and FPÖ – with outstanding personalities, with direction-setting programs and content, with a well-founded, very detailed, directional government statement and, above all, with the firm will to shape a better future for Austria! – Mr Gusenbauer, you should remember that too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was not a easy start for this government. Everything was done to build barriers against this government, whether international or on the road in Austria. It is now necessary to reduce false prejudices – and such were – to replace the rapid false prejudice with a correct judgment on the content of the government programme and the act of government; we will ensure that we are informed accordingly. [[Abg. Edlinger: It's getting worse!]] We want to remove barriers and instead of these barriers, we want to build a window of optimism, courage to change. That's necessary. After the arrest of socialist politics, it is necessary to prove optimism and courage for the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: If you are the face of optimism, Mr. Westenthaler, then this is a matt matter!]] Despite the massive criticism, also international criticism, despite your fundamental opposition, in which you have now entered, this young renewal government has already mastered the first obstacles and is now also more united, more motivated and determined to fulfil this mandate for Austria, which we have received from the voters. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What obstacles?]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] In order to fulfil this task, I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, German Chancellor, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, much success and good on the part of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a budget renewal – there have been socialist finance ministers for 30 years – we have a need for renovation of 235 billion schilling until 2003. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: He can't count either!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That was your budget policy. We need to clean up the budget. [[Abg. Edlinger: If you don't do anything for four years, that's what comes!]] We want social justice in a new social partnership between workers and employers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We want to secure Austria's economic location. We want a reliable foreign policy. We want strong democracy, a powerful state, free art and free artists, maximum internal security and best education. These are essentially the basic pillars of the political renewal that this reform partnership has undertaken. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This has been done by the Reform Partnership in a very ambitious programme under the title: "Rerule Austria." This is not just a programme, not just a coalition agreement, not just a declaration of government, but we regard it as a treaty with the Austrians, as a treaty for a better future for our country Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: But didn't have a single signed by the population!]] The initial situation is not easy: We need to rehabilitate this legacy that you left us. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And we will certainly not let you out of responsibility, but into this responsibility, as the heir of this difficult heritage. You cannot press ahead with the responsibility that you have made a wrong budget policy for 30 years. You can't, you won't! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have made a clear commitment – I consider this to be very important – also to the principles of Article 6 of the EU Treaty – which we have also incorporated into our EU programme. I think it is right that the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law should also be written down and put in place. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: An amazing statement for you!]] But I do not understand your criticism, since you repeatedly demand a commitment to these principles, but then, if you do, say: This is a matter of course, why does a government have to write it into a Preamble? [[Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Edlinger.]] – Because we stand by it because we stand by this rule of law and democracy and because we will also implement policy in this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is a chapter on "strong democracy": We want to promote a new patriotism for the democratic commitment of the population, for more co-determination, for more co-responsibility, also for the common good of citizens. For the first time, we have also driven forward an objectivization with a separate Charter of Objectiveion, for example in the school area. We have agreed on the choice of letters, which is important, since problems – you know – occur, for example, with the Austrians abroad, so that they can exercise their democratic right and carry out the election. We will make a simplification in this area: We will replace the electoral card in the sense of the letter election. We will also - and this is also very important - have always been a point that we have agreed to - uplift popular desire and the other instruments of direct democracy. The popular desire is to be further developed in the sense that if it is supported by 15 percent of the population, it will come to a referendum. This must then be carried out. – A real expansion of direct democratic means. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to extend the rights of the People's Procuratorate. We want – and this is very important for the workers – a direct choice, a democratization at social security institutions, a direct choice of employee and employer representatives in social security institutions. And, of course, we have in this chapter – I underline what the Federal Chancellor has also done – a commitment to the reparation of the forced workers, prisoners of war and displaced persons. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: legendary! That's "unbelievable"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look closely at this chapter and examine it closely, then you will see that this democracy is not only alive, but that this federal government continues to strengthen and strengthen this democracy. This is important in the sense of democratic development – also internationally. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, we have also defined a completely new social contract, which includes fairness and social justice, but above all social security – which we consider very important. We have defined and included the fight against unemployment by evaluating the National Employment Action Plan. We want – the Federal Chancellor has done this – to create a handling system that is now regarded by all commentators and experts as an essential improvement for workers, and which also enables them to take care of them in the event of self-proclaiming and short working time. This is a real reform, right up to social security reforms – merger – to change the pension system. To this end, I would like to define the following and to make it clear – because you always say that there would be a deterioration in pensions here –: There is no intervention in existing pensions, but a guarantee of existing pensions by this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is only one change in the early retirement age. And here too we have yours – yours! – Pact and your proposal, Mr Edlinger... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] First of all, they have put the massive deterioration in the way of early pensions, especially for workers. They wanted to raise the early retirement age by two years, they wanted to introduce very massive disadvantages, especially for long-term workers and women. [[Abg. Edlinger: You take away one fifth of the pension for the people! You're a pension demon!]] We have yours – yours! – "Suggest of grayery" to draw teeth and achieve an improvement for Austrian workers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: You take the people a fifth of the pension!]] For example, young workers – if one starts teaching at the age of 15, 16 years of age, is in the profession for a long time – can of course retire very early or get a better pension through the bonus malus system if they work longer. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is an incentive, and this is really an improvement! There are also improvements for women: Child rearing times will be fully reckoned in the future. This is a major improvement for women in Austria. We confess to that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, we want to keep it in such a way that the increase in pensions is not carried out throughout all shifts in the future, but that the increase is made by base amounts. This is also a major improvement, especially for those who have low pensions, who receive the same increase in this way and are not made worse by a percentage increase, which would, in fact, give more servants than those who have low pensions. We will abolish the retirement provisions – it can be forced to do so – and we will move on to a three-pillar model so that the pension system can remain secure in the future, be financed, and not go beyond edge and band, as it would have happened under socialist leadership, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: It has to be forced to do so, otherwise people can't live anymore!]] However, in the sense of Austrian workers, we have also brought many improvements for families and, above all, for the "small" people in Austria into this new social partnership with employers, such as a rental reduction programme, a reduction in electricity prices through early liberalisation, and a reduction in the cost of wages in the amount of 15 billion schilling. And we also want – this is a clear commitment from this Federal Government – to bring a discharge on the tax side in this legislative period and to implement a tax reform so that the Austrians will be relieved accordingly and finally get away from your tax policy. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's what I'm looking at!]] - That's one of our offers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You will not be able to be insecure – even by horror messages that you now want to spread about some measure. It's just not right – that's also clearly said – if you say everywhere: Now comes the restraint when you're in the hospital! – It always gives the same example, you obviously always use this one example in your information campaign. They say: If you have to have a expensive hip operation that costs 300 000 S, you have to pay 20 percent of your own. That says, please, nowhere! That's totally wrong! [[Abg. Rider: But it is nowhere that it is not!]] There is no self-retain for hospital stays or operations at all, and there is also no self-retaining – and this seems important to me – for those who are socially disadvantaged in the system, for pensioners and for those who cannot afford it. [[Abg. Rider: Who evaluates who that is?]] We have also put the protective hand over the "small" people in the field of health and health insurance, we will not abandon them, of which you can be sure. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Who says there's a self-retaining at all? – It is up to health insurance companies to reduce their deficit, which has grown to billions under your leadership. Whether they do this by administrative savings or by the already existing health certificate fee or by the prescription fee or – the important thing is "or" – only when visiting a doctor, is a health insurance decision. We will be eager to wait for this deficit to be reduced, but it has to be reduced, and we are very determined to do so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We also valued – and this is also very interesting for young people – the fact that we do not stand here in the new information and communication age, but take into account further developments. It is also important, in my opinion, that we have also written in this government agreement – for this we confess to ourselves; this is also very important for the technology age, no more utopia, but a vision for the next one, two, three years –: We want more information, more technology, for everyone! About under the motto: E-mail and electronic signature for each Austrian. – This is a commitment to technology, to further development and also to the information society in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have such a thing – I have said that again and again – as a New Deal for Austria develops, a forward-looking, programmatic design for a truly better future in this country. We say with this new government: more freedom instead of premeditation, more self-determination instead of dirigism, more social partnership instead of class struggle, more social justice instead of non-social burdens, more security instead of uncertainty and more performance instead of abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! This reform partnership in the form of this new young government has earned its chance. Now it's for all of us: Sleeve up sleeves and get to work! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's go to work for everyone's heart, for the future of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4183	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! It's really hard for me to decide what's better for me now: the old tyrates of the Fundamental-Oppositionial Westenthaler – or the unbearable narrowness that he is now up here! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have to think about it for a long time: I tend to think I'd prefer the old Tirads because they sound kind of honest! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But just a trace!]] In any case, this is a difficult decision. My previous speaker from SPÖ pointed out that the listing was signed in the "Herald Tribune" by Haider and Schüssel. He's been mokin' about it. I think that's totally okay! This is realistic: The shadow of Jörg Haiders is above this cabinet that is behind me. You could even go that far to say: This is the shadow cabinet Jörg Haiders! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I'm thinking of an international audience like that of the "Herald Tribune" before which you say it openly. There is no objection at all! It is even an expression of unusual reality in Austrian politics, especially in foreign policy! I can start right away. – Mr. Dr. Schüssel! Everyone has to start with themselves, see page 4 below of your Government Declaration. [[Abg. Oillinger: He's got something to discuss right now!]] – That doesn't matter, it also applies to the others! I'd like to start with myself in the year 2000: Perhaps Mr Khol and I will come together and consider what we can improve if we already want to start with us. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Thank you, Mr. Colleague!]] But that must also apply to the others. With what, for example, our new foreign minister... [[Abg. Kiss: What with!]] – Thank you many times, Mr Kiss! What did our new foreign minister start with? With what? Yesterday I had the pleasure of watching the TV "Report". A new foreign minister, characterized by painful suffering, did not know and said: Unfortunately, no one has told me anything about the specific sanctions that can be expected. There were only concerns expressed, and we were told complaints, but unfortunately nothing specific. [[Abg. May. Steindl: She was excellent!]] I wonder, What do we need a foreign minister for? What do we have the Austrian diplomacy for? I thought it wasn't that bad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] There is a filter somewhere in between, so nothing is perceived. What do we think of all the ambassadors and so on, if not for them to hear the grass grow and give us exactly what is not yet black on white in a statement? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Mr. Van der Bellen "holds" people!]] The task of finding out is a foreign minister or a State Secretary! – In the psychological one calls such a phenomenon, I think, loss of reality: do not want to perceive what is going on outside. I have to say: This line continues in the government statement or today's words by Dr. Schüssel. It speaks of "criticism of foreign affairs". – Mr Bundeskanzler! Is the European Union really "foreign" for you? It is often about the prejudices and preconceived opinions of foreign countries, but also about the domestic. – Do you really think that’s the best starting point to explain what’s going on here and that everything is quite different? I am not surprised that Austrian foreign policy is taking on a very modern means, an instrument that is not cheap, but which, if one saves staff, which is the intention of the new Federal Government, could be budget neutral under the heading, namely the instrument of large-scale advertisements in international newspapers. [[Abg. Jung: The government in the "NEWS" has done this all the time!]] – I am nevertheless of the opinion that the new government is making the old policy with one hand full of new faces! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You're perfectly right! You should remember better what you criticized to the old government! I would like to have experienced how you would have responded if the new SPÖ-ÖVP government or any other one had justified themselves with full-page advertisements in the "Herald Tribune". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] I would have liked to experience this or not, as Mr Westenthaler would have weathered then! Now that's all right. In the helplessness, of course, one can also use such means! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: After you have not found it worth the effort to defend Austria abroad!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a loss of reality in foreign policy, which they still cannot take. The Federal Chancellor here tells us seriously: We will be able to pay with the euro in 12 months! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rasinger.]] - Great! Is it already the first success of the new government that we can pay with the euro? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sure!]] Great! I'll tell you: I will be glad if I can order something at a local in Germany, France, Spain or Portugal, if it beats me there, let alone pay in euro, as an Austrian! That's the problem! .. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Khol! Look Don't touch me like that with your angel sucks! Every business traveler has to justify himself and say: I am Austrian, but I am a decent businessman et cetera. – Take note! To deny is simply not honest! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You have to take good care of yourself in a local place!]] As a patriot, I deeply regret it – and I do not let this half of the empire take patriotism for a long time! – that you risk that the three words "Made in Austria" are no longer a quality mark, but become a handicap for Austrian businessmen and others. [[the speaker refers to the series of the liberals]] [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I repeat: you have to take care of yourself in a place!]] – My God, I was able to experience this in my short career as a politician, that I would get some behavioral suggestions from this side! [[Congratulations and bravo! Call the greens.]] Great! I really like that because I have a slope to cynicism. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The new government has promised us new style. Sooner or later I would have liked to know: Where's the new style? Mr Khol! What about dealing with the opposition now? Do we now have minority rights for a committee of inquiry or not? So far, what we hear from you and Mrs Fekter means is that we are deceiving and delaying time. There is nothing about minority law! What about the style here in Parliament? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What about what has been valid so far?- Oh, my God!]] We will look at yesterday's protocols and the calls from the liberals as far as they are logged – all are not logged; but this is not an accusation, for the poor ladies and gentlemen cannot get everything – and then see who is holding the Presidency and who gives a call for order. That's what we're going to look at! I like to look at everything! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] I don't know if that's painful! Your old Radauspolitik may have been appropriate for an opposition party, I cannot judge it, but for a government party I find your behavior deplacated. But I'm not talking to you! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] What about your speech of "conspiracy" and "high betrayal"? – Your highly revered Mr. Partyobmann and head of state in Carinthia speaks of political treason! Do you want to investigate this politically now or not? Is there an investigation committee or not? Or did you fall into the first conflict because the ÖVP doesn't want it? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe you can make a speech without mentioning the name Haider!]] [[Abg. Young: What about Mrs Vassilakou's request?]] Vassilakou – this is a good keyword! How can this be understood now, Federal Chancellor: "Despite the demonstrations these days, radical growths... rare." Unknown term type: "%s".? They always call after differentiation, but throw all these demonstrations into a pot as radical growth. I expect you to have a correction, a qualification, a modification! What did you mean by that? Demonstration is still a civil right in this country! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we are now in the new style, then I would sooner or later also wish you would stop doing this eternal dyeing in government declarations! The Government Declaration states: "Austria is characterised by high humanitarian standards." - Okay. And on top of that: "Never has the Republic of Austria violated political, democratic and humanitarian principles after the Second World War." That's where I ask you: Who is the Republic of Austria? I can recall very well that the Republic of Austria has been sentenced to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and that with its finger on us, on the Republic of Austria, it has been shown by "amnesty international" for various violations. – As you put it now, it is not quite! It goes on to say: "No one should doubt that we are committed to believing tolerance, openness and respect for human rights." - Who is "we"? Dr. Schüssel, I believe this to be absolutely so. But you have a partner who has done everything in the Vienna election campaign, so that you do not believe it, and whose chairman has just called the Preamble to which everyone has now called themselves, as an insult to the Austrians. – This is your government partner’s credibility! It's not against you personally! I can tell you two or three more things to try to make you aware of why many people worry and have fears and fears. It is primarily about human rights, civil rights and social rights. – In today’s declaration of government, except for me, there was no mention of the reforms in the field of justice that this government is seeking. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krüger: That's what comes from me!]] I have withdrawn from the media the withdrawal of the extrajudicial settlement. That was an achievement! Where are you going in this context? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There will be an exception catalogue!]] In the Government Declaration, there was no mention that you want to take back the quotas in the family merger. However, the Coalition Convention is very likely to mention it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But only when the backlog is finished!]] "Rückstau" is a stretchable term. I would like to know whether the Christian-Social People's Party also admits to the family when it comes to foreign citizens who are legally resident in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] Why don't you say that? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Sure!]] That's what you're saying now! I didn't hear that from the government bank. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's included!]] The extended investigation of the danger at the police will come. – The Social Democrats should not be upset about this because it was agreed with them. This is taken over by the black and blue-black government! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're afraid of the greens, and that the greens don't want that, I understand!]] One last thing in this context, namely the skeletalization of the Ministry of Social Affairs: That's very interesting. Within the framework of an inconspicuous law, namely a reform of the Federal Ministerial Law – as I believe – the Ministry of Social Affairs is filed. The Section for Labour Market Policy goes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Labour law goes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. And to all the excess, the labour inspectorate goes to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very useful!]] They say: It's very sensible, and that's what the government bank says. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At the same time, we have not heard the statement of Government that the budget for active labour market policy is being reduced. But that's in your program and it's planned. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very useful! Very sensible!]] To do this, you say: very sensible! [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] The new Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Martin Bartenstein, with his new double task, wants to overcome the cliché – this is a literal quote – that there is a contrast between employers and employees. - Really? There is no contrast between employers and employees? [[Abg. Oillinger: The old model is coming back!]] 60 years ago it was called the "Volksgemeinschaft". A new expression will come to your mind! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We call the social partners!]] This is social partnership? If you don't even perceive interests, but simply deny them, then should the social partners be?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You are still a follower of the class struggle!]] In any case, I have a completely different understanding of social partnership! Social partnership requires that mutual interests be recognized first and not blurred and said: There is a cliché that there is some contrast between employers and employees. I would not have trusted a minister of the economy at the beginning of a period of government! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will be plenty of opportunity to say something about the budget. We have not heard anything about the budgetary policy of this new government in this declaration of government. We know from the newspapers that taxes are increased. In the "politspeak" it is now called "tax adjustments". [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Federal Chancellor mentioned what taxes it will be!]] - Right, he mentioned that! There will be tax increases and benefits will be removed. We don't know a concept behind the whole thing yet. I can only say: I am glad that a few weeks ago I made a request for the adoption of a legislative budget. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The budget came in today!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The government template is already here!]] You wouldn't have needed the government paper. The proposal for an initiative would have been in place for a long time! But this is the new style of continuing to throw the oppositional Members' requests into the trash bin, as before, and make their own request from it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Of course! This is the new style of the old government with a handful of new heads.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4774	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make a general comment on the discussion. There were a few speeches and interlocutory speeches in the evening hours yesterday, which would have given rise to a call for order. I refer, for example, to the statement made by Dr. Partik-Pablé: "They're really stupid!", or on that of the Westenthaler Member: "Treaters of violence"; Mrs Pittermann made the following statement with regard to Mr Bundeskanzler: "A foreign minister who does not recognize such a thing in good time is incapable!" [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pittermann.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Rules of Procedure do not allow a call for regulations to be issued today. We must be aware, however, that, in the present situation, Parliament is not only a forum for the rule of law and democracy, but also that the principle of tolerance and dignity for human beings must be applied in this House. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would ask you to pay attention to this! Next speaker: Mr Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e4820	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a brief comment on the statements made by two previous speakers. The Bible speaks of the Pharisees who see the splitter in the eye of the other, but not the beam of their own. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, yes!]] I suppose it's not a coincidence that I think this comes to my mind in the criticism of the advertisement in the "International Herald Tribune", which costs about 600 000 S. I have a question with regard to the costs of advertising on the "Strategy for Austria" of Mr Alt-Bundeskanzler's climate in the middle of the election campaign. In the middle of the election campaign, 2,199 million schillings were spent on a single day and 341,000 s for another advertisement on the same day! In view of this, I believe that the information of the international public, regardless of elections, is certainly worth this 600 000 S! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Van der Bellen! I'd like to accept the hand you stretched out against me! I have fought some ostrich with you and your group. But I also went to your election events, such as when you presented your neutrality concept, and discussed it. I hope that Professor Rudolf Burger will retain the right, who has recently written by you as the "constructive greens with their more offerable economic professor at the head of politics as a pro-seminar". I consider this to be a compliment! I hope that we will deal so objectively and deal with constitutional issues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to the Federal Government's statement: Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The concept of how Austria will be re-regulated has filled us with enthusiasm by the People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I think so!]] We will fully support the new Federal Government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We believe that this declaration is a clear answer to the challenges of the results of the elections. ==References== Because this election result has not left anyone unspoiled in this House and has promoted a party from this House. And I'm pointing out that we're the signals of the 3rd. October must take careful account! I remind the Social Democrats that they have lost over 5 percent of their voters. I know – because I see the beam in my own eye – that we too have lost over 1% of the Austrian People's Party. The liberals have won 5 percent. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Greens won 3 percent. And the Liberal Forum has fallen out of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen also from the opposition! Don't believe Reinhold Eppler is right, who said: "If we continue as we have been, we won't continue this way for a long time." Don't you think the voters wanted a clear signal? I would also like to thank the Socialists for their applause on the German Chancellor's statement. However, I would like to say that we have, of course, received these signals, despite a constant economic growth of 3 per cent, a price that goes to the zero limit, an internationally amazingly low unemployment rate of just over 4 per cent, despite an employment miracle with new peaks of employees each month, an export offensive that has created these jobs, and an economy that is booming and in which private consumption is increasing, because we have constantly falling private interest rates. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is SPÖ policy!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then something must have been wrong with the system! [[Abg. Edler: The ÖVP!]] On your call, Mr Edler, I ask you: Who lost 5 percent? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think the "South German newspaper" was right yesterday, because there it says: "In this way Austria is indeed the Menetkel" – that is, the warning sign on the wall – "the Western European party democracy. The parties must now be afraid that they have to clear up their areas of influence in civil society, they do not want to conjure up seeing eyes to create a severe crisis of meaning for democracy. Their wide-ranging spirit of regulation, such as their premeditated competence, is now a curse to them. All parties see themselves confronted with the dilemma that they cannot formulate plausible answers to the ‘serious repetitions of history’. The social power they acquired under historically different circumstances turns into powerlessness." I believe that this is the challenge we all have to face in the House today, in 2000, with a good, new and challenging programme! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was not easy for the People's Party, which was an election loser, to get out of the opposition role. We have decided to do so in the face of the clear catastrophic state of state finances and on the basis of the wishes of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was the love of Austria that prompted us not to nudge like the balcony muppets as opposition, but to assume responsibility! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] We tried first with the Social Democrats. Our goal was a completely renewed great coalition. We've been negotiating a good package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jäger.]] Mrs. Jäger! I will show you this package many times! This package is the result of three months of talks and negotiations, and I stand by it! It would have been a good program for Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It has failed, and I am grateful to Mr Nürnberger for his truthfulness, for he has said: I don't support what I don't want to do. – I am not sure that others who had signed it would have had the same purposes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Jäger! We will show you the program many more times! I can also worship you a copy! Because we will measure you on this programme, and it will be the challenge of this legislative period to determine whether social democracy is carrying out the things it has negotiated with us in this programme, even if we are going to bring them into the House without them! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has failed to implement this programme – I do not want to go into detail now – that it was not possible at the end of the board of the Social Democracy to implement it and sign it in such a way that we would have had the certainty that there would have been the necessary parliamentary support from the Social Democrats. It was the lack of political capacity of social democracy that brought this package to an end! [[Bravo! Call the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I go over the short intermezzo, which was that Klubobmann Kostelka and other SPÖ politicians have worked intensively to tolerate a minority government by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That was embarrassing!]] I don't want to spread any more salt in wounds. I'm just saying, What "Kurier" editor Rabl wrote today in the "Kurier" of the virtual coalition FPÖ-SPÖ hits the nail on the head! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Negotiations with the FPÖ were very well prepared for the exploratory talks that the President of the Federal Government imposed on us all. I would like to say here from this pult that I am grateful to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany for having been able to conduct exploratory talks with all the political groups. I regret that the Greens were only once looking for the conversation with our current Federal Chancellor. I am pleased that Van der Bellen today made the offer that the basis for the discussion will continue in the next legislative period. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] The outcome of the talks with the liberals is this government programme. I recommend that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, carefully compare the two programmes. You will find that we have taken into account in the budget the key values that we still have negotiated with then Finance Minister Edlinger and with the then Federal Chancellor climate, in the new programme, and will also implement with many same instruments. It's true what Klubobmann Westenthaler said: The Edlinger proposals for the pension are designed in our package of human, fairer and better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The measures for the public service – we from the People's Party stand for the powerful, excellent, law-reliance, corruption-free public service in this Republic, we stand for that! – are the same with those you find in the pink package with the Social Democrats. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The benefit for all, as we imagine, would also have been paid by the Social Democrats. But what we are proposing today is much better and goes beyond that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! I would like to take special care of everything that stands for foreign policy, military policy, European policy and external security in this paper, which you are negotiating with us and which we have concluded. With very small nuances, it is what has been communicated today in the government programme of the Federal Chancellor. This is the great opportunity – and I see this as a great opportunity, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! – that we have here formulated a national consensus on security policy, on European policy and on foreign policy. I invite you to represent this consensus here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "Rerule," said the Federal Chancellor. And the cornerstones of this are clear: an appropriate division of work, fewer ministries, better structures. What social democracy has always been advocating and talking about: a better distribution of competence: We brought them here in the House yesterday as an initiative proposal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Never, as long as the Republic exists, have so many women managed the most important and important ministries in a government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] We do not need women to cope, but we need women with competences! And we got her! [[Bravo!-Rufe and congratulation with the ÖVP as well as the liberals.]] We will carry out a real privatisation. We'll set up a slimmer state. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We confess to the objective award of posts. I am very interested in Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to find out whether the proposals for legislation for the objective post award are carried by you! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Painful!]] Whether they will be carried by you, Mr Jarolim – you know exactly what I am talking about! You advise AUA, you advise a whole series of para-state companies, and you know exactly how in the past the property representatives – Finance Ministers and Federal Chancellors – have awarded the posts. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: How in Lower Austria!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I also remember the Bundestheater. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We will strengthen civil society – I am pleased that the word "citizen society" appears in the Government Declaration – and we are in favour of strong democracy. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] If you look at the Ministry Act, you will realize that the Federal Chancellor is very dissociating from his small, scattered skills and that his actual role, which has not been fair to his predecessor, will be fair, namely to be the manager of a reform of tasks and expenditure in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So what to do?, again writes the "South German newspaper": In order to avoid Austrian states, the parties would have to reinvent themselves and understand themselves as innovation agencies, which formulated pragmatically – saying: largely ideology-free – answers to the distressing problems. These answers should no longer be diffused by a social network raised and controlled by the parties, but, for example, by means of truly independent media, should be communicated publicly in the dialogue. - Quote. That, I believe, has also happened in this programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just give you a moment. Van der Bellen and the reaction of abroad come to speak. I want to distinguish two things. ==References====External links== On 1 October 1999 every mediocrely talented newspaper reader made it clear that this election result was observed with concern with the strengthening of the Freedom Party abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That the ÖVP is not in opposition!]] Of course, the chronicle of the President of the Federal Republic is entirely correct, in which he points out that he was addressed at all possible international meetings: What's going on in Austria? How can this election result be understood? And one would have concerns to see a liberal party slandered abroad in the government. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's why you don't have an order for government formation!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's all right, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== The European Union as a European Union would take action. ==References== In January 2000, the letter of the Belgian Liberal Prime Minister came with socialist support, which dealt with the President of the European Council, the President of the Socialist International. What happened so that this letter was written? ==References== A conference of the Socialist International took place in January 2000, where German Chancellor Climate took part in a meeting of the party presidents in the evening. Mr Spindelegger reported yesterday. I call on Mr Alt-Bundeskanzler to bring light into this dark! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What role has climate played in Stockholm? If he suggested the measures against Austria there – I can't believe that, I don't want to believe that! – has he been informed about the situation in Austria, particularly concerned himself with the Freedom Party, and thus stimulated the measures – that might be sooner – or has he immediately talked about it and taken the position of an Austrian patriot? – I hope so, I expect him, but I want to know. [[Abg. May. Posch: But Citizens... Citoyen!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Citizen Andreas Khol! Citizens Andreas Khol!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] To conclude: Read the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung", read the "Zürcher Zeitung", read the "Süddeutsche Zeitung". It is clear in all newspapers: "The abdications in Vienna – for example, Mr Olt writes in the "FAZ" – "that have to resign in Vienna, orchestrate the European and international concert. What they have to do with the alleged danger of Reasoning for the return of fascism is nothing but an attempt to mobilize the road against a legitimate government which has been established in the rule of law in a legitimate way after democratic elections." There's nothing to add to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Posch:... nobody doubted, Mr. Bürger Khol!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! As a Christian trade union, I would like to give you a warm welcome! call for your work! We're behind you!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5239	The next speaker is Mrs Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5260	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Klubobmann Khol, a pink paper between SPÖ and ÖVP, is not available for several reasons. I would also like to mention some of these reasons. If this pink paper only had any liability, the other – the blue paper – would not differ from pink paper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to repeat at this point – because I am already sorry about the time – how sure the ÖVP was not to go into coalition with social democracy. Keep this paper well in honor, and work on this blue paper! I absolutely do not wish you too much luck. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol puts a pink brochure on the speaker's desk.]] Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Yes, at the beginning of his government statement, the Federal Chancellor has actually said a few very remarkable sentences, namely that Austria is good nationally and internationally. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) That's not all right when someone speaks to put something down!]] In the meantime, he then said the sentence: But that's not where he's been responsible alone anyway. [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Thank God he at least said this one sentence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ) That's the virgin speech! No calls for the first speech!]] This is the merit of the people in this country, ladies and gentlemen, and of a 30-year-old social democratic government responsibility – and not the merit of the new Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just like the government program, the German Chancellor's statement contains a lot of lyrics, a lot of lyrics, a lot of phrases and a big empty content. I'd like to say: No one is free to say nonsense – the unhappiness is only if it is still presented solemnly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the concrete measures announced have nothing but nothing to do with what you, Federal Chancellor, call your "guidelines". They speak of freedom and make peaceful demonstrations with radical growths of other countries alike. You refuse polarization... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: So the demonstrations with injured police were all in Austria, Mrs. Colleague!]] Please read it! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But not abroad!]] The Federal Chancellor speaks of peaceful demonstrations in Austria – and compares them with radical conflicts abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] They reject polarization and can join with a party whose apparently successful recipe is based solely on polarization, on a negotiator and on a counterpart. They conjure up tolerance and respect for human rights, even today. The President of the Federal Government had to write to you a preamble – I would just like to remind you here – for your government agreement. Why, I wonder; could you not agree on such a text together? And you wonder once again about foreign reactions. I think of a quote from Madeleine Albright, who said: The Austrians can choose who they want, but we determine with whom we maintain relationships. - That's so simple. If someone attacks and insults and takes back after being free, this is not a partner in the world, ladies and gentlemen! Not at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They speak of "more self-responsibility instead of premeditation." What do you mean – I wonder – by "abuse of state transfers"? Where are you going about the singles? Where do you mention that people who are actually on the verge should be particularly supported? Where do you say long-term unemployed actually need support? – No, you will obviously be subject to a completely different procedure in the future. I would like to read to you a sentence that I found today: The measures for long-term unemployed are a reminder of forced labour and an unworthy attitude to human beings. - Quote. I would like to tell you who published this today, namely the FCG, which rejects the Coalition Agreement over wide passages. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why I'm giving FCG a hundred percent right. I do not want to have to write to anyone in Austria in the main book that he obviously needs to learn to care for monuments in the future because he could become unemployed for a long time. And again and again the commitment to tolerance. What tolerance are you talking about? Where, for example, do the better rights for communities remain? – I am clearly speaking not only of the former communities of life, but also of homosexual communities. That would have been a sign of tolerance. You can't even mention it here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! In terms of tolerance and integration You probably have your hands full to do. Xenophobia, exclusion and hatred – if it rises, we know that people are afraid. Many people today are afraid, and they're going to the street today. [[Abg. Steibl: You're shaking!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not exactly the European idea, on which Commissioner Fischler, too, has already been very impressive and strongly expressed in the public, has made a clear and clear commitment, and has meant that it would be important to be particularly careful in this respect, including at European level. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There you have to look at the sections of the SPÖ, what's going on!]] Then the women – women, the footnote of family policy. What do you mean by "more courage to the future instead of brackets on the old" when I look at this from the point of view of women's policy? – Women do not need to return to the stove anyway; "Currency" is the magic word. [[Abg. Steibl: Women are independent and know what they want!]] Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen, in the future, the freelance shelf member can choose whether she wants to be a freelance shelf caretaker or to care for the children at home. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Cynical!]] This is not our policy, it is not our basic understanding of women's policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Especially in passages on women's policy, there is a lot of lyrics, lots of phrases and confessions that lack any kind of concrete support and concrete measures. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Her women's policy was seen at the "consumer" disaster when she lost her job!]] Where is the re-entry support – more than just a lip confession, more than just a headline? What I have done over the last three months, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA, I would also like to say here: I know how it's ordered about your women's policy component. I know how much I did and once again – I am saying now: regrettably – I would have agreed on compromises. But one thing to do – and this is happening now: I would have accepted these compromises because at least I would have had the guarantee that we did not get back. – But now both are happening! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where is the independent male policy in connection with the families? Where is it spoken... [[Abg. Steibl: You didn't do it either...!]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. You are right, the ÖVP has tormented SPÖ for 13 years in terms of women's policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can now show your true face, you no longer need to hide behind social-democratic women's politicians! The women will then know how to thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! Goethe once said: If you miss the first buttonhole, you won't get to the edge of the button. – I am afraid, Federal Chancellor, you have actually missed the first buttonhole.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5545	Mrs. Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e5570	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very interesting debate that we are experiencing today, about the government declaration of a new government which is now before this House and, if you believe the words of the opposition speakers, you are wrong about everything in this government programme. Everything is bad, and everything is harmful to this country. If I follow the words of Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen and Mrs Prammer in particular, then I can only conclude that they either did not really read the programme or that they deliberately misinterpret something here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We can't read!]] In reality, your ruling on this government programme has already been established before this government could even present this programme to them – that is, yesterday. [[Abg. Oillinger: The poor federal government is not understood by anyone!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Don't make it so easy!]] In reality, your judgment on this government programme has already been settled at the moment when the red-black coalition has failed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At this moment, it was absolutely clear to you that any form of government in which the Social Democratic Party is not involved can only be of harm to this country. [[Abg. May. Posch: Right!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Parnigoni and Mr Fekter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! To reject a government cooperation between FPÖ and ÖVP is one thing – but to recoup this rejection into a division of politics and society in that country is quite another thing! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My appeal to all Members of this House, but specifically to colleagues from the two opposition parties, is therefore to be aware that we all – whether government or opposition – have a common responsibility for this country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The voters have a... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You know, it's actually one of the basic rules of democracy and discourse to listen to the other. I have seen that virtually all the members of the opposition have spoken, so you will all have sufficient opportunity to express your views here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is an absolute naughtiness what you say!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But I would ask you at least to listen to the Court, the courtesy, so that you can know what you are criticizing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) The super-democratic there!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have behaved like this for 13 years!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In October 1999, a decision was taken which made possible several forms of government. One of them, the government formation between SPÖ and ÖVP, failed after weeks of negotiations because, if I remember correctly, the party leader of the S & D party made a decision that spoke against this cooperation. That was your free choice, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy! There is now a different majority. That is something which in a democracy must be a matter of course and is also a matter of course! Changes in the majority are a matter of course in a democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is also the case for the majority, the vast majority of citizens in our country, who expect from the new government and from Parliament after the months of cross-section around this form of government to think about what our real task is: to work for our country. And that's exactly what this government will do! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We want to start by redefine the balance between citizens and state. This begins with the necessary renewal, extension and development of the Constitution, democracy and the rule of law. This government has freed the way for more direct participation of citizens with its programme, which has already been mentioned today. For example, in the beginning people's desires will be made up of at least 15 percent of voters... – Yes, but you can't say it often enough, Mr. Collegue. [[Abg. Heinzl: We have heard that many times!]] Of course, they've heard it many times. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I'll tell you why I mention it again. If at least 15 percent of the electorate supports a popular desire, a referendum can be carried out. [[Abg. Heinzl: Bring something interesting new! No announcements!]] [[Abg. Grabner: New elections!]] That is why it is so important – and I regret that Mrs Prammer is now no longer here in the Chamber, because Mrs Prammer would have to be very pleased about it – because this would have meant that, for example, the support signatures for women's people's desire and genetic engineering would not have been in vain if the social democracy of direct democracy and citizens' participation had given a similar priority to what this government will do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is she?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Democracy also means justice and equal opportunities for citizens, including in the public service and in the areas close to the state. There has been a particularly violent protest from your side before, and of course we all know why this protest is so big. We have committed ourselves to adopting a comprehensive objectiveive law. This will be one of the priority projects of this Federal Government, and this will definitely be the last of the last few decades' unsavory party propaganda. The Austrians have long waited for a slim state. Citizens and private companies are under pressure from a real legislative flood that we must finally stop. The rule of law is not evidence of the quantity, but of the quality of laws. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why we will introduce a public impact assessment for laws, namely that the follow-up costs of new laws are considered not only for the public sector, but also for private households and private enterprises and are based on decision-making. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very good!]] I am also confident that we will succeed in something that has been promised many times, but has never been respected: that we can make laws in such a way that the address of these laws, namely the citizen, can really understand these laws, that they are written and formulated in such a way that they are understandable and comprehensible to the citizen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Access to justice must be facilitated and the procedures that often persist for years must be shortened. This, too, is a matter of legal certainty for us. Another point in this new cooperation is particularly important to me personally, which has also been mentioned: This is the strengthening of parliamentarianism. I say this quite consciously as a representative of a party that in recent years has put the opposition here in this House and had to experience what it is like when a government with a strong majority views an opposition as an annoying attachment and as a disturbance in parliamentary everyday life. Perhaps this is also the reason, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, that the process of opposition is obviously such horrors for you. But I can. You calm down: We will not take an example in this respect either of you! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We will always – take this quietly as a promise – always and at any time look for an open conversation with you and be ready for constructive cooperation. It's up to you whether you want to. [[Abg. That's a threat!]] However, I would like to address it now. If here comes from your side of the call that it is a threat when a government offers cooperation with the opposition, then I must say that you did not understand democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Democracy and parliamentarianism can only work if one is willing to work together across party borders – for the benefit of the country and the citizens who rightly expect it from us, Mr. Cot! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] However, we are also well aware of our responsibility for the socially weak and those involved in small incomes – unlike what Mrs Prammer has done here before me, which, as I think, has not really looked through the government programme. Despite the very difficult and disastrous budgetary situation, we have succeeded together – and we are very proud of it – in drawing our teeth to the original load package of the former Minister of Finance Edlinger. [[Abg. No, not at all! The Federal Chancellor said something else at the beginning!]] . Yes, Mr President, I know the truth is, if it is unpleasant, always difficult to bear, but that is to check facts. I say this again in all clarity, because here in recent days false representations have been deliberately spread: On the pension issue, we have ensured that those who have been working from the time of their youth are not burdened by an increase in the early retirement age. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a very big difference to your proposal, Mr Edlinger, who has looked very different. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not right!]] According to our proposal, this means that someone who has 45 years of insurance can continue to retire early, without any deductions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is to say – and I ask you to set up Mrs Prammer – that for women who, of course, cannot reach these periods of insurance at the same time, we have made the rule that the previous child-retirement periods are considered to be pensionable, so that there is no discrimination. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you are directing Mrs Prammer, who obviously misunderstanded this. As at all in this government programme – and this is also important to me – a number of improvements to the framework conditions of women as regards the compatibility of work and family are included. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where? Tell us the page!]] If you have the goodness to listen briefly, I'd love to do this to you. The Federal Chancellor has already pointed this out, and I would like to stress this once again: We have secured the child care allowance – that was a long-term requirement, including you and your women's organisations – for a full two years for the one partner and another year for the second partner, which is exactly what goes towards strengthening the family structure that Mrs. Prammer called for here just ten minutes ago. You just have to accept it. If you're making yourself up now and find what you used to call for wrong today, then that's something you need to explain to your own voters. That's not my job. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also very proud – also said to Mrs Prammer’s address – that in this government a third of the members of the government are women. I am particularly referring to the address of social democracy, because a colleague from their ranks has said as an intermediate call: Well, the women with you are only there for relief! I would ask you to refrain from such macho words in the future, the women are with us... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right!]] [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's what it was!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: The Khol said that!]] The colleague himself knows exactly where the call came from. If you do so with my colleague, he has found this particularly original. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to take this into account, fairly, in the assessment of this government programme. Take us by the word, and measure us by our actions! I would like to give you a very concrete example. Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has already pointed out that in the Government Agreement we have agreed to a rapid solution to the question of compensation for the forced workers of the Nazi regime, by the way, a question – and this is also important to me, once in a clear sense – in which the government has been able to resolve climate for a long time, as negotiators of the affected groups have told me. It is therefore completely inappropriate if the SPÖ is now shown with your finger to others, for you would have had it in your hand to find a solution here for a long time. We'll do that! You can rely on that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We do not expect to be judged by you, but the fairness, not by standard, but by our programme and its implementation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And we expect this fairness from our critics both domestically and abroad. The critical discussion of different points of view is always essential – and I ask you to take this into account, even if you, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, are now in a difficult situation in a changeover phase: respect for the opinion of the dissident. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You just have to say that!]] I myself – if you allow me to make this personal comment – have always lived up to the principle that categories such as good and evil are rarely suitable assessment criteria throughout my life. Of course, the temptation to draw a line of separation through the world between black and white is great, because if the political opponent is the evil one is supposed to represent the good automatically. This temptation is so critical of this new government in Austria and outside Austria in the last few days and has often confused a better morale with a politicization of morality. And there is a very considerable difference. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] All of us in this new government are not concerned with postulating absolute truths or proclaiming any utopia or promise, but it is very easy for us to improve the conditions of our daily existence and living together in Austria and in Europe and make it sound for the future. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is something new!]] [[Abg. Swimmlein: On the street outside you can already notice!]] This government has earned a fair opportunity like any other government, as it does in a democracy that lives by change and not by rigidity. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The voters have this opportunity on 3rd June. Opened in October 1999. Now it will be up to us to use them.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6096	The next speaker is Mr Gilbert Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6117	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government on the Government Bank! I understand the frustration on the part of the SPÖ: ==References== On October 1st, you have beaten a national election, lost a lot of votes – and now you have to look at a young, refreshing government team full of activities, full of action, which will not have to put 160 million schilling into self-advertisement, as the social democratic government members of the previous federal government had to do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Kostelka! They come out and scribble an advertisement by the Austrian Federal Government in the order of 600 000 p.m. Mr. Kostelka! [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Why? Is the Haider in the Federal Government?]] The Austrian Federal Government – and above all the Social Democratic government members – spent 163 million Schilling in 1998 on self-advertising. [[Aha! - Call the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor's Office alone has spent 32 million Schilling for the ORF and the Minister of Transport for his campaign "Rail instead of Traffic Slaves" 16 million Schilling! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unmistakable!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: For self-advertising!]] It's over now! Stop it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The "standard" of course also gets away quite well: Federal Chancellor's Office 2.7 million Schilling, and the Ministry of Transport has also paid a lot. [[The speaker keeps graphics up to date.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: What did Mr Bartenstein spend?]] There have been advertisements in the "FORMAT", only red government members spend money on advertising brochures. At "NEWS" there were 10.8 million Schilling, 3.4 million of them from the Federal Chancellery and 2.5 million from the Minister of Transport. [[Abg. Edlinger: Oh, you're blind on one eye! Blind on the right eye!]] It's like a red thread. You will also see here: The proportion of black ministries was very low. Everything you used from the SPÖ for self-advertising, and you are ready to go out here and criticize an advertisement over 600 000 S, where you have powdered 160 million schilling last year! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And the whole thing goes a little further in self-advertising. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is going to be expensive with the ophthalmologist! 20 per cent self retention!]] Minister of Finance Edlinger! You've always said you're the great spa master of the Republic, but you can't do anything if your boardmates used all the money. You have always blamed the ÖVP politicians first and foremost, but the socialist government members have always been leading and world champions in self-advertising. The Federal Chancellor has only sent 8.6 million schilling to the "Kronen Zeitung" so that he can be pictured with his wife and the dog on the front page so that paid vote advertising can be made with taxpayers' money. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Ah so, that's why! That explains a lot!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are the photos already there?]] And this is the criticism of ours, and these things are now being abandoned! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The "Kurier" must have done something, because the "Kurier" received only 1.7 million schilling in contrast to the "Kronen Zeitung", which was designed with 8.6 million schilling. So the "Kurier" probably didn't write as good and good as the then Federal Government wanted. Also the "standard", the "press" and others are of course used accordingly. In any case, Mr Edlinger, that is the estate you left behind! And with this estate the new Federal Government now has to deal with one day. [[Abg. Edlinger: They're lucky!]] And now we're making a status. Status number one: As Minister of Finance, I have always appreciated you politically, Mr Edlinger, but your departure from the Ministry of Finance was unworthy. It is not a question of a Finance Minister leaving the Ministry without carrying out an orderly handing over to his successor. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! It is also not possible that, as it happened, a week before files are sent out of the Ministry of Finance. Hiefor there are witnesses, that's what happened. Which files are these? If the public records are, then they have to be returned to the Ministry of Finance. We want to take a look at the fact that we finally want to make a case crash, which really brings the facts to light. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is common practice that the opposition at a government declaration is blaming, that is logical, and the representatives of the government parties of this good government program naturally want to sell positively. And this government program is good, but we were now in a forced situation because you have handed over a budget that makes measures necessary for the year 2000 in the order of 45.5 billion schilling, for the year 2001, if you do nothing, measures in the order of 60.9 billion schilling, 2002 of 65.9 billion schilling and 2003 63.3 billion schilling. These are the numbers from your ministry. [[Abg. Edlinger: These are my numbers!]] That's your numbers. This is not a budget, Mr Finanzminister, but a disaster that you have handed over! And that's the problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And now the new federal government had to look at how to clean up this budget. First of all, we need to take stock of what measures this budget is capable of reorganising without extraordinarily burdening the population, as you have done in recent years with more tax revenue in the order of over 150 billion schilling. That was not the way of the Freedom Party. That is why, together with Mr Molterer, we have tried to improve this budget primarily with expenditure-side measures. Only when we saw that this is not possible – and I have to admit that – have we also decided on necessary tax revenue, but at least we have taken out the horrors of this paper that you originally negotiated with your partner, above all the increase of the mineral oil tax. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On the one hand, we want to reorganise this budget by increasing revenue in the order of around 8 billion schilling and, on the other hand, by reducing expenditure and, on the other hand, by taking targeted measures to secure Austria's economic location in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a multi-stage plan for these target measures. The first measure is that we want to reduce the additional wage costs by 2003 in a scale of 15.1 billion schilling. A very important measure is to reduce the contribution to the insolvency payment fund from 0.7 to 0.4 percent. This means a discharge of 3.2 billion schilling for the Austrian economy. We want to reduce the contributions to accident insurance from 1.4 per cent to 1.2 per cent. This means a further discharge of 1.7 billion. And we also reduce the contributions to unemployment insurance by 0.5 percent, because we want to finance the family compensation fund. This is again a saving of 2.3 billion. On the other hand, we are of course in mind to make indirect ecologisation of the tax system with a comprehensive budgetary policy already in 2003, in the form that we want to use more tax revenue for an apprenticeship initiative according to the Carinthian model, making 3 billion schilling available to the Austrian economy. - That's the one area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second area concerns privatisation. We take privatisation seriously, and I cannot understand that the two board members of the ÖIAG said yesterday: The one and the other, you can't! Every economic economy tells you: Wherever the state has its fingers inside, the price value of the shares is 50 percent lower than the true value. Only the privatisation announcement from the new Federal Government, which should all happen in this area, has already triggered yesterday a purchase boost on the stock exchange, which resulted in the ATX rising by 3.3 percent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the measures that need to be put in place, and we also intend to implement them. In this context, we do not want to download everything from the federal government, but we also want to invite countries to work constructively with the federal government on these financing measures in the context of the next financial compensatory negotiations. [[Abg. Leikam: You don't believe what you're saying! Adventure!]] We will invite the countries and municipalities to privatise the state owners. We will invite the countries to make housing aid a new, reasonable instrument to ensure the reliability and we will try to agree on a change from the promotion of property to the promotion of the subject with the countries in order to make money available for other purposes and not for any country financing that is absolutely deprived of federal sovereignty. These are the problems we want to address. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not want to make a policy from above, and that has also rightly expressed Wolfgang Schüssel: He wants to involve all those involved. No one should be pushed in the head. All negotiators will be informed beforehand. The aim is to find ways with all the negotiators to improve the economic upturn and the employment situation in Austria. I am sure that we can achieve the new goals with new actions, and I wish this Federal Government a warm welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6390	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6411	Mr President. Members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I would like to raise three points: firstly, the saving objective mentioned in the Government Declaration and my criticism of the way in which it is implemented; secondly, the validity of electoral promises and the breaking of the same; and lastly, because I consider the most important and important question, I would like to repeat the question of political style and the climate here in the house and in society. First of all: the savings target you announced. I think there is no one here in the house who would not be interested in Austria running a consolidated budget policy, trying to bring the state budget in order and keep it, just: The accents you have set speak a very clear language. I think we agree that the withdrawal of a resort, which does not change anything in the short term or in the short term, does not save anything. That means if They announce the strike of ministries under the title of savings target, then, I think, this is, on the one hand, a certain error; on the other hand, it is of course also a manifestation of this coalition, which resorts or resort areas have fallen away or are included in another department area. There's the first thing about the environment. We know that this is an area which is still too short at the legal level, a so-called cross-sectional matter, which must fit into all other sectors, often has to be subordinated to them. Instead of upgrading this area or, as you have said, Mrs Vice-Chancellor is not here, to upgrade the materials of popular desire, the opposite is the case: The environment sector is shifted to the agendas of the agricultural sector, and this makes it impossible for the necessary balance of interests, which is already somewhat poor and obscene. This dominates an interest, and it is not the ecological! And we have strong criticism of that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Jobs!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: The government parties have already agreed to lunch!]] Secondly, Mrs Fekter, on the subject of women's policy. Unfortunately, you are right when this area has been treated stepmotherly already in the past legislative periods. There was never a real women's resort, there was a woman's minister, but he was a minister in the Federal Chancellery. A long call for the Austrian women's movement was to create its own ministry of women, independent and equipped with its own voice. What to do You're just after a successful women's people's desire? – The ministry is falling away! And then begins a search for shelter for the departments that are concerned, and the message to be conveyed with it is: These materials and therefore the Austrian women have to subordinate themselves to other resort areas! I guarantee you: The Austrian women will not accept this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I find an area particularly difficult, namely the fate of active labour market policy. I believe – without really reviewing all the European legal systems now – that Austria is now creating something unique, namely that the core area of a modern social policy, namely active labour market policy, whose aim must be to reduce, eliminate and help disadvantaged groups – and that is an independent interest – is being remitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Without economy, there is no active labour market policy!]] Mrs Brinek, in no European country, as far as I am aware of the legislation, this most important task of social policy is carried out by the economic sector. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Without economics, there is no work at all, Mrs. Colleague! Without economy, there is no active labour market policy at all! That's ridiculous!]] That is not possible either, because the economic sector has other tasks! A balance of interests, which is best ensured by two different votes in the government, is not at all your concern. I think that this subordination of labour market policy under economic policy is also affecting Austria in the European context. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You can't prove that!]] To the goal of saving, because you always say it's all possible, you allow women the freedom of choice: The figures are known to you, and they have been made known to Parliament in official replies from the former Federal Government as official data. And you know, ladies and gentlemen: Unfortunately, there is no freedom of choice, and this is at the expense of women who want to be employed who have a right to it. And I think there would also be an interest in the economy in the important contributions of Austrian women. In an answer to a question, the House has been informed that 50,000 women – which has been raised by the labour market authorities; there is certainly still a high number of women who did not have any contact with the authorities, so there are at least 50 000 women – cannot be employed, although they want to, because of the lack of infrastructure, infrastructure in the sense of mobility, and public mobility – many women do not have a car – and infrastructure within the meaning of childcare facilities. They know as well as I do how difficult it was to put up 600 million schilling for the expansion of kindergartens and childcare places, which there were tuitions. Originally 1 billion schilling was promised, then the amount is reduced to 600 million schilling. And now, at once for a non-work market-related measure, for a measure that does not increase freedom of choice, but brings women to a very specific, ideological picture, to have 6 billion schilling or even more available. Ten times as much as for kindergartens? Where is that supposed to come from? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because we want to leave the children with the mothers!]] Isn't that pure ideology? Mrs Fekter! How did you like this in the election campaign when your coalition partner's advertising slogans were announced: German grips tagesmutterfree! Is that the political goal? Is that freedom of choice? No mother-in-law, no kindergarten?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Does this look like a modern woman, Mrs Fekter? I think that is a shame for a modern women's policy! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! Both! We are here for pluralism and not for one-sided consideration! Pluralism is in demand!]] You can't hear. The Federal Government's answer was: At least 50 000 women today have no freedom of choice, and it seems that these women are not concerned with you. These women would like to work, and there are companies they want to recruit, but the Federal Government does not want to do so because it is pursuing a very specific image of women, which is an image of the Biedermeier and the last century, but not the image of a modern Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But please look at the women on the government bank!]] Mrs Fekter, I do not know if you know the European guideline 19 in the social field. This reads: Women's participation must be increased. It is not an objective of this federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Sure! Read the program! Page 34 of the coalition package says exactly the opposite of what you are now saying!]] Lip confession to a modern Europe, but then do the opposite, I call it anti-European. I am sorry for Austria and the young Austrians! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On point two: Breaking election promises. There have often been harsh debates in this House about tax packages, the Greens have had severe criticism, but usually the louder, the more harsh criticism the liberals have practiced. They have spoken of any increase in taxes, taxes, contributions as "tax-laws", as "attack", I don't know what everything means, they have always spoken of "melk cows" in terms of mobility in road transport – it was not my diction, but it has often fallen in this House – and there was even a request from the liberals, in which, when under the break of election promises, taxes are increased, which should only be possible if the laws with which taxes are increased are subject to a referendum. Unfortunately, Mrs Vice-Chancellor is still not here, but I would like to know how she keeps it with direct democracy or how the Federal Chancellor holds it. These were requests from your coalition partner here in the house – and now: Health tax, electricity tax, higher vignette price. So how does it look with the implementation of promises? Are we going to vote for it, or are we forgetting these requests? How do you feel about that? I think the Greens have always said uncomfortable truths. We have always been quite open to two major changes in the tax system: on the one hand, for greater social justice – and that is to say a reduction in small and medium-sized income – Austria has long been no longer at the level of European standards, especially in the field of capital and wealth taxation. It would be social justice to tax more where real wealth, where genuine luxury is, is in favour of small and medium-sized incomes. There I miss every accent in this program, and I think that just parties who have taken action to relieve the "small" people whom they so called, should do away with this great injustice. The second important emphasis in the tax system, which we have always required, is ecologisation – but revenue-neutral, i.e. a shift. Here too: discharge mainly of small and smallest incomes and instead a moderate and slowly built-up energy taxation. – What you are doing here has nothing to do with ecologizing the tax system, but is a pure money acquisition action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With that on my third point, on the political climate – I think this is also the most important point and the most important point of interest in Germany and abroad. I do not want to measure you now in terms of things that may lie behind you for a very long time, perhaps, Mr Bundeskanzler, the coalition partner has promised me that there will now be a new style, a new policy – and this has often been conjured today – but I want to measure you by what has been said and done in the election campaign, by members of this Federal Government or this House, in actions that have been set up, until yesterday, until today. Federal Chancellor! I am not aware of the fact that members of the Federal Government, like the Minister of Defence, the newly elected clubman of the liberal parliament club, or the security spokesman, in some way would have distanced themselves from this pamphlet. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] These are actions that have been committed, and this has caused so much hatred, insecurity and also fear of the people who have affected it, so that the damage will still be noticeable for a long time. Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mrs. Vice chancellor! What is meant by the fact that in German reading books our children are sometimes forced on Turkish and Serbian texts? Please, in which schoolbooks? – First of all, this is incorrect and second: What is this, then, for a position of members of the government, the children who live in this city, apparently no longer understand than our children, who already create a border with the children, limit children who have been born here who go to school here? Are children who may be called Kukacka, Kiss, Morak, Petrovic or Hojac, not our children? What limits are there being created? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Then tell me what's meant by "our children to whom you force anything"! – First of all, this is wrong and second: What is meant or what is meant by such a brochure, if not to sow hatred and discord? What's the point? – Information is not because it is wrong. So what's to be done with it? And above all: How can you say that this is a new start, a new start and a new style when this paper is in the room? Or what do you say about it when it is said here – even falsely – and this corresponds to a very specific ideology and intention: The Greens in Vienna would think that they do not need to promote the domestic families because thousands of foreign families are waiting at our borders with their children anyway? – I think you, as Foreign Minister, have often traveled across the borders of this country. I don't know if you've seen thousands of families waiting there; I haven't seen them. But here's a particular picture created: People are presented as a danger, perhaps like a force of nature, such as a flood over this land. The intention of such fearmakers' parallels is clear: It should be polarized, it should be split in a country where the names in this House also prove that it is a multicultural country whose identity is a multicultural country. You have to make a statement about this! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That was the election campaign, and it was actions! And there are pictures of people who are now in the Federal Government, here in this prospectus. I don't think this could happen against their will or without their knowledge. So with this backpack, with this ballast a new start is not possible, that is excluded. But it goes even further: 26. January 2000, FPÖ-Klubobfrau Tazl from Salzburg in connection with the project to conduct a Love-Parade after Vienna, according to Berlin's model also in Salzburg, an event against discrimination and for a colorful, multicultural togetherness of all in this society. How does the liberal club woman express themselves? – A useless new trap for the left scene. The city of Salzburg is invited to protect its inhabitants and especially the young people from these criminal elements. Tazl opposes the official approval of this event. - Quote. – Well, I can only say, bravo! This street culture of young people is really a European renewal. There all these young people – as you do now with all the thousands of peaceful demonstrators – are being criminalized. It means indifferent "before these criminal elements", just as it happens here. That's incredible! I would also ask for clarification here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or: At yesterday's meeting – at yesterday's meeting! – Mrs Pittermann, whose family history, I think, is known to many in this House and who have been outraged by the freedom of participation in the Federal Government to seek professional assistance. This is a replica of Mrs Partik-Pablé's! In clear text: One doubts their mental health. - That's incredible! I mentioned this with hard but correct words. I give this to you, Federal Chancellor, the reaction of your coalition partner to my address: You're stupid, you're a wire-drawer of terror. – Is that the new style of this government? You, Federal Chancellor, have announced You won't tolerate such a thing. My question: What's going to be You're doing it? – You're in a kind of hostage now: Now, in these surveys, do you want to get out of the government alliance? What's going on? - Please answer me! What to do You there? It happened yesterday, not sometime! And lastly, the attack on the free media: What if, on the day of this German government's fishing, perhaps some or some unloving journalist, who has already written critical comments on all sides, loses his job? What happened? – There are climate change in progress. Mr. Federal Chancellor, this is not just about laws. This is a climate that has been created in the tradition of such pamphlets. And I claim that you do not have the power to control this climate because you have a coalition partner who is not interested in a climate of co-operation, tolerance and peaceability. And that's sad for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6638	Mrs Partik-Pablé referred to an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6659	Mrs Petrovic has accused me of recommending Mrs Pittermann to use professional assistance to deal with her problem. – That’s absolutely wrong! I said in a completely different context and also at a time – I quote here –: "My dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party! I realize it's very difficult to say goodbye. After 30 years of government it is very difficult to say Adieu's power. But You are wrong in dealing with the problem, you should really use professional help... instead of thinking about what mistakes you made, which has led you to have catapulted yourself out of the government..." That's not in any connection with Mrs. Dr. Pittermann! [[Abg. Edlinger: Now you want to know all of us psychiatric! I'm so sorry about what you're saying! Shame on you, Mrs. Deputies. That's scandalous!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Moreover, it is really no shame to recommend to someone, for example, a management advice that you urgently need to deal with your frustration!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6701	The next speaker was Mr Günter Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e6722	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! I believe the message of the constituency of the 3rd. October 1999 was a very clear and simple [[Abg. Huber: To the ÖVP!]] It was the voters' clear wish for political renewal. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I mean, we should respect the electorate, Mrs Colleague, even if it may hurt you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We live in a parliamentary democracy, that is, we have a desire to respect the electorate's will. And democracy means finding a majority. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know it hurts to say goodbye after 30 years of power. That hurts. Nevertheless, we should confess: Democracy is a good that we should not put at risk by polemics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I really want to congratulate the new government. I think you would have this constituency of the 3rd. October cannot be more precise and clearer than with this heading for today's declaration of government: "Rerule Austria." That was the will of the voters, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What has happened is a normal, natural process in every Western democracy, namely that the electorate decides, and then parliamentary majority voting is sought. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am sorry, Mr President, that your party may have had the will, but at least not the political power to link such a package of renewal with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bauer: You didn't want to negotiate properly!]] I am actually grateful to Mr Nürnberger – I say this quite openly – in fact. As a member of the negotiating team and as a leading trade union of a free trade union, he did not do what happened to us during the previous legislative period, but he did not sign the agreement, which many who have negotiated intensively for weeks did not call it very fair. [[Abg. May. Posch: And how is my colleague Neugebauer's attitude?]] What do I mean by that? – I prefer this, ladies and gentlemen, than what we have experienced here in the House during the 1997 pension reform. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Road pricing!]] All of you have signed by the Socialists. And then what was in Parliament? – As a member of the Committee, as a member of the Committee on Finance, I had to experience that we had to interrupt both committees for three hours until the Federal Board of Directors of the ÖGB at the same time gave the green light, ladies and gentlemen. Why? - Because your clubman Peter Kostelka told us: No matter what is agreed, the SPÖ club can only agree if the ÖGB agrees. [[Deputies Dr. Fekter and Dr. Khol:Yes, it was!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Instead, go to the hostage of your new coalition partner!]] There we were hostageed by the socialist trade unionist, Mrs Colleague. And it is your problem if you are being hostageed by your trade unions as SPÖ, but as a parliamentarian, I do not want to be hostageed by trade unionists, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! It is an old basic rule of Parliament that, as a rule, the volume increases when the arguments are weak. You prove it again! They prove this basic rule again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me also say: I'm the last one who doesn't confess to innocence. For me, German Chancellors a. D. Viktor Klima also have the presumption of innocence, as long as there is no evidence on the table. But I have to say [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are you forcing?]] What in Stockholm on 26 and 27. Yes, actually happened, we would be really interested. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what the squats of the roofs are whistling!]] I am not suggesting to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that he has initiated this initiative! But at least he did not succeed in convincing his social-democratic state and government friends that they had made a distorted Austrian image at international level, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Schieder: The Austrian image you have to attribute to yourself above all and your receipt of FPÖ into a government!]] Mr. Schieder, let us look at what has been written, for example, by the prestigious "New Zurich newspaper" on social democracy and the change of power. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote the "New Zurich Newspaper" on Friday, 4th. February: “In almost all countries of the European Union, social democrats rule.” So it was self-confident to read in the Blair Schröder paper to the ‘third way’ – a fact that could not be disputed. So far, it was not a problem to stay longer. But if a country now sends itself to correct the trend and, after free and open elections, to finally throw a social-democratic government party into the opposition after long years of founding rule, the comrades defend themselves in European government and let the muscles play." All "New Zurich Newspaper"! And by the way, it says: "A threat campaign is staged, the street is mobilized, the moral disarmament is provoked, the European "value community" is conjured. Even skiing in Austria is declared a mortal sin." [[Abg. May. Kogler: And Chirac has now joined the Trotskyist International!]] This is an assessment of the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" of power change and social democracy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. As one who has always, even in this House, for many, many years for Europe, joined the European Union, who has done a lot in his former and present role to advance this European integration process, I also very much regret that today, leading journalists of our country, for example Christian Ortner, editors of "FORMAT", have commented on the EU's behaviour in his last editorial as follows. I quote Christian Ortner, one of the most prestigious journalists of the younger generation [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why don't you quote from the last "profile"?]] "The procedure took place behind closed doors without hearing the accused, the offence was not named, there is no appeal agency: The way in which the fourteen EU partners of Austria discussed their subsequent judgment on the Republic on the last weekend... reminds us more of the use of a Serbian secret court than of those rule of law to which the fourteen governments seem to claim to be guilty." – I do not say that, Mr Christian Ortner, a respected journalist in the editorial of the last issue of his magazine. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Inquisition was that!]] That should give us some thought! What I draw from all this is: The Socialist International is still working perfectly, ladies and gentlemen. I need to make this compliment to you. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: And your international even wanted to exclude you!]] Unfortunately, unfortunately, to the detriment of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What pleases me, however, is that the government programme presented to us today by the Federal Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, is that not only is the guiding principle "Rerule Austria" but it is very concrete. I say quite frankly, first of all, I am pleased that something has been eliminated, which has bothered me for years, which for me actually had an almost class struggle root: the distribution of resources, here the Ministry of Social Affairs, that must necessarily be a trade unionist, and since the capital, the economy, it must be one that the economy accepts. The solution now being taken into account, the idea of "only economic creation of work" and "economic and labour are a unity" is something to be said of: Unfortunately, we have not achieved such a distribution of resources together with the integrated Ministry of Education, together with a generation ministry, together with a Ministry of Infrastructure, such a division of expertise – I am sorry to say, ladies and gentlemen from the Socialist Group – with you. However, we need this distribution of competence in view of the challenge of the 21st century. I am pleased that this government has succeeded in shaping government policy in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, I am pleased to see the great package of wage reduction, which is not about taking away someone who is not concerned with the state of the economy being given money, but only with reducing the burden on the economy she herself carries, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: And who's up for the cost?]] [[Abg. Silhavy: And who pays the 15 billion schilling?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am very happy about this – and I also said this in the debate on tax reform in 2000 – that the topic of additional wage reduction has not been solved in the framework of tax reform 2000. In this context, the question was discussed: If we relieve work, what do we put on it? We have always said that it is not a retransmission of burdens, it is about remissions of work. This is the case if you really take "jobs, job creation" seriously, Mrs. Colleague, and not only exhausted in speech bubbles. [[Abg. Silhavy: Cost neutrality!]] If you take this seriously, the financial relief of work means. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Edlinger! I am also pleased with incredibly innovative approaches to social policy. The new model to turn the process into a contribution to the long-term protection of old age benefits is a quantum leap in social policy. This is the social policy of the 21st century. century, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On social justice, on the approximation of workers and employees, we have always known ourselves, on condition that: Cost neutrality, no new burden on the economy. This is also achieved in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen. This is modern social policy, not to say, all of it unilaterally at the expense of the economy. We're all the economy. Only the economy creates jobs, and only the economy can guarantee social peace and social stability in the long term, because without jobs there can be no social peace and no social stability in a country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Eder: Who pays the reduction of additional wage costs?]] Mr Eder! Because you're just coming out of this area: What does the total liberalisation of the gas and electricity market mean? – This means cost relief for the economy, cost relief for businesses. It is a necessary measure. So far, we have had a location disadvantage in this area. Many foreign companies have said, especially in benchmarking comparisons: In Austria, energy is too expensive. We now come to a reduction in energy prices. We are thus improving the conditions for investing in jobs in Austria, Mrs Colleague. The whole package of red tape reduction, freeing the economy from previous bonds, is also something that makes us more attractive, which makes the country more attractive again, ladies and gentlemen! To be honest, we must admit: The development of recent years in some laws such as working time law, labour rest law, shop opening has actually reversed the legal principle, which otherwise applies in general – "it is allowed everything that is not prohibited" –. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Everything at the expense of the workers!]] It is all forbidden, which is not expressly permitted. That's where we need action. The rule of law applies to us, it is permitted to do everything that is not prohibited. That is the Charter of Economic Freedoms, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: It is first of all about the freedom of individual people!]] These are the challenges of the 21st century. ==References== And this government – and I am convinced of this – is becoming the challenges of the 21st century with the parliamentary support we have shown today. ==References====External links== I wish the entire government a great deal of success!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7118	Mrs. Elisabeth Gehrer is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7142	Mr President. High house! I would like to make a few very personal observations at the beginning of a new age in government work in Austria. As a result of the response to this kind of government, I have some fundamental questions. I was always convinced that parties in a democratic country have a democratic legitimacy. – And I mean, that must remain the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I was always convinced that democratically elected parties, if they have a corresponding majority, are also entitled to form a government. – And that must remain the same! I was always convinced that democratically elected ambassadors, including those in opposition, work exclusively for the benefit of the voters and voters and exclusively for the benefit of their country. – And that must remain the same! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say it honestly: I am affected by some of the reactions of Members here in this House. I am concerned when the former Minister of Finance, Mr Edlinger, calls us "pension demolier". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Unheard!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: These were his own proposals!]] He knows very well that no one who is in retirement now has something to fear that there is no pension reduction for existing pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He also fully knows that it is necessary to take measures to ensure that workers who are now on the labour market receive a pension later. As a former finance minister, he knows that very well. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also affected by the demonstrations, especially by the violence. I would like to make a very clear distinction: I want to distinguish between those people who have fears and worries and those who are violent. Those who are violent shall take the normal legislative measures necessary. [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, the Freeman and the Deputies of the SPÖ.]] I'd like to invite those who have fears and concerns. I'd like to invite them to sit down with us at a table. Let us talk to each other, we discuss hard and open! I invite them to work with us for our beautiful country. Above all, I invite everyone to disarm the words. Work with the projects and take us to the floor! [[Abg. Edler: Talk to the Christian trade unions once!]] I would particularly like to understand these statements as a message to all our EU partner countries. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a good starting point. Austria is a tolerant country; we have developed it together. We have a good economic development and a high quality education system. The further development of a society depends on whether new answers are found to new challenges. Ladies and gentlemen! They can convince themselves: This government programme has found new answers to the new challenges. In this government programme, there is a new, target-oriented budget rate to reduce the deficit. There is a social justice programme to ensure that pensions are guaranteed so that families have incomes so that people can find jobs so that workers can find better conditions in our country. The new Ministry of Education, Knowledge and Culture is a signal. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Who has far exceeded his budget?]] [[Abg. Edler: Overburdened by 6.8 billion!]] It is a signal for a new start in education and signals start and future. We will have plenty of opportunity to discuss the content of the education programme. I would just like to mention a few main points: the diversity in our schools, the modern training offer and the permeability. We will be the first step in the professional maturity test to increase recognition so that there is even more permeability. The transition to seam sites is easier because all educational institutions are in a ministry. We will improve this transition to seam points through better forecasting procedures. We will work on a new school culture, on educational agreements between all the school partners. We have undertaken to advance the technology offensive with a "computer billion" and to continue the focus on foreign language offensive. We want to make 40 percent of a year of age grow in good apprenticeship training in the future, and we will develop a modern teacher service law, a teacher service right with recognition of the high performance of the teacher and with a redistribution of the quality of life. We will lead universities in the university sector to a real independence with a global budget. We will also improve the opportunities for young academics to compete with scientific careers. We will further expand the technical colleges, and we will strengthen cooperation between universities, research and technology so that our educational institutions in international competition can become even more competitive. We will also set up a Council for Research and Technology, which sets priorities and identifies important research topics for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Education and cultural policy will make an important contribution, an important contribution to the renewal of all areas – including the renewal of relations, the achievement of a new capacity for dialogue, the safeguarding of openness and diversity on a democratic basis. Ladies and gentlemen in this House: I invite all of you to cooperate constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7260	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7281	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the new Federal Government! High house! I would just like to add a very brief addition to the honourable Member: It is difficult to talk about viewed quotations by forgetting Aznar, Chirac or others who are not members of social democracy. If you're already quoting, please don't give up, then over the entire bandwidth in this context! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel meant this morning, the Austrians do not know exactly what is coming. I believe that this debate here provides enough opportunity to obtain the appropriate knowledge. This is not quite easy, however, because there are very differences between what is stated in the Government Declaration and what has been presented here today and what is in the government programme of the ÖVP and the FPÖ. I do not believe that it is in line with the voter's will, for example, if this programme states that in reality no comprehensible measures against the trend "Too old for work and too young for the pension" are available. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is nothing in this programme. What can be found is the hint of being able to retire later. This is true of vintages from 1940, women from the year 1945. What you are planning here is the continuation of the fact that one does not want to solve the labour market problem, but still leaves people in trouble. You can read that. It is said, for example, that long periods of insurance are not affected. Page 29, third chapter: Discount payments for all those who retire before the regular retirement age. Rule age: 60 in women, 65 in men. So we're not talking about the fact that there's no bullets! Discounts of up to 40 percent are planned in this case for a lifetime, ladies and gentlemen. You shouldn't forget that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Up to 40 percent?]] Yeah, cumulative! I think that, as my previous speaker said just before, one does not think of existing pensions, moreover: What else does it mean if, on page 29 of the Government Declaration, pensioners also want to increase pension contributions by 0.8 percent? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was agreed with the SPÖ!]] So pensioners are also asked to check out. Pensioners are also asked to check out! Don't forget to say this, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I already know that this may require some clarification, but also on page 28 of the Declaration of Government: Self-hold – without the clues that come right now or there. The most tragic thing is that the way is to continue to leave the solidarity between employers and employees. Self retention is a one-sided burden – with the effects you all know: Pensioners 4 500 S more a year, Active 1 500 S more a year, without hospital stays. All of this is actually in there, and you should not ignore it. Working time of the economy adjusted. – This is also contained in this paper several times. Where, then, is the joint approach to flexible working time, which brings something to both? Fairness is confirmed, but in reality workers are supposed to pay it themselves and in addition to that, return 2 billion schilling of the economy. That's fairness as you understand it, but that's not fairness, as we understand it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As it is spoken of as "Treffsicherheit": It is already a trend which has been taking place over several years. It is always said that the workers are "social-smaroters". Let us also talk about the tax debts of meeting security! That's not where you're talking about meeting security. You are not talking about a fair compensation in relation to the existing tax debts. The workers "cashen" fix each month, there is no way out. How can there be a fair balance between those who owe taxes and those who pay on time? That would be a confidence I could sign, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And it's hard for you to believe in confidence, if this programme does not speak of undeclared work at all. There is nothing in there at all – as if there were no such thing. Where, then, is the common fight against black entrepreneurship so that at last we can put those who pay proper taxes, who work properly, like those who cheat on the state that cheat social security, ladies and gentlemen? I would very much welcome measures in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can continue. What is this for a future programme for women when they are told: Well, at the age of 45 you can go to bed early too!? – That was to think that we would have to introduce child labour for women, because women would have to start working with the tenth year of life to be able to reach 45 years of insurance at the age of 55, ladies and gentlemen. [[Objection of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] The self-holds that are inside, and in addition also the issue of the availability of trade workers, these are things you should consider – let alone what is quite up-to-date. I am thinking of those women who have now gone to the semester holidays after the new holiday quotas. They had to be back on their way today, because they had only two and a half days of holiday. This is a fact you should not ignore. Or to what you offer to the youth: Trial-time extensions, which delay uncertainty for young people, make a "day training time" – I quote – "up to 23:00"; read in your program. "Day training time until 23:00" is stated in your program. The ratios are decelerated, one does not want to make money available immediately to make the burden compensation between trainees and non-training firms, but perhaps in 2003. It remains unclear, as it is not clear in there, there is no way to be seen. It is also mentioned in this programme: Overall, we want to relieve the citizens of our country. – I note that this is a very one-sided discharge. For employers, farmers, houselords around 19 billion schillings on taxes, for workers 14 billion schillings on taxes. – These are facts that you cannot deny, because you only need to read your own program. And that's the red thread that's going through there. We had a line in our country for several decades: The economy has to serve man. – Now it seems that man has to serve the economy at the lowest prices, at worse conditions than before. Ladies and gentlemen! This continues under the title "New Ministry competence": For business and work, a location minister, not only responsible for the economy, but also for the working world. What does that mean? – The entire employment contract law is now dealt with by the Minister of Employment. All workers' rights are dealt with by the Minister of State. I imagine, on the one hand, how he treats the freedom of the economy, called the Economic Charter, and on the other hand, how he treats workers' rights accordingly. Labour and business constitution law is dealt with by the Minister for Employment and Employment, collective legal formation is the responsibility of the Minister for Employment and Employment, as well as the establishment of wage rates. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen. Not to mention labour market policy, availability and unemployment insurance. However, the crown is still set on this – probably not necessarily important to the population –: The Minister of the Interior also receives the supervision of the Chambers of Workers. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] We have had something like this in Austria: in the state of the stand. We should remember that this was not just a target. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have never had such good conditions – and the success programme of the exodus government has already been very clearly addressed today – but why do we not use these good conditions to keep people in employment for 40 years and over? Why don't we use these good conditions to give people a chance, instead of raising their retirement age, that they can actually be employed longer, not in such a way as to threaten fees and contributions, but in such a way that an improvement can really be achieved? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still groups in our population who are not at all able to cope with the increase in retirement age, for example pilots who have to stop at 60. - I'm excited what you're saying to them. Maybe: That's right! You can't practice your profession anymore, but we're raising the retirement age. Social justice, ladies and gentlemen, I understand differently. More fairness yes, but please do not have to pay the fairness itself, while the companies are given 2 billion more schilling, and about the cancellations can then be spoken sometime later. Yes – but then please also for those who never come to a finish in seasonal occupations. Moreover, there is no expropriation of the claim, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I said finish yes, but then we'll talk about it further. Our demand is known: Dealing from the first day, and you will have to answer it. Mr Khol has said that the Christian trade unionists wish a warm welcome! ... – You as a Christian trade unionist. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I am a Christian trade unionist! That's something else!]] I can tell you that you as a Christian trade union have a minority opinion, because the Christian trade unionists and the Caritas have a completely different opinion, and I can then tell you the opinion of the Christian trade unionists afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about this country, I also quote an advertisement, also issued by those responsible for the economy. It can't be so bad about the economy if you advertise in international business newspapers: Come to Austria, because you stay 82.33 percent of the winnings. It really can't be so bad about the economy in our country, although it's always said that it's all negative. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion: The trade union movement sees this programme as a unilateral burden programme across all party borders, including with your friends, Mr. Khol, whoever it is. We do not have a community of strains between ÖVP and FPÖ, but there is a common attitude to this programme across all parties. We judge regardless of political currents... [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is new!]] The ÖGB always – unlike some who are active in the economy! [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is something new! That's where the chickens smile!]] We judge regardless of political currents, we measure you by your actions – whether you want them or not. Therefore, a clear no to these proposals, but a clear yes if you change your way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7471	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7492	Mr President. Dear Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, what you have just presented in your speech was, I believe, a one-time spagate between a representative of the Socialist Group, who is totally advocating and denying the Climate Change Package, and an independent president of the Trade Union Confederation. I have not heard such a speech from you in the last ten years. I would like to stress this here in order to make clear how "independent", "overpartial" and "without" color markings you have been acting here as a trade unionist here in the House until now. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And something else, Mr. Vergestnich: If you think that the "Action Fairness" was not meant as it is presented today in the government program, I can read to you what is in the Edlinger Climate Paper, which has been blessed by your board of directors. That's what it says: Action Fairness: Payment in case of illness, aliquotation of holiday. – This is the same thing that this Federal Government is now planning. Mr Vergebnissch! You are obviously not interested in having talks with this Federal Government. I must do so in view of the situation that the former Minister of Social Affairs today, on the day of the Declaration of Government, will certainly accept the difficult, delicate and human problem of social policy at the altar of an opportunistic request. I believe that this is a bad signal from an official to her successor. Social policy in this country should be done almost in calm waters, in common, partnership negotiations – in all the different positions that exist. In the interests of the entire population of this state and to ensure social peace in that state, social policy should also be safeguarded and further developed under this Federal Government. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] We shall see, Mr President, how far you are prepared or not prepared with your trade unionists of all political groups. . The signal of today makes me thinkful, Mr President Vergestnich. It is also the question of the treatment of women by this Federal Government at the heart of today's debate, and I would like to ask you: Is there no additional incentive for guaranteed 18 months of pensionable time and four more years for the recognition of pensions for women? Have you also forgotten all the projects relating to pensioners, Mr Verzehnitsch? Are 0.8 percent pension insurance contributions, defined by this Federal Government, compared to 0.95% pension insurance contribution, defined in the already mentioned Edlinger climate paper – to be read there too – no improvement by 0.15% in the interest of pensioners? Ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the truth! Of course, we are obliged – and this is also in the interest of balancing generations, also in the interest of young people who are protesting against this federal government in Austria today and are going to retire in 35 or 40 years – to secure the Austrian pension system in the long term. Federal Minister A. D.! You know exactly what you're saying: They themselves formulated on television an increase in the retirement age by two years. This Federal Government will be set up in this area for a year and a half instead of two years. We keep our promise! We will look at the "little" man in our state, and we have therefore pulled the worst "tens" of your paper. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, the following must be said to the Austrian population: We will not create the square of the circle here, and we will be able to compensate for the burdens you have left and your lack of competence in recent years, namely your lack of competence to implement what you have promised the Austrians – to save more than 60 percent of the expenditure on the budget and to obtain only 30 or 33 percent by means of burdens. You have received the corresponding report from the Court of Auditors and you have received the "blue letter" from the EU. Mr Edlinger! You know very well that the failure of your government, the next government, is now catching up with us. It is not funny to have to save what you have failed to do, but we will do it in the interest of the country – measured and socially balanced. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As Mr Vergestnitsch here said that there would have been no debate on the company's tax debts, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Who has included the Ministry of Finance? Who was the Minister of Finance? – I can’t remember seeing a Minister of Finance sitting here in the Austrian National Council in 14 years’ time as one of the seats of Social Democracy: Climate, Lacina, Edlinger, Vranitzky, if I can list them all here in non-chronological order. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Staribacher!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Stupid never knew anything, did he?]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must be rejected that one day after the formation of this federal government, you want to push into the shoes the failure of more than 14 years of Social Democratic Finance Ministers in this state of this Federal Government! Please think with measure and purpose about the question: Why have you failed in this office for 14 years? Why have you failed to achieve social equality in this area for 14 years and no social equal treatment? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you now ask what you yourself have done in half a century – almost if I have taken this into account the last 30 years before and have not done your place of business in this area in the Second Republic? Ladies and gentlemen! That's simple and simple polemic! That is simple and simple uncertainty! This serves nothing more than mobilizing people for the great demonstration – against better knowledge. This is not a conciliatory hand for cooperation, ladies and gentlemen. That's white polemics from here, and that's an aberration of one's own history and responsibility. [[Complaints with the liberals]] I would never have thought that a party that at the beginning of this legislative period was still proud of being the only one to have the barrier minority here in the House, on the same day that the Federal Government presents its programme, not only operates fundamental opposition, but also steals itself out of its own history and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen! That's bad style! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have also ventilated the question of how the current isolation of Austria has come to be. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the well-known aversion of Mr Mag. Climate against Dr. Haider, in his discussions, so beat through that at international level, it was not understandable that the Austrians should not be boycotted, but that climate only has no joy with Dr. Haider. We all knew that! Either it's Mag. The Federal Chancellor also did not allow the provisional government to protect this country – then I also understand why it is not going to debate here today – or, and that would be worse, it was not at all ready to be our country – in the interests of Austria! - to protect. Ladies and gentlemen! The former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the current parliamentary climate needs action, and we expect him to finally ask himself to the House and these questions here, because what he is doing today is to shine through abscess and to leave Austria in international isolation, I believe that an incomprehensible escape from responsibility! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, an Enlightenment will not be spared you! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where's Princehorn? Where did the Princehorn hide his hormones?]] [[More calls at the SPÖ:Where is Prinzhorn?]] [[Abg. Ritsmer: In hormone treatment!]] But there's nothing bad that doesn't have a good side either. In this case, it means: Those people in Austria who are interested in Austria and do not understand the attitude of Mr. Alt-Bundeskanzler, are increasingly solidifying themselves with this new federal government and give us a chance – also in the interest of an inborn fairness – to prove in the implementation that we are able to link a socially balanced package: socially balanced between men and women, between young and old and between generations who are in retirement, and the generations who are still going to school today and will only enter working life. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that this federal government will be re-elected by the Austrian population in three and a half years when this legislative period ends.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7629	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e7662	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor – absent! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor – no more! I hope, in the face of the emptying government bank, that a federal government of the "students and the skilled" will not be the Federal Government of the "returners and refugees", but that the Chancellor and the vice-channer will soon find the way back to the plenary session of the National Council where they should actually listen to the debate on the declaration of government. [[Rejoicing]] It is not necessarily good style to make a statement and then leave the hall like a quick one, but they may justify it themselves. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your We will have to discuss the question of sanctions of the European Union very precisely, very differentiated and very responsibly. There is a real danger that sanctions and the boycott will extend to sanctions against the Austrian population and to a boycott of the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You would like to see that!]] – The fact that this is not in Austrian interest is a matter of course. I also claim that this cannot be in the interests of the European Union, and it will be very much the behaviour of Austrian policy to convince the 14 partner states in Europe that it makes no sense at all to adopt measures that directly affect the economic existence of the people of that Republic. I say quite frankly to you: When representatives of a right-wing extreme party are included in a government, I have a political understanding that our partners in the other 14 countries of the EU say: We don't want anything to do with you at the political level. . This is a decision that is unfortunately not bad at all, because it is the first time that there is a takeover of power by a right-wing extreme party in the government of a Member State of the European Union. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Col. Pilz! When do you come up with something new? You gave that speech yesterday! They obviously taught them externally! You said all that yesterday!]] But we have to finally think about what we are replying to the owner of a small tourist farm from the Wipptal, which today, in the early morning, reported to me in the green club and said: With us comes one cancellation after another, from regular guests from Belgium, the Netherlands and France! Dr. Pilz! What are we gonna do? How is our economic existence going on? And what do we have to expect from the government? – What answer do you give? You these people? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] - You laugh! They laugh at the people who are rightly concerned today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If we are talking seriously about what this means to people who can't do anything for this government participation, then there are naughty laughters of the liberals and of the ÖVP delegates. This is white cynicism, that is white responsibilitylessness, and we really do not want to be involved in this responsibilitylessness. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Young: You might rather cry over your words!]] [[Abg. Kiss: You said all this yesterday, I can read it to you literally! You don't think anything new!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the Government Declaration, then there are two things: First of all, it is a declaration of government in which the government cannot explain how it intends to implement central points of it at all. Everything that goes beyond the borders of Austria presupposes a minimum degree of external action. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: And they just got you!]] Dr. Schüssel! To date, you have not been able to explain how you want to restore your ability to act in the face of a situation in which you have been put under quarantine internationally. You cannot explain how you want to conduct meaningful discussions and negotiations with partners who refuse to contact you. You can't explain how you can even contact Gerhard Schröder, Tony Blair, Jacques Chirac and many others. No one wants to talk to you! How do you want to represent Austria if no one listens to you anymore? - That's the first point. [[Abg. Kiss: Same talk as yesterday! You said the same thing yesterday as today! He only learned the role once, but plays it more often!]] And you're still unable to show a single way out of it. Then there is a second point, and this second point has to do with the substance of the Declaration of Government. When discussing a statement of government, it is very important not only to talk about what is inside but also about what is not in it. And I've been looking for a term in this government statement, and that's poverty. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Federal Chancellor spoke of poverty!]] In Austria, according to the Social Ministry's report, there are about one million people living at or below the poverty line. Alone in the Federal Capital Vienna has 350 000 people living at or below the poverty line! – Yes, there is also a huge responsibility for social democracy, because that is not something that has arisen in recent days. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Because the SPÖ has been ruling for 30 years!]] But I expect the fight against poverty from every federal government when it concerns a million people throughout the Republic and 350 000 in Vienna, of which 40 000 are children living at or below the poverty line in Vienna alone. But there's no word in the government program. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's why you live in the community building!]] And now, as an example, I am saying what is very well in it and what there is money for. It also starts with "A", but it's not poverty, it's called "absorbing hunters" and "air space monitoring". There's money for that! The Government Convention and today's Government Declaration make it clear that the Federal Government is making available funds for new aircraft to monitor airspace. [[Abg. Leikam: Mr. Graf! Do you still have the second municipal apartment?]] [[Abg.==References====External links== Leikam) Ask the Edellinger!]] [[Further calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Do you know that two seasons of modern interception hunters will cost about 15 billion schilling? In the face of a million people on or below the poverty line, how can you announce in a government statement that you have left 15 billion shilling for interception hunters?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How are you doing, and how do you want to make this clear to people?- Oh, my God! My proposal would be: Take the interceptors out and write in the fight against poverty! That would be one of the most beautiful improvements you could make to this government programme. I'm afraid you won't. Now to the government's ability to act. Mr Bundeskanzler, yesterday we asked you a urgent question, asked you detailed questions and received a series of elusive answers. The key question was: Why, in order to become Federal Chancellor, did you simply purchase the economic and political damage that has now been done? An answer – which has already been discussed today – could have meant this: For God's sake, we have not known what we have done, we have been completely surprised by the consequences! – That would be proof of a completely failed foreign policy and diplomacy, and not a very good reason why a foreign minister who has slept the most threatening development for Austria since 1945 must necessarily become Federal Chancellor. If he was not even able to do something in time against the threatening sanctions, why should he, with a similar sense of responsibility and professionally similar qualifications as the Federal Chancellor, lead the entire federal government, the entire state of Austria? But there is also a second answer: He knew everything, he deliberately bought it and misinformed the public. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You didn't listen yesterday!]] Now there is a proposal by Jörg Haider. We are rarely forced to discuss an objective proposal by Jörg Haiders seriously, but this time it makes sense. There is a proposal by Jörg Haider to set up an investigative committee to examine the events of recent weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! Since yesterday's reply or failure to answer the urgent question, we are very much in favour of this committee of inquiry, for there are only the events of the 31st century. January here in Vienna to investigate a number of things. – Yes, I am in favour of examining everything about the political responsibility of the former Federal Chancellor! We as the Green Group do not have the slightest reason to put ourselves before Social Democracy and to say that must not be examined. It's supposed to be examined! ==References====External links== Januaryn here in Vienna has happened. Yesterday, former Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel first provided an essential indication of the chronology of this day. Let me recapitulate: At 5 p.m., a party leader and at the time Foreign Minister went to the Federal President and negotiated. At 5.45 p.m., there is an APA report, which states that the Portuguese Presidency has imposed three sanctions. Shortly thereafter, the head of the party and then foreign minister from the president's office, before the international press, will be asked about this, says: I have not yet been able to study the APA message and can't say anything about it now! - and go. I have been researching at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have been researching at the Austrian Embassy in Lisbon and can now tell you a lot more. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Yesterday, for the first time, Dr. Schüssel publicly admitted that he had been informed of the sanctions by the Portuguese Foreign Minister at 1 p.m. [[Mr Kiss and Mr Großruck: 15 o'clock!]] Shortly thereafter, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs instructed the Austrian Ambassador to be introduced to Lisbon and to obtain the Portuguese Presidency's declaration. The Austrian Ambassador to Lisbon then asked the President's office and the Foreign Minister's office in Lisbon to make the text of the declaration available. Mr Schüssel is telling us today, as far as I can understand, that he was not able to inform us publicly of the content of the conversation with the Portuguese Foreign Minister on his way back from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany because he was bound by confidentiality. The Austrian Ambassador to Lisbon says, however, that the answer of the Presidency office in Lisbon was: Yes, we have already given the entire text to the press, of course you can also have it from us. – There has never been confidentiality, the Portuguese have given it to the public and the media. That is obviously not true. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Yes, and?]] [[Abg. Donabauer: You have an admirable imagination!]] We finally want to know what happened! Was it not true that the then Foreign Minister knew long ago that these sanctions were coming, and it was a race, according to the motto: If we get the signature and the consent of the President of the Federal Government to the formation of government so quickly that the sanctions come after, then at least we have the government, and somehow we are already going through, or is the European Union faster? Was this not, in fact, a race between the European Union with a threat of sanctions and an accelerated government? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The government was only praised on Friday!]] Are there any bowls and the Portuguese Presidency going to bet? And was the bowl then surprised that the Portuguese Presidency has created a capacity for action, a speed of action by 14 states, as it has been rather unusual in the EU? Was that the point? [[Abg. Großruck: The Brothers Grimm are truth fanatics compared to you!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] If that was the point, ladies and gentlemen, let us examine it together. This is not the day when we can say that political responsibility has been clarified, and the consequences must be met. There may also be quite different explanations for these facts. I think that's possible. And I also think it is possible that the parties can explain their behaviour and that this will make a different sense. This would probably be much better for this Republic than what is currently in the room. There is a single way of clarifying it cleanly, and that is the parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's it! I'm so surprised!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Directly baff!]] Even if, for some reason, the liberals should not be willing to do so today, we are prepared to do so. Today we will make a request for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and we will make a sample of nails with you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: Is that what Jörg Haider promised, or isn't it true? Are the liberals standing at their word, or are the necks turned on because the government partner is now fixed? This evening, when we vote, we will know how it looks with the liberal necks. Anyway, I'm already excited about it! Finally, I would like to express my concern: The liberal-conservative government coalition will negatively affect the socially weak, the women and many others. However, there are also individuals who are already affected. They know the case of an editor of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten". He has already been discussed publicly; I do not want to repeat it. I'm describing a second case. In the Residenz-Verlag, the long-standing publisher, Mr. Jochen Jung, has been unexpectedly canceled. You can discuss any termination, but you can't discuss one, and I quote from an interview in the magazine "Format" with Mr. Jung. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How many weeks ago?]] He is asked in the current edition of the "Format": Because of the formation of government, your redundancies do not make headlines. Just a coincidence? – Young: Certainly not. Mr Sedlaczek has just told me that under the current political conditions my release is certainly only seen as a petition. There is currently no political contact. [[Abg. Kiss: Sedlaczek says: minus 50 percent sales in the last ten years, Mr. Pilz! Don't talk about winning!]] That's how it is terminated in the federal area. Thus, people who have made a name in literature and literature are removed in the federal area. And I would like to pay a lot of attention to this House, including these developments. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Less 50 percent turnover!]] The feeling of the threat not only to people abroad, but also to more and more people domestically, the feeling of a threat also in working life, a direct personal threat from a government coalition that probably has different views about personal and political independence and independence than we and many others, deserves great public alertness. And I guarantee you from the speaker's desk: If others don't, we're going to take care of this vigilance. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That was a buff's speech!]] [[13:33]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8076	I have a request from the Green Group, according to § 33 para. 1 GOG a Committee of Inquiry to examine the reasons, causes, timing and political responsibility for the foreign policy isolation of Austria. It is requested that this Committee of Inquiry be composed of 11 members: 4 Social Democrats, 3 of the ÖVP, 3 Freeman and a Greener. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 request that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure will be held with a view to the structure of today's sitting and the subsequent vote after completion of the agenda of this meeting. Applications shall be duly submitted. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8108	High house! I cannot and I do not want to comment on the Committee on Inquiry. It is up to the parliamentarians to find out about it. There is much to be said about this, but you will judge it yourself. I would just like to say to Mr Pilz, who, in turn, has opened up a huge story here – about what has happened, about the backgrounds and the "competition" of the Portuguese Presidency with the government education mandate – some relevant information – once again; I have already done so publicly. First: Austria was in no way involved in the creation of the will of the 15 EU Member States; at least not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I do not believe the BKA either. - That's the first point. The second is that we never got directly in touch with the letter of the Belgians. We have never seen him, we have only heard that there is this letter, and have asked us in time – that is why the Secretary of State has asked the Portuguese – about how this person reacts to what is going to happen. Then, on Saturday evening, a call from the President of the Council, in which concern was very general, came exactly what was described in the documentation of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. On Monday another call came, as I did not mention it publicly yesterday for the first time; you just did not know a few things, I have always made this clear in press conferences from the outset. I received another call on Monday during the early afternoon. I didn't write down what time it was, but it was in the early afternoon. At least I was still at lunch, and this usually does not last too long. There came a call from Jaime Gama, who informed me orally of these three measures and added that they had not yet been published, that the decision had not yet been taken. He would like to tell us in time to prevent the later arrival, and he therefore asked me to treat these matters confidentially. Of course, I have thought of this, especially since this was an oral information and the exact wording of the decisions – in which it comes to every word, you will give me a right – is important to know. I then went to the President of the Federal Government in the afternoon; that is true. Jörg Haider was in front of me, and two hours later I was on my way. And while I was with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, an APA report came. I came out and was asked by some journalists: What do you say? Of course I have said that I do not know this APA issue yet. I will comment on it when I have read it and when I have discussed it with the Portuguese President-in-Office. That's what I did. I reached him in Moscow in the evening and complained very much about the promise or confidentiality offered to me. He apologized many times and said that was a pan. The pressure was enormously strong, and he could no longer reach me to tell me this changed line of the Portuguese Presidency. That's it. Therefore, there can be no mention of a "race" at all. Member of the European Parliament Again to the crime of this chapter concerning immediately! On Monday we did not receive any government education mandate: neither I nor Jörg Haider. This happened on Thursday the same week. You do not need to use an investigation committee to do this, and these things are widely known. Let's stop reading and interpreting Crimea from behind. Ask me, I will give you open information at any time! There's nothing to hide.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8165	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzböck. The clock is set to 15 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8186	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Austria has been ruling for five days. The new Federal Government has started work at a time when it is also in the European Union – with 1. January 2000 – with a completely new programme, which was launched in Agenda 2000, a new European political period. For the first time, Austria was able to negotiate and play a significant role in this Agenda 2000 for the first time, following its accession and the need to enter a period in which time. Personally, I would have seen a lot of meaning in the fact that those members of the government who have played a significant part in this agenda at European level could have continued to work on implementation. I was not a pioneer of the new government cooperation, since 17 and especially since 21. Yes, I see the situation differently. But also from the debate we have experienced yesterday and today, it has become clear how necessary new conditions have been in Austria since the 3. ==References== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am not saying that there would have been only this form of government; there have been other possibilities. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from SPÖ and my social partners in SPÖ – President Vergestnich has informed me that he has to attend a club meeting; I will have to hold the discussion with him even more often – as you explain to the Heads of Government of the Social Democratic Governments of the 14 that you have not been able to support this programme. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The base wanted it!]] Will you be able to explain to Schröder, Eichel, Guterres, Persson, Lipponen or other social democrats that these contents were the reason that She forced her to stop the negotiations with the EIA? [[Abg. Rider: The reason was another!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Negotiations!]] Will you be able to explain to a Minister Eichel and a German Chancellor Schröder that it was impossible for you to bring an independent specialist to the Ministry of Finance after 30 years with a Social Democratic Finance Minister? – I personally worked well and correctly with Minister Edlinger. I do not have much to blame him; if, then only that which belongs to political diversity, when you belong to different parties, is part of it. Ladies and gentlemen! If these were the reasons, I'll tell you quite openly: We will, of course, try to explain to President Chirac and Prime Minister Aznar that your rejection of these contents has led to the new government situation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am free to say that in situations that were important to the Republic, I was a representative of the social partners or of party negotiating teams in which there were similar situations. Some are even to be read, for example, the demand of Minister Lacina at the EU negotiations in Brussels, that without my yes to the outcome of the negotiations, I could not be there at a single negotiation with the Austrian delegation without a yes by me as a farmer's representative, no integration will take place from the point of view of the SPÖ. We were able to achieve a negotiated outcome that I am still standing today. I am pleased that this government partnership has led to a change in the position of the liberals of fundamental opposition policy in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Flexible!]] I know from experience in my own body – I have often felt this in my responsibilities as parliamentarians and social partners, as party negotiators – how difficult it is to withdraw personal views in the interests of the whole. That is why it hurt me – I say quite openly – that President Vergestnich has not with us now – but I hope we can do so in the social partners – that has continued more intensively, which must be at the head of the trade union demands of a federal government. I listened carefully. President Vergestnich, with whom I have a proper cooperation relationship, complained that if she were already a law, mothers would have to come back from the energy holidays now if they had entered a working relationship at the beginning of the year. Ladies and gentlemen! We have hundreds of thousands of families in this country who can never make holidays in the energy holidays. We have hundreds of thousands of families in different occupations, in the workers' sector, in the farmers' sector, in the small business sector, which are almost never able to afford vacations. There we have partnership to prove. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] I say quite frankly to you: If the biggest problem of our partnership is that one month after starting work after the longest Christmas and New Year holidays we have ever had, and possibly the fact that previously no employment relationship until 31. I would ask Mr Vergestnich in the social partnership tradition: Let us turn to the social problems of the Republic! [[Abg. You're welcome!]] However, as a farmer's representative, I cannot see any problem in the fact that a worker or a worker, who was on the 2nd floor, was a worker. Years have started working, legally demanding the holiday claim, although 99 percent can solve such problems in free agreement anyway, I cannot see any social reduction there. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why I am glad that we have reached agreement in the area of European policy that the important issues we have covered in the Europe Treaty, which we have agreed on in Agenda 2000, are that we in Europe are making a clear commitment to rural development even under difficult conditions with this government. I don't want to be kept on behalf of the farmer that we would have gotten gifts here. The funding of the mining base amount, the financing of the ÖPUL measures were also taken with the representatives of social democracy and are based on a Council decision of Agenda 2000 under the participation of Federal Chancellor Viktor Klima in March 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also glad – I say quite openly – that we want to remove some unsustainable social injustices with this government agreement. We make a clear commitment to the pension for all, and I am looking forward to helping the old farmers, whom we have never been able to explain that a fictitious outpouring is still expected 30 years after the introduction of the farmer's pension, leading to thousands of people having to live with 5 000 s and less, and that this is inconceivable. I do not know if we will "lift" this in one step, but every signal in this direction is a recognition of the life work of farmed professional colleagues who have made themselves worthy of this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am pleased – and I am saying that this would have been possible in this party agreement; for the first time after many years of desire – that we are now supporting those farmers who accept the international challenge and deal with special cultures that also require high manual work in terms of quality assurance, with 7,000 additional harvest workers for six weeks with simplified procedures, and that we can thus also give a clear signal of our partnership attitude to our neighbours. I have already received a happy letter from Jungagrariers from the Czech Republic, a few days after the negotiations for the continuation of the great coalition, which would like to come immediately, because they have waited to be able to get to know Western-oriented EU agriculture as students in Austria for at least four or six weeks. I would have to make a number of important statements here, for example, that it was important to us that, after the month-long blockade on biodiesel, a consistent clear commitment was now made in this government agreement that, after five years of experience in the field of EU agricultural market management, opportunities are opened up in relation to the proportionality of sanctions to funding problems in EU policy. Coming to the end: Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that what we have as a common international task will soon be established again in this House on a consistent basic consensus, which has been awarded this country for decades and led to the success road. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We, as representatives of the social partners, who long before the change, have been in a deep change, have a great responsibility, not only in the hard implementation of our demands, but also in the willingness to contribute to the well-being of this country in a functioning whole, and if it is necessary to put something on the table and not to be able to take anything home. That's part of it, too. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I assume, in fact, that we come to what is demanded of us as representatives of the people in our responsibility, that, even though it is still so difficult, when so great wounds are bleeding – inwardly, thank God, not externally – we maintain the carrying whole that has connected us for decades. I have often been asked by colleagues from SPÖ's social partners over the last few days how I am a once convinced Grand Coalitionary in this government cooperation. I say I turn to a fair partnership with the liberals, because there has been no alternatives except new elections. And these wouldn't have solved the problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I would like to invite you: Take advantage of your possibilities, too, and do not cling exclusively to the hope that after a new change you can cool with mushroom and others, otherwise we may have to return the question sometime! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol]] I don't know if you'd all be fine. Let us turn to our joint work! Let's give this government a chance! There is still enough room for the political debate here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jäger.]] Let us turn to the problem, and let us explain to the Europeans and to people outside Europe that this country is still and remains what has led to admiration throughout the world: a country with mass welfare, a country with exemplary social peace, which has the power to carry out and work out in democracy what is being blamed for us. But this opportunity should be given to us both domestically and abroad.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8354	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8376	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer to the statements made by two of my previous speakers, who have spoken on our government programme. Mr President of the Council! I don't know what function You have reported yourself here, but I think you have done so in your capacity as President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, because as a representative of this organization, this important organization, you are represented here as a Member. I understand it when, in this function, you make critical comments on a government programme, which also includes incisive measures in the field of pensions, but also in other areas. We've always made that clear. However, we have also said why this is so because it is precisely a budget hole that has not left behind the liberals who have not left this government but another government under a SPÖ finance minister that has created this need for action. We are also criticising the measures, we are discussing them, but, Mr President Vergestnich, then you too will stick to the facts. Just as you brought the situation here, you can only say: This is the attempt to insure the population. If you say...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8397	Federal Minister Scheibner! You have spoken in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that a member of the Federal Government can take the floor at any time, as well as a Member of Parliament from the speaker's desk. I ask you to speak to your place of business. That is, I think, of course.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8412	I need a little more time to get used to, Mr President, from my role as a representative of the Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In any case, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8440	Mr Scheibner! Perhaps Mr Edlinger will also need a little time to get used to, then it will be the same again. [[General hustle and bustle.]] – Now you are speaking as Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8464	Mr President. We ask for some tolerance on the first day of the debate. Mr Pilz has criticised the fact that there are expenditures in the government programme to acquire airspace surveillance aircraft, and he has opposed this to social measures. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it justified to calculate one with the other. Unfortunately, we have heard this again and again, but if it is the case that we really need these things in the field of security and defence, then we suddenly do not hear these discussions. I can still remember when Mr. Pilz – who is not in the hall right now – was vehemently moved to the field against the acquisition of the Dragons, which has gone to the street. At the time, however, I did not hear anything from the critics, when the population rightly demanded this very Dragon during the Slovenia crisis in 1991, when one saw about Graz that Serbian MiG had flown over our territory. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You can also discuss whether it is useful and necessary to purchase helicopters for the German army. That costs a lot of money: 2.5 billion schilling, but I haven't heard anyone questioning this investment when a year ago the population rightly demanded and asked that helicopters fly to Galtür to evacuate the population there, before the next avalanche would have threatened the survivors. This is the essence of security policy, ladies and gentlemen: In good times, in peaceful times, it is necessary to ensure that, if something really happens, one can also take the appropriate measures to turn away from the population of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have therefore devoted very wide scope in this government programme of security policy and defence. In security policy, we clearly and clearly acknowledge the full participation of Austria in the construction of a European security and defence structure. We were all surprised – and I say this as a often critic of the European Union – that, given the disaster in Kosovo, the European Union has for the first time found clear words, clear strategies and a timetable for the implementation of such a European security structure. It should be the top goal for us – because these timetables are already set at one year – that we are fully entitled to join Austrians here. We have also agreed in this government programme that we will try to establish and maintain the European Union's assistance guarantee in the negotiations on implementation. This is always a point of discussion. There's always a question. Why should we help other countries if they are at risk? – But I am convinced – the government representatives of the last government have always known – that we must exercise solidarity with the other states within the European Union. Just a small state like Austria must have a special interest in getting under the protection of the international community through this assistance guarantee. That is why this is our goal, because we can only ensure the security of our country in a cost-effective and efficient way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, we have also included in our government programme various parameters which we consider necessary and important, namely that this basic decision – and there is no taboo to be known, but only the best way for the security of Austria – must be presented to the Austrian people in the form of a referendum when it comes to the guarantee of assistance. We have also found that, for us, it is clear that, no matter what future security policy may look like, there must be no stationing of nuclear weapons, that Austria will never participate in a war, but above all that it must always be the decision of Austria, the Parliament, the Federal Government, whether – and to what extent – Austria will participate in international operations. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Re-enlightenment with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is, however, our commitment, if we agree, to direct the Austrian Federal Army towards these tasks. It was sometimes not the case in the past that one could say that our soldiers were best prepared in these missions. That is why we have also known that the Austrian Federal Army is a very important institution for us. I am saying this here as a new Minister of Defence, but I have always said this in this House during the last nine and a half years as a Member of Parliament that we as the Federal Government and you as Members of Parliament here have the obligation that we should give everything they need to the German army, our soldiers, who are ready to put their health and their lives at risk for the security of this country in the worst possible way possible to fulfil the task they have given the federal constitution. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why we have put aside and secured the financing of helicopters whose needs have been seen on the Galtür. That is why we have also agreed that the procurement of airspace surveillance aircraft will be started at a cost-effective but still in this legislative period. That is why we have also agreed that the national defence budget must be increased gradually at that level, which is necessary in order to provide the necessary infrastructure for the federal army. Above all, we have agreed that, contrary to the past, the federal army will be financially replaced by those tasks carried out for other sites, such as assistance on the border of Burgenland and now also in Lower Austria, a very important achievement for the Austrian population, for the security of our country, but also for the efforts that have been strongly increased abroad in recent years, where Austria has shown that it is in solidarity with the construction of a European peace institution. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] We have also seen that, unfortunately, all those who claim that there will be no more threats to our country in the future are not right. Ten years ago, we all celebrated the decline of Communism – I hope that almost everyone here in Austria has done so – and we have hoped that the age of peace and freedom will come in Europe. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] – But: Just a few months later, we were all taught a better one. For almost ten years, a terrible war has been raging in Europe – at various locations – which is led by a cruelty that we would no longer have thought possible in Europe. We have fought at our borders, and we must note that every conflict on our continent also has an impact on Austria. That is why we have the highest interest in avoiding future conflicts together with the State community – and if they cannot be avoided, at least to do everything to restrict the use of aggressors, to do everything in order to ensure that human rights do not have to go wrong. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is also important to me in this department that we redefine the orders to the army with our commitment to the Austrian federal army and that we discuss the military system and the organization as well because of this newly defined order situation, because there is also a need for action in this regard. I will therefore very quickly ask a Commission to examine the framework conditions for a necessary change in the organization and the military system. There must be the necessary framework conditions before such a change is made. As a military soldier, I also allow myself to tell you that the militia is a very special concern to me. Any change in the military system that will be necessary in the future will certainly require this military component. As I am, many thousands of other Austrians are proud that they can contribute to the security of Austria in their leisure time in uniform. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We did not happen to have taken over from the first agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ as a compromise for many formulations – even though sometimes painfully from our point of view – and that is why we have adopted them because we assume – that is particularly important to me – that the question of the security of our country has to be resolved from party-political hack. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There is no "red", "black", "blue" or "green" security policy, but there can only be a security policy, a security policy that can best protect and guarantee the security and independence of our country and its population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For this reason, as Minister of Defence, I will be particularly concerned to have an open dialogue with you here in Parliament, to inform you in good time about measures – and I say so in your direction, Mr Gaál – which my department is planning, so that we can shape the future of our security policy together. I would also like to thank you very much, in my previous role as chairman of the National Defence Committee, and my colleagues in the Committee, for the fact that we have always tried to achieve this consensus in the past. And I think this is very important, because the security of our country has to be such a good for us, so that we are dealing with the day-to-day policy issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you all to this dialogue, and I hope that we will go together into a new future, that we can create a peaceful, secure Austria in a peaceful and secure Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8659	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e8681	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! In Austria, we have a new political situation – and this is beyond doubt – and we have now heard a number of new attitudes and new interpretations about the same facts. It is interesting how different things are from the same personalities – depending on which side of this house they are now on. First of all, I would like to say in all clarity and openness that I, who for three years had been a member of the Austrian Federal Government as Minister of Finance, do not intend to burn spiritual books as a representative of the Socialist opposition. Therefore: That is why those political objectives and measures that I thought were correct until a few days ago have not become wrong, because I am no longer part of the Austrian Federal Government. I would also like to make it clear that I do not agree to expressly thank Chancellor Dr. Schüssel for the start of his speech when, in well-informed words, he has honoured 30 years of social-democratic government policy in our country. I would like to express my thanks to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have said – and repeat this – that I do not intend to perform spiritual book burning, but I do not intend to be interpreted authentically by someone other than myself. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I therefore also ask for an understanding of the fact that I am now saying this in full clarity. In the course of my debate contribution – I know that my speaking time is limited – I will try to address some of this discussion today. For example, various colored papers and concepts were waved here and pretended to be the same in both. – I can only comment on this: This can only be judged if you read it very selectively. It is true that both concepts have the same structure in about the same structure, and that is wise, because essentially the structure of this paper is actually from the Social Democratic Party. And that was smart. But, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: The content differs significantly in essential areas! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's good too!]] Therefore, if you say about the new coalition, in one question or another, you will draw our attention to the one or other formulation of us, that is your right. However, I should like to remind you that this paper, which has been negotiated on its own, was a major compromise. Ladies and gentlemen! I admit now that I have made a very crucial mistake – despite the routine I'm conceding. [[Abg. Young: Don't watch the sausage!]] I have believed too long that the Austrian People's Party really wants a coalition with the Social Democrats. – And that was a very crucial error! I would like to have said this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The start of this federal government is at least remarkable in a number of respects. You probably don't want to abdicate me. The first great achievement... – No, that would have been too little, something new has been added every day, ladies and gentlemen, something new has been added every day! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You would just have to agree!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We gave approval by a large majority in the party board!]] How justified is the view that you must not be rescinded by the Ministry of Finance is proof of the composition of the new Federal Government. You do not allow the Minister of Finance to do so in this Federal Government, because you seem to be simply unable to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Some representatives of the ÖVP keep copies to the height on which the name EDLINGER is written above a drawn crunch sausage.]] To this quote – by the way, a wonderful work of art – you remind me of this, I can tell you the following: [[Abg. Kiss: What?]] Someone sent me such a crack sausage, with which I made an empirical investigation by handing it out to my dog with the order to guard her! What do you think happened? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He ate them!]] – Within two minutes she had disappeared and thus delivered the proof of the truth of my quote! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The start of this federal government was remarkable in many respects. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That must have been a martial dog!]] First – and that was the first great "performance"! –: A few days after your fishing, you will be in front of the largest foreign-political shredding cluster in the Second Republic. You can say that in all clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are now on the front pages of all the newspapers. At the same time, you say the government won't make a PR No, you're going to put us in a situation where the whole world reports about Austria for free – a "beautiful" advertising that you, the new Federal Government, have provided to our country! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is the old Chancellor climate?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is climate?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is climate?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For this new image that you have missed my beloved homeland, you bear the sole responsibility! Nobody's taking it from you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: The hour of the patriots beats!]] Their second great "performance", ladies and gentlemen, is an internal policy. They have contributed to a tremendous wave of political activities in Austria. Whoever still says today, young people are not interested in politics, may go out and see how much the young people in this country express their concern. [[Abg. Kiss: Who says that?]] Where is your dialogue? Why don't you talk to these people? [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's huge!]] We do not have a government of upright action, but a government that uses catacombs to avoid the citizens of this country. This is the second great "performance", ladies and gentlemen, who belong to you on their own! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Jung: Allow a question! ...]] The third remarkable "performance" is that Austria has a German chancellor who actually wanted to go into opposition and is supported by someone who doesn't want to be there! [[Abg. Young: Ask Mrs. Ederer...!]] Both bring to each other "great appreciation". For example, you could read – I quote –: "What can this bowl carry except mashers, responsibility at least not." – That’s what Haider said about bowls! On another question, he said: "I believed you wanted to talk about the country's future. Why is the bowl playing a role?" – Haider about bowls. "Haider is one who uses the fire torch of the national stereotype – I don't want to say hate – quite consciously." - Cushion over Haider. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And what is this?]] Part of this federal government will be particularly pleased that the Federal Chancellor says: "The FPÖ is exclusively run by Haider. Whoever is put to the top of each is uninteresting, because it has not had any meaning yet." [[Call the SPÖ: So it is! That's right!]] I have nothing to add to this third "performance" of the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fourth outstanding "performance" of the Austrian Federal Government is the government declaration. The presentation of the three major social-democratic success reports: the economic success balance, which in fact seeks to be similar in Europe, namely, falling unemployment, rising employment, a successful turnaround in the labour market – that is social-democratic policy! [[Abg. Fischl: Lower real income!]] And actually, it's sad that you have to boast of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Young: EU locklight!]] The democratic track record: stable democracy, basic consensus, strike seconds, social partners. – When reading your program, you ask yourself: What are you doing with the social partners? – This is probably an annoying accompanying appearance of the representation of interests. This will be done in the future in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: He is profiled as opposition leader!]] The social success balance: Living solidarity is the balance of social-democratic governance – and for that, Federal Chancellor, I should like to thank you sincerely. [[Abg. Fischl: Nothing learned!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor concludes this passage with the wording that Austria has not changed in recent days. – This is the fifth great "performance" of this federal government, namely the performance of error. Austria has changed: I can't remember ever passing police locks to enter this house. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who provoked violence?]] I can't remember that anyone who wants to watch here is perlusced about whoever it is. This is the climate you have created in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is the climate?]] And that is why it is an error, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say that nothing has changed in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government programme documents that this will continue in the future. Mr. Westenthaler said he had pulled the "gift teeth" to a red-black pact. I cannot imagine what he has drawn, because the only thing out of what is no longer happening in your programme is the mineral oil tax – for this the tax increases are almost twice as high! I think it doesn't matter to the driver whether he pays more for petrol or more for insurance. At least he pays more! That's the same thing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, this black and blue package is a load package! The electricity price will be increased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] The rents will be more expensive through the discussion on the interest rate of peace and the time-limitation of business venues. A social disassembly is initiated by self retention: Today, the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has announced in a broadcast that it very much wants to make use of that 20 percent self-retention. – I congratulate you for contributing to making the doctor’s visit extremely expensive for some. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] On one point I would also like to say something about the debate on pensions. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We already have 35 years to live with self retention!]] For pensions: First of all, it should be said that I am not dissociating from my proposal, because everyone who thinks it is reasonable must take note of it... [[Abg. May. Steindl: Say this to the Lord!]] I have discussed with them, because with you my friends from the union do not discuss with me! It is legitimate that a difficult question should first be considered differently. [[Abg. Fischl: Did Nuremberger sign or not?]] I've never made a locust out that you can't simply pass this problem, namely that the people in Austria get older every ten years by two years – don't laugh, it's true! – and therefore it is not possible for very young people to retire. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Young]] That's why you have to do something about it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I also say, in all openness, that I – and that was the reason why I said it – overturned by a few days too late that the ÖVP is conducting sham negotiations. [[Abg. Kiss: Ah that?- Oh, my God!]] I did not represent the pension history as the first, but as your Federal Chancellor on 31 December. ==References== January in an interview in the "Format". I just thought that was right, and what I thought was right, I represented it. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You turned your backs on it, and you turned your backs on it. As Mr. Haider says: He's wearing masherl, but he's not responsible. – That is why it was the Edlinger proposal, because you have noticed that this will be difficult to discuss! So you have taken responsibility for it. But I say again: I recognize this consideration, only what you are doing now means that you are faster – faster! – extend because you will start already in October of this year and will be finished in 2003, but you will also make discounts. [[Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Dr. Khol:Sander!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, people who have worked their lives have a right to get their pension to the fullest level and not with a 20 percent ÖVP/FPÖ discount! This is social disassembly and against it we will defend ourselves! [[Lively welcome to the SPÖ and to the Greens.]] Last comment on the budget: Yes, this 2000 budget lacks 20 billion schilling – but only then... – No! [[Call the liberals:Aha?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Fischl: Why?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: More!]] If more were missing, your government programme would be to throw away, because then you will make a deficit of 3 percent! – You only save 20 billion schilling! How's it going, I suppose I've caused a higher deficit? No, you're doing something else. They are committed to my proposals for the 2000 and 2001 budgets! They do not spend the money out of the family compensation fund, but carry it out to the budget. [[Call the liberals:So what?- Oh, my God!]] And I've always said, The budget target can be achieved if we do not generate additional expenditure – and that is why 20 billion schilling is missing! If you count that up – and now really comes the special crack – if They continue to calculate this until the year 2003, then those 235 billion schillings arise. But I would never have assumed to you that you have the intention of not making a policy for four years, but of making this appear You yourself, you put this yourself, for otherwise you would not be able to add purely mathematical deficits of four years, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Steindl: At the ministerial bank you said something completely different!]] It speaks for my successors that he has not yet repeated this nonsense in the public – that is what only Mr. Haider and Mr. Westenthaler have said; that belongs to them alone! It's wrong! It is wrong and quite simply a very polemic representation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One last, one last comment: The fact that the EIA was ready to carry out marginal tax increases with SPÖ is obvious. But the FPÖ has always been against tax increases! Flat tax! Where's the flat tax, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Fischl: Come on!]] Where's the flat tax you promised? 23 percent and nothing else? – Tax increases to an incredible extent! Tax drivers are you, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That's the image you actually deserve! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, a somewhat expressive image. You remember: Last summer, through the countries a cute, sweet poster with sweet little "kidspopscherln" was to be seen, who thanked for the babysitting check for six years: "Thank you, Jörg!" [[Abg. Fischl: From to the Burgtheater!]] Where's this check? What will the "popsherls" say to Jörg now? – I leave that to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9347	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9400	Mr Edlinger, former Minister of Finance! They would have preferred to become an actor in a suburban stage as a finance minister, because then Austria would have been able to save a lot. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Edlinger: The actor is in the government!]] It's really ridiculous. They are whining at this speaker's mouth and wailing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – They have left us a shredded pile and now cry about the shards lying there, and with their finger point to those who have to clear this shredded pile. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Do you have such a limited vocabulary?]] They complain that you had to come to Parliament with police protection, but forget the following: Who has poured the oil into the fire so that this inner Austrian excitement is escalating? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – It was you, and it was your vantage point organisations! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, if you... [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] You give us the advice or you tell us that you have to be ready to talk, why nobody is talking to the demonstrators. – Yes, can you remember? A short time ago, there was a demonstration organized by the Association SOS-Mithmansch. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] Her party friend, colleague Ederer, has been cast in this so "peaceful" demonstration by SOS fellow man with tomatoes. – You can’t talk to these people, but many simply want to marginalize, you have to take note of that. [[Abg. Edlinger: You want to lock them up! Lock away!]] Who says that? - I don't want to lock her up! Why don't you accuse me, I want to lock her up? – No word from locking up! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jäger.]] I recognize the right of demonstration, Mr Edlinger, but I also recognize the truth. And you didn't tell the truth when you told us about numbers that never existed at all – except in your imagination. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It was urgently necessary for a new finance minister to take over this place, and I am convinced that this freedom-wing finance minister will play this role better than you do. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Possible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The declaration of government presented today clearly – and also for every doubt! – showed that this conviction, this pre-condemnation that took place in Austria, was simply not justified. This declaration of government has also clearly shown that the prejudices that the EU has shown to Austria or to this government were not justified and therefore the accusations must be removed as soon as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen just from the Socialists and also from the Greens! Whoever does not acknowledge that this government, with its declaration of government, acknowledges the principles of democracy, co-humanity, solidarity, stability, is simply not prepared to recognise the content of this declaration of government, and is intent on advocating something which is clearly the substance of this declaration of government. And I must also question whether you have a genuine democratic view. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What a Pharisee!]] Why do you say I'm a Pharisee? Why, Mrs. Mertel? Why Saying You do? I've never given you an opportunity to call myself a liar or a Pharisee. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Always! Time and again!]] I think you should be a master! They poison the climate! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jäger.]] They poison the climate in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We discussed it yesterday – I do not want to warm up the discussion yesterday. You're simply disappointed that you're not in government anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Not me!]] At a time when the government was not yet in office, her clubman Kostelka said in the mission "To the cause," the government failed – before anything else of what the government intends to do has been known! The government has already been "successed" before any action has been taken. I see that you are disappointed and therefore an objective discussion is likely very difficult for you, but you must finally find out about this matter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: What is the subject matter? To yours?]] You do not even want to accept what you yourself wanted to introduce, namely the money for children! You don't even want to see that, and that's very difficult for me. You can't even deal with the fact that our vice chancellor has offered you the open conversation – the open conversation with the opposition! – that’s because you’re not used to it because you’re dealing with the opposition in such a way that you’ve always been over it. And you think that's what's going on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you'll see: This government will deal with you differently than you did with the opposition earlier. You have to take note of this. But you don't even trust that. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We will take you by word!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They have also intended to insure the population by disinformation before this declaration of government. Mr Kostelka spoke about the hip operation in the mission "On the matter", in which the restraint will amount to 20 000 or 30 000 S – 20 000 S – clearly contrary to better knowledge! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: 20!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why?]] They knew very well that it was only about introducing a self-hold for the doctor's visit, as is the case with the federal staff. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's not true! They write themselves: in all areas of health!]] Please, it was not about a hospital stay, not about an operation the talk! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You don't even read your own...!]] That's exactly what you knew! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Just as wrong information you also give about the child's money. They claim – and accuse us – that we want the women to be sent back to the stove. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] – That’s not true at all! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] I would ask the first one, which would certainly be against it, because I am absolutely in favour of women working in employment. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Don't tell anyone!]] The aim is to make it easier for women to agree on work and family activities and to improve the financial situation of the family. Take note of this! You wanted the money from the SPÖ, too! Now you have it – and now you should accept it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens! Otherwise, always run around with a raised index finger and demand correctness. They urge everyone to be honest and correct. We accept your fundamentalist opposition, but please stay with the truth, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and Greens! And: Be correct in your opposition role! – Just as we were always correct when we were still in opposition. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few words about mine, about the security area. I am really pleased that in some European daily newspapers it has been found that the government statement of this federal government is fully in line with the EU's catalogue of values. And this is particularly true of the chapter "Internal Security", which is about those values which are high in the EU: Co-humanity, solidarity, xenophobia and so on. The international community does not find anything to do with this – even Mr Van der Bellen has not even made any criticism of our chapter on internal security. I am pleased, because this shows that we have a truly balanced government programme on which we – I hope – also with your support! – can continue to work. Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel rightly pointed out that Austria will continue to play its role as a refugee host country. This is something you have to say here: Austria has an almost historic role as a refugee host country. We were always the first to take up refugees, and we were always the ones – apart from Germany – who received most refugees. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: Not anymore!]] No one – except for Germany – has recorded as many Bosnians as Austria, Kosovo Albanians and so on. And we can be really proud of that! We have spent many billions of schilling on refugees – and for this we really have to thank all Austrians. And Austria will continue to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The following is also to be said: While the EU is always talking very much about receiving refugees, so far, there has been a compensatory payment within the EU countries, in order to avoid at least some financial compensation for those countries that do a great deal for refugees. In fact, when it comes to figures, other EU countries are no longer ready to do much for refugees, especially when it comes to writing declarations. In this context, it is also important in the Government Declaration that integration is pre-empted. In recent years immigration has been forced too much, and this has led to huge problems in Vienna in particular. – We will therefore no longer continue this policy, but we will force family integration, but we will reduce new immigration. There was absolutely a need for correction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make another important point in the Government Declaration, which you are always talking about, where you have never made any specific decisions: Those foreigners who live in Austria who have a residence permit should also be allowed to work here in the future. Although you have always said that this would be important, you have never taken any steps to implement it. First, we will have a study on the extent to which this affects the labour market – and then there will be a implementation of this objective. As I said, That's what you've missed all these years. In this declaration of government, however, we also confess to a consistent removal of criminal foreigners, to a consistent removal of those foreigners who are illegally residing in Austria, and that they are really being taken out of the country and can no longer be pushed free by a hunger strike. It does not matter, however, that Austrian laws are disregarded that, as has been the case in recent years, thousands of people, although they have been illegally resident in Austria, could ultimately stay here, because they have been pushed free by hunger strikes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this context, we absolutely want an amendment, and this is also contained in the Government Declaration. In short, Mrs Petrovic's statement, which is not here at the moment. Mrs Petrovic has said that the political climate in this House is a "catastrophe", is "fearing" and more similar. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has said something wrong twice, quite consciously. First of all, it was so that she completely misrepresented my speech yesterday, with full intention. [[Contradict with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's your opinion!]] Mrs Petrovic's hatred is really scared! That hate's scared! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am really concerned when I see this distortion of the facts, Mrs Petrovic here... – This is not an injunction! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: This is an understatement!]] I have therefore also corrected this. In an actual correction, I have clearly proved that Mrs Petrovic has said the untruth. - That's not an injunction! – No, I even proved it, with a written proof, namely my speech. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You didn't prove it, you only read the second paragraph!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No!]] I therefore advise you: Read the minutes of my speech! I would have, honestly, not agree with Mrs Petrovic that she is twisting things in such a demagogic way, just because it just fits her into the stuff...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9885	Mrs Partik-Pablé! Mr Fassleven has told your side today the phrase "Dumnness". [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That was an intermediate call!]] – I’m looking for an appropriate language!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e9912	Ms Petrovic also argued that there are foreign texts in Austrian schoolbooks, on the one hand, so that schoolchildren learn Turkish or Serbian, for example. She said she didn't agree. I prove to her the opposite. The book "Lesefuchs 2, for the second level, reads: [[the speaker keeps a book up to date]] "Maxi and Izzedin", and on the other hand: "Zoran and Karolin", in addition to page texts in Turkish or Serbian language, so that Austrian schoolchildren learn these languages. [[Abg. May. Posch: Do you have a problem with that?]] You can now discuss whether this is good or not... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Do you have a problem with this?]] Mrs Petrovic has disputed this fact – and that is what I am talking about! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really have a problem with Mrs Petrovic's honesty! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: We have a problem with your Xenophobia!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You do not want to allow any other discussion positions at all! [[Abg. May. Posch: What about the Nigerians?]] You're trying to defame any other discussion position, because you want to determine what's right by yourself. And what you don't think is right is not good either. And that's why you'll try to put someone who has a different opinion than you, on the Pranger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Zensur, intimidation, this is your arsenal from which you draw the weapons, ladies and gentlemen. But I do not imagine the political climate and the political debate in Austria! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You are the only Members of this National Council who are openly racist!]] Mrs Stoisits, you are talking about "peaceless demonstrations" here. At the "Speaker's Corner" you said that at most a brick had fallen. – Only: There are 45 injured cops! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 50 says the Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: An injured police officer is already too much!]] – I am already too much a brick at a demonstration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These demonstrations included not only bricks, but also tomatoes and Throw eggs! Steel balls have also been thrown! For you, Mrs Stoisits, it is obvious that violence which comes from the left is not a violence that must be rejected. – We liberals, on the other hand, reject any form of violence – whether it comes from left or right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Actual correction!]] I'd ask you: Use the offer of our Federal Government, our ministers, to work with us! We will do so from the parliamentary groups of ÖVP and the liberals, for the benefit of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10096	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Speech time: 2 minutes. – Please speak on the subject!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10134	I'm sorry I didn't know you had to report to the Bureau in front of me. Next time, I know. On the actual correction of Mrs Partik-Pablé's statement that there is no problem for the Green Violence from the left: As you may know, in the evening the first problems in the demonstrations the leader of the Greens has distanced himself from the violent demonstrators. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It was just a brick! It's just a little stone like that!]] She asked all the demonstrators to be peaceful. Take Please be aware of this! [[Abg. Haigermoser: What is it for an actual correction? You do not know the Rules of Procedure at all!]] I'm telling you, the Greens welcome violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10196	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10218	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now trying to find out what we were asked to do today at the beginning of this debate, which is very difficult after Mrs Partik-Pablé's speech, namely to treat this new government as a white sheet of paper and to measure it only by her actions and words that she has set or has spoken since she has this status of "government". This is what I am trying to do now, although it really requires a certain kindness on my part to hide everything that somehow burdens your story. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] And now I ask you, especially the colleagues of the liberals: How should I, as the Green Party's environmental spokesman, make an objective assessment of this first act, namely that the Ministry of the Environment has de facto been abolished? How do I explain this to citizens? [[Abg. Young: Not environmental protection has been abolished, but bureaucracy!]] Within a system of 5,000 agricultural officials, the last remaining environmentalists from the Ministry of the Environment have been so to speak. From the point of view of a state-orientated modern constitution, I do not understand how you, who have always presented yourself as the modern and radical environmentalists, can carry it. This is an affront to the entire environmental movement, which is an affront to all those who are concerned about it. And these are very, very many in Austria. Don't forget that! How should I evaluate this – quite objectively, just the deed – that the word "natural protection" no longer exists? There is no such thing as this statement of government. How can I assess that the objectives of bringing about a change in the EURATOM Treaty are gone? I don't think that's anything. That's gone. Or: How can I assess that, for the first time since 1990, the commitment to a nuclear-free central Europe is no longer taking place? This is no longer the case in this government statement. And that's really a scandal! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] It was not possible for me to understand who is now in charge of nuclear policy at all. If nuclear policy has become the principal issue of Chancellor Schüssel, is agriculture also responsible, or is Mr Morak, as the State Secretary, somehow responsible for nuclear policy? – Only dealing with this essential issue, which is so important for the security interests of the Austrian population, is the fact that this is somehow being pushed around and nowhere else is, I believe, an indication of how worthless that this new government has become. To the FPÖ Dear colleagues from the FPÖ! [[Abg. May. Kogler: Schweitzer, watch out!]] I have now observed this: this turning-point policy, this acrobatics, as you have managed to become a completely mediocre – I don't know – economic-liberal The-is-our-wursch party in the last few weeks! I can still remember that head of state Haider was excited that Krško did not happen. Krško doesn't happen now. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's annoyed when the haider says something!]] Where's Krško? Where's Temelin? I quote the FPÖ: That is why we call for the immediate decommissioning or the construction stop of Soviet reactors. - That was before the election. This is gone in the Coalition Convention. It doesn't happen anywhere. [[Abg. Gaugg: This has been done for a long time!]] I don't understand. Second example: Genetic engineering. In turn, I quote the liberals before the election: That is why we Freemans do not allow genetically modified food to be offered in Austria. We demand a five-year release moratorium for genetically modified plants and a cloning ban. – By the way, it's called "ban on cloning"; I just wanted to put it right. [[Abg. Gaugg: Thank you!]] Where did that come from? [[Abg. Gaugg: Where is the difference now?]] Where did the five-year-old moratorium come from? Where's popular desire? [[Abg. Gaugg: What changed?]] Where has the FPÖ enshrined the implementation of the demands of popular desire in this coalition pact? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Can you spell this!]] That's foot! Now you can speak what you want, that's just gone, that doesn't interest you anymore. And that's a scandal! That's where I'm measuring you by your actions, and I'm going to repeat: That's a scandal! Or the popular desire for animal protection. Mr Scheibner, three weeks ago She said: That's a concern for us. Where is it? Where is the implementation of the requirements of animal welfare popular desire? That's gone, too. It is no longer in this coalition pact. This is totally in the interests of the Austrian population, and that is why I am allowed to say that with fug and law and with good reason, you are a turning point. I'm really sorry, I have to say that here now. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It goes even further: Food scandals. What has happened to the Freedom Party about all the food scandals – Mrs. Aumayr must suffer somehow now – excitedly, about BSE, hormones, salmonellas, antibiotics in animal breeding or about the curiousness that we have discovered that pets are still being processed into animal feed! What excited the FPÖ! What's left of it? [[Abg. Gaugg: That goes on! We don't need to write everything down three times! Once enough!]] It doesn't happen anymore. That's gone. That's foot! And that's bulwark policy! [[Abg. Gaugg: I like to believe you don't like that!]] You're not the party of the little people or the little men, as you claim, you're not. This has manifested itself here in your actions, in your coalition agreement. I have to tell you: It's really a scandal! - Good. [[Abg. Gaugg: Next scandal!]] It's going on. They want to make chemicals, pesticides, veterinary medicines cheaper in the field of agriculture – that is exactly what I mentioned earlier. Okay. Where's Aumayr? She has to suffer because she has always resisted the fact that these things come to our plates over agriculture. You've made yourself strong for this. That's foot! That's gone! [[Abg. Gaugg: No, it's not true!]] Yes, read it! They say it's not true. I'm going to pay tribute to your actions, to what is contained in this coalition agreement. [[Abg. Gaugg: That's why I'd ask you! We're doing it too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We're only there two days!]] It's gone. - Good. On the electricity question I also come back to the point: [[Abg. Gaugg: Already implemented in Carinthia!]] They are no longer the party of small men and small women. This is a tax reform for paper industry such as our former National Council Presidents. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is only the half-truth!]] No, that's not a policy for the weakest in this society! You have to make this accusation happen. I think that's enough. I mean, that's proven to be: The FPÖ was supposedly on the side of the people on so many questions. That's not her! That's not her decid. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm still coming to other rendezvous. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Talk to Joschka Fischer once!]] Unfortunately, Mr Morak is not sitting on this government bank at the moment. I cannot treat Mr Morak as a white paper, but I must remind him of a very clear opinion that he made in 1995 about his current coalition partner. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In response to the Karl-Kraus quote "Hinaus aus Wien mit dem Schuft!" MP Morak then said "Raus mit dem Haider aus der Politik!" (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) [[Abg. That's what he's got in his government now!]] You nod, and I don't know how you can live with a party that somehow prevents artists from deunifying and heating living artists, stamping modern art, and not wanting to have it. I believe that from the point of view of the artists in Austria, you are no longer one of yours, no longer representing their interests. That's why you also have to make this accusation "Wendehals" fall. Before the coalition paper was there, they have also declared themselves relatively clearly to the artist's social security and book pricing, saying that these typical social democratic points have now been removed. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The Social Democracy has not been able to implement it!]] This is not understandable in the sense of a living bookstore, in the sense of a living artist scene in Austria. [[Abg. Head: Social security is inside!]] - Yes, Jörg Haider says it's back inside now. That is absolutely not credible. Until ten days ago it was called: Get out of it! [[Abg. Head: The artist social insurance is inside!]] I know it's inside now. I'll measure you by what you're doing. Federal Chancellor Schüssel! I can still remember – or actually I can't remember, because at that time I was still a lot too young, but I know – there was once a German chancellor who showed honor to a young artist at the first writer's congress by bowing down to himself. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Kreisky!]] - Yes, that was Kreisky. Now there is a federal chancellor who says in the "ZiB 2" in front of running cameras: The artists don't need to be afraid. . I honestly tell you what this has caused me. It was like Chernobyl, when any TV screenwriter said in front of the cameras: I repeat: There's no reason to panic! [[Abg. Head: If someone tells you that you have to be afraid, you have to prove the opposite!]] I don't really know what this phrase "artists don't need to fear," but what the coalition agreement says is a clear commitment to the past, directly into the past – folk culture, national foundation for cultural heritage – and in the present a black hole will be produced. This has a dangerous impact for me. If today I hear Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider in Carinthia say that the Bachmann competition is an in itself dead, sterile event that he does not appreciate very much, although everyone who has a little expertise in this field knows that it is the literature event that an international jury has, then this dangerous hit page already gets a very clear contour. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Because the heirs are trying to ban it now!]] I have also heard very often the words "performance orientation" or "export orientation", but art and culture are not an economic asset, because it is about something quite different. Finally, I would like to try to illustrate this. The momentous and terrible experience of the last century was the one where it can lead if, in the last consequence, one emphasizes the difference between man and man. That was Auschwitz in the last century. The only thing that can be opposed is democracy, pluralism, diversity. Pluralism, democracy, promoting diversity – this is cultural policy! And I miss this commitment to 100% in this government agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10607	Mr Schweitzer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. The Rules of Procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10631	Mrs Glawischnig! We will continue to put our attention on the matter and stick to the facts. You said it was broken in this government agreement with the tradition of the Austrian anti-atomic policy. There are no longer any points to deal with it. I say: In this declaration of government, the Austrian anti-atomic policy is much clearer and clearer and expressed the desire much more clearly than in all Vranitzky and climate statements. [[Abg. May. Posch: Is that an actual correction?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Actual correction!]] I quote from the program you apparently didn't read. It is clear and clear that the Federal Government will pay particular attention to the implementation of the anti-atomic package negotiated during the last legislative period, in the spirit of the five-party proposal, which we have negotiated and decided here together, exactly what the Greens and the Social... [[Abg. May. Posch: This is a debate!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That's already expired!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10703	Now we must pay attention to the border between the contribution to the discussion and the actual correction. Please stop the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10730	That is exactly what the Greens and the Social Democrats want, this Federal Government will implement in terms of anti-atomic policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10760	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. He's got the floor. But I have to interrupt you at 3 p.m. to be able to make the treatment of the urgent request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10782	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig has given the following keyword: They actually meant that Mr. Franz Morakein was a quergeist. – Ladies and gentlemen! Be proud that in a new federal government there are also new heads that will also re-rule. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where? Where are new heads at the ÖVP?]] That's exactly what you've always called for. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who do you mean?]] I very much welcome the fact that there is a Franz Morakin of this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where are new heads? Morak, Molterer – really very "new"!]] It is also exceptional, ladies and gentlemen, because for the first time in the history of this Second Republic, a State Secretary for Art and Media is himself an artist who, in a completely different way, can actively formulate from his own experience as regards artists in this country, and who will really be a good sign of the fact that this government will live up to the claim she himself claims to rerule Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that it is, in fact, just a new beginning. Today we have heard a dedicated government statement, we have an ambitious government programme available, and if you look at the government bank, you see, there are a whole series of new minds that are also quite interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Gehrer "new"! Molterer "new"! Cushion "new"!]] I would like to do so in all forms and with due regard to the correct Mr Edlinger, I would just like to say one more thing to each other: Mr Edlinger has given an impressive idea today. He said he didn't want to make a policy of burned books. Ladies and gentlemen, who heard him and saw who had to experience this image of displeasure and Grant, no longer sitting on this government bench, who could notice that a picture often says more than a thousand words. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Trattner.]] I believe that Social Democrat Edlinger, too, should have the size of recognizing now that a new government is sitting there, taking on a new responsibility, which, I believe, will be very ambitious and committed to this work. But there are not only things that change, there is also a continuity in this new federal government, which is that there will be an approach to the programme on foreign and European policy according to exactly the same principles as was the case in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: New?- Oh, my God!]] I would also like to invite everyone in this House to participate constructively in this foreign and European policy. The basic principles will remain: the commitment to Europe, also to an enlarged Europe. The basic principle will be to find a broad political consensus. It will be the basic principle of a good neighbourhood policy, just as Austria has used it in the past, also in this new Federal Government. I believe that these are fundamental principles on which we can stand as a People's Party, but which would also have to find a broad majority in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There are some interesting statements that can also be found in this new government programme. I don't want to go into all the details now, that's not enough time. Let me, however, highlight another aspect of personal concern, which is also a new aspect and which is important for Austrian workers. For the first time in this government programme, we have provided for the possibility that there will be a redundancie that in a kind of backpack model lets each employee take his or her claims, which he once acquired somewhere, all of his or her employees' lives. I think this is such a remarkable progress, a king's idea, that I would like to put it at the centre of my remarks, because my group, my Federation, the ÖAAB, has made sure that this is part of this government programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To enforce this new right of discharge – I would like to say that clearly – was unfortunately not possible in a coalition with the SPÖ – I would like to hold this very critically to you too – and apparently simply because you did not have the idea of doing so. It may not be that, if you claim to be there for workers as a party, you refuse a royal idea such as the handling new to a backpack principle, just because it has not come to your attention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hostish]] I don't think that's a good style. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Hostash: Do you know what you're talking about?]] I am very glad that we now find in this new government programme this idea for the worker and his future, as well as his pension rights, which he can also acquire if he wants to, can be implemented into reality. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your attention, as the time has now run out and we come to the urgent question. I will continue my remarks after the urgent request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10936	I am now interrupting the debate so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Mrs Eleonora Hostaschund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs on massive deterioration for workers, pensioners and social weakers through the FPÖ/ÖVP tax package in the field of pensions and statutory health insurance (332/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e10972	Since it is already at 3 p.m., we are now entering the urgent procedure for the written question 332/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11325	I give to Mrs Eleonora Hostaschal's first questioner for the reasons of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11350	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Dear High House! I would like to explain why this urgent question was put by me and other representatives of my group: because we find and experience that measures in the health field, in the pension sector, as well as in the labour market are concerned with basic interests of people, and no matter which government is concerned with the programme, there is great uncertainty when discussing measures or considering measures. Therefore, not only do I – I am convinced – meet with uncertainty among all of you in the population and a lot of questions that are to be answered and answered. I agree that, in the light of this new government programme, we have found very different interpretations, as well as some imprecise but also contradictory wordings, which I believe would be useful and important for them to be clarified in the short term so that the further political discussion can be conducted on a very concrete, very correct and clear basis. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, not to see this urgent request as an unkind act. [[Oye! - Call the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have only chosen the wrong name! You should have put the urgents on yourself!]] And I confess, Mr. Chief: That you said it was an opportunistic action has affected me because you, I think, know me well enough to know that opportunism is not my political style. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! However, I would also like to allow myself to make some fundamental comments on social and health policy, and you too would like to say a few basic points. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Hostasch, can I ask you something?]] Please, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do you think it is fair to ask a minister on the first day a urgent question?]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Khol, I too have been put into a situation several times to give important and difficult answers. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You didn't give a reply!]] I do not regard it as unfair, but I consider it to be correct, proper foundations in the sense of our parliamentary deliberations, on the basis of which we can and should be discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Was there a proper transfer of business?]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am convinced that when the government programme was drawn up, it was carefully considered what measures were to be taken and that it must therefore be possible to answer these questions. If there are any questions that cannot now be answered, I am convinced that Mrs Minister will answer these questions in an appropriate manner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to say what I believe to be a democratic society. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] How does it deal with minorities, with social weaknesses, with marginal groups? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: An interim question!]] - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is this your farewell?]] It will be my decision when I say goodbye, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] Respect for the House now forbids me to give you an appropriate answer, Mr President. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] However, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is important for a democratic society to: How does she define the role of women in society? How does it acknowledge itself to the participation of all in the prosperity of society? What is the right of existential protection and social protection in the event of sickness, invalidity and unemployment? How is it entitled to adequate care in old age? And do you confess that people have rights and are not beneficiaries of alms? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Federal Governments of the past decades have each felt committed to these goals under the leadership of a Social Democratic Chancellor together with the coalition partner. Federal Chancellor Dr. It was right to refer to the excellent state of our Republic on the labour market, social security, price stability, economic growth, and other things; also to our excellent health system, which is based on the fact that everyone and every person has the same access to all health services, regardless of whether they are young or old, whether they are man or woman, whether they are income-intensive or income-weak. In order to maintain these standards in the future, there is a need for permanent reforms, adaptations and also reorientations. The SPÖ acknowledges the fact that this is done with social balance, balance and human orientation. She has done this in the past and will do so in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A look at the German Federal Government's programme, however, makes us afraid that this path should not be continued, therefore – once again – these urgent ones, in order to have and to get at the beginning clarity about the intentions, especially in the pension, work and health field. I believe that the people have a right to know about the intentions of the new government. Dear Member Dr. Pumberger! I have read the government programme very carefully, and I have also found a great deal of knowledge of what I have already found in another programme, which has not been signed, but I have also found a lot of things where there are uncertainties, inaccuracies and contradictions, and I think it is Parliament's right to get clarity here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I can therefore also ask you whether you intend to intensify the statutory pension criteria, regardless of the labour market situation, in the short term and yet very dramatic. Do you seriously intend not only to change the retirement age, but also to introduce massive reductions, far beyond the existing rules? Do you find it socially compatible to significantly increase the net replacement rate for a rather small group of insured persons, not to say privileged ones, while at the same time reducing those who are pushed out of the labour process, out of the job opportunity, and prevented from working longer? To make it even easier to say: Should those who have the possibility of longer employment receive a net replacement rate of up to 90 percent and those who do not have this opportunity because they are denied this opportunity even fall below 70 percent of the net replacement rate? Dear ladies and gentlemen! When reading the program, I also got the impression that you assume that we have a working world in which everyone and everyone can actually choose when to retire. It must be another world in which you live. I experience a working world in which it is not possible to choose the pension on its own initiative, but it is here that the employer's side is one-sided when the pension is due to take place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few comments on the health sector. As the Federal Chancellor has already said: Austria can be proud of our system, and the OECD has also attributed high quality to our health system. It is the principle of equal access, but also the principle of compulsory insurance, which makes this system possible for us. But I say very openly: I see in this programme how these principles will be abandoned. I would therefore also like to make it clear whether there is a change in the balance between health and the sick, between the elderly and the young, between poor risks and good risks, between women and men, between people who contribute, and those who are free of contributions. You speak of a restraint of up to 20 percent, and you formulate: "The health insurance companies are authorised to set a self retention of up to 20 percent in their statutes." – The benefits are not differentiated here: whether they are medicines, medical visits, hospital stays, surgery or births. Therefore, our calculations show that in the event that self-retaining is introduced in this form and according to your entire text, there would be an additional burden on workers and pensioners of 11 billion schilling. I therefore believe that it is important to maintain clarity on this issue as well. Allow me also to say that it seems cynical to me if the individual health insurance institution is to be authorised to introduce these self-holds into the statutes as necessary or as good as possible. You know for yourself that the structure of the insured persons of a health insurance institution is crucial to the performance of a health insurance institution, and when it is differentiated between those carriers who have many risks to bear, where poor payers are insured and who have many benefits to do, and those who have a favourable cost structure, this is the first step towards the de-olidarisation of our system, the first step to play out the disease against healthy people, performance against poor performance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is also the first step that could become a risk for us, depending on where insurance companies are insured. I think it is also known to you that cases from the United States and other countries have not been able to obtain and are impoverished in the event of a long illness due to the cost of this disease. This may even create really dramatic situations for individuals or families, as I know from my own experience from the family. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will also make every effort in the opposition role to ensure that disease cannot and will not become an existential criterion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Work, health and social affairs, whether they are responsible or otherwise structured, are central issues and concerns for the vast majority of our population. Most of our fellow citizens depend on their own labour force to provide for themselves and their families and also for the corresponding social security. I therefore believe that it is very important to always take appropriate balance in this area and to keep an eye on all measures. I consider it a very worrying signal when the topics of the working world are transferred to the new economic resort. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] This leaves a proven path and goes on the way to working towards partnership. This is clearly the signal that the economy will be able to exercise its dominant role even more dominantly and that the labour factor will have a secondary role in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, I wish the Federal Minister and her State Secretary success in a government concept that has a neoliberal approach, because it is very difficult for social and health politicians to be responsible for the actual implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11585	To answer the urgent question, the new Mrs. Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs, Dr. Elisabeth Sickl, has reported. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11608	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I was born on Friday, 4th. Feber 2000, by Mr. President of the Federal Minister for Labour, Health and Social Affairs, as the Ministry is still called. I am therefore only in office for five days and now have the opportunity for the first time to represent here in the House my ideas regarding the future social policy of this Federal Government. I do not regard this urgent request as an unkind act. On the contrary: I am very grateful that my predecessor, Mrs Hostasch, is giving me the opportunity to present my ideas to this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The high priority given to this newly appointed Federal Government of Social Policy is still confirmed by this urgent request from my predecessor, although apparently unwanted. [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] At the same time, I would like to ask the House to understand that I must focus on preparing the informal meeting of the Social Ministers in Lisbon on Friday; I am very happy to be able to participate there. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is an exception!]] It is necessary that, through our good will and our constructive cooperation, we also create a good climate in the EU. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I will have the honour of representing Austria at this informal ministerial meeting, and it is important to be involved in the development of the European social standard. In particular, Austria's position in the field of social policy at European level must also be ensured in the long term. Allow me now to turn to the urgent question, which states that the new Federal Government would cause massive deterioration for workers, pensioners, women and the socially weak in the area of pension and health insurance. – I would like to point out at the outset that these allegations are completely out of the air! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As you will see, the opposite is the case. Austria spends around 30 percent of the gross domestic product on social security measures. The vast majority of these expenditures, amounting to more than 700 billion schillings annually, fall within the pension insurance system, which covers in Austria the provision of old age, survivors and invalidity. The cost of covering the disease risk is also closely linked to the ageing process. In total, more than 80 percent of social expenditure is directly or indirectly related to the ageing process. Today's Austrian pension insurance system is based on the payment procedure and is financed by contributions from employees and service providers who are included in the additional wage costs, and tax funds, the federal contribution. The financial situation of social security is to document the following data: In 1970, as a percentage of gross domestic product, pension expenditure was 7.5 percent, and in 2000 10.6 percent. An in-depth study by Professor Rürup on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs shows that this percentage would rise to 14.2 percent by 2030. The Federal contribution as a percentage of gross domestic product was 2% in 1970, 2.5 percent in 2000 and 6.1 percent in 2030. On the demographic situation: Life expectancy at birth will increase in men from currently 73.3 years to 79 years in 2030, with women expected to increase life expectancy from 79.7 to 85 years in the same period. The ratio of the 60-year-olds to the 15- to under-60-year-olds will increase from 31.5 in 1994 to 61.8 in 2030. That is, in 2030 every third citizen will be over 60 years old. The basic problems of the pension system are the rise in life expectancy, the change in the age structure of the population and the related effects on the labour market. These problems can only be addressed by three measures, either through increases in contributions or by a later retirement age or by reductions in benefits. The current pension system is based on the payment procedure. Accordingly, pensions are financed by the contributions of the employees. After this fictitious generation contract, the young generation directly finances the age benefit of the older generation. The Austrian pension system, in its design, corresponds to the payment model, which is basically based on the principle of insurance. The focus is on maintaining the standard of living in old age. The Austrian pension system is now at risk by the dramatic development of individual indicators. Considering the development of the various indicators since 1970, the drama of the situation becomes clear. Thus, pension expenditure has increased more than tenfold. At the latest since a study by the Advisory Council on Economic and Social Affairs, which was drawn up in 1991, it is known that the current statutory pension insurance system and the benefits guaranteed there are long-term unfinancing. The contribution and tax increases necessary for the continuation of the system in its present form would lead to an announcement of the so-called generation contract. My predecessor, a few days ago, was also well aware of the dramatic nature of this development, which is why she continued the series of so-called pension reforms through a further pension reform in 1997. All these pension reforms have led to a slight reduction in pension benefits, for example by deterioration in pension adjustments, extension of settlement periods and the like, without rehabilitating the pension system as such. The 1997 pension reform, which was praised by you, Mrs Hostasch, in the highest tones, has by far missed her goal. In recent times, you have also recognized this by seeing you and your group see the need for further reforms. However, it was only after the last National Council election of the 3rd. October 1999. The main problem of the current pension system is that the most important thing is to insist on the payment or tax grant procedure, while some of the internationally proven capital coverage procedures are already taken into account. Unfortunately, the third contributor, the return on the financial markets, is still unprofitable in Austria. The university professor Rürup, who was used by you as a pension expert, recently carried out the following: There is no doubt that the future belongs to multi-layer models. The first shift consists of a basic guarantee financed, the second shift is a capital-covered operating provision, which, as a third layer, is supplemented by a private provision. Such a multi-layer system is already well realized in the Netherlands, but especially in Switzerland. In the Netherlands, 50 percent of old-age insurance accounts for the basic system financed, 40 percent for supplementary business systems and 10 percent for voluntary pension schemes. In Switzerland, the ratio is 42 percent pay finance, 32 percent occupational pension, and 26 percent private provision. A particular problem in the financing of pensions is the particularly low retirement age in Austria. Of 100 potential employees – listen carefully! – between 55 and 64 years work in Switzerland 71, in Norway 67, in Japan 64, in the USA 58, in Germany 39, and in Austria not even 30 employees. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Why do you think this is so?]] Rürup says that the actual retirement age could only be raised by means of a real and more efficient system than that of the 1997 reform. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you, Mrs Hostasch, are now carrying out your urgent request that the measures envisaged by our government, which I would like to explain below, will lead to massive deterioration for workers, women, pensioners and socially weak people, I must point out that your previous social policy has led to nearly a million Austrians living under the poverty line according to the poverty report drawn up by the Social Ministry. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One million! That's your value!]] It is actually a million! In addition, women's pensions are far below those of men. This is the result of the social policy pursued under decades of social democratic leadership! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In March 1997, the Wall Street Journal (Wall Street Journal) assessed the reputation of such a policy, particularly in the field of pensions abroad: "The European public pension systems with their payment procedures are reminiscent of the Albanian financial pyramid games." Not the government programme of the new Federal Government has shaken confidence in the Austrian pension system, but the years of negligent social democrats' dealings with old age insurance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The measures provided for by the new Federal Government in the field of pension law are by no means a tax package, as you, Mrs Hostasch, have done. It should be noted, however, that the measures envisaged are far from sufficient to meet those which you, Mrs Hostasch, and your former colleague, Mr Edlinger, have planned or negotiated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You have taken the following measures in the scoreboard for a government programme between SPÖ and ÖVP: gradually increasing the early retirement pension for long periods of insurance, unemployment and the two-year sliding board – in our government programme it is only one and a half years –; increasing the age of access to early retirement due to reduced employability; increasing the statutory retirement age for officials by two years; Increase the pension contributions of active officials and pensioners by 0.95 per cent each; the pension adjustment will in future have to be based on the objective of ensuring value while taking into account a life expectancy factor; Increase the self-financing share of self-employed and farmers. With these measures you yourself have expressed that you do not consider the pension system to be safe and that is why serious cuts are necessary. They have greatly shaken the trust of the Austrian population by the omissions of recent years. Each Austrian is still in memory of the fact that before the 1995 National Council election, your former Chancellor Vrannitzky has promised not to affect the pensions. In the following years, this promise was not met several times by your side to the detriment of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Very right!]] Even before the 1999 National Council election, the chairman of your Pensionist Association, Mr. Karl Blecha, as well as Mr. Alt-Bundeskanzler Vranitzky and other key politicians of your group, have turned their eyes to the Austrian Sand. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is polemics from the government bank!]] Our current government programme is trying to restore confidence in the pension system by planning and implementing measures in a socially acceptable way. I cordially invite you to cooperate constructively in this implementation! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For example, the government programme foresees that the retirement age will not be increased by two years, but only by one and a half years. [[Abg. Silhavy: When?]] For example, the government programme provides that long-term insured persons can continue retirement at the age of 60, which was not provided for in your programme, and that child-retirement periods are considered as real contribution periods for women. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For example, our government programme provides that the pension contribution for pensioners and officials' pension contributions will only be increased by 0.8 per cent and not by 0.95 per cent, as you have planned. This is how our government program – as this university professor Rürup called for – provides an efficient bonus malus system that provides an incentive to work longer. [[Abg. Silhavy: For which people?]] Thus, a pact will be provided for older workers, who will allow them to remain in the acquisition process if they wish. Furthermore, our government programme provides for a future-proof pension system to be developed through the so-called settlement of a new pension fund scheme. In addition, our government programme is designed to ensure the confidence of young people and pensioners in the stability and financing of the public pension system in a sustainable way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is why, under my chairmanship, an expert committee on framework planning will be set up. I will pay particular attention to the fact that the citizens concerned, but also their representatives, such as the ÖGB and pension organisations, can present their problems and proposals and are involved in the decision-making process. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Our government programme assumes in all its approaches that existing pensions do not intervene and that the value of pensions will be guaranteed in the future. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As your question, Mrs Hostasch, also includes comments on the Austrian health system, I would like to make the following point: In your request, it is also claimed that our government programme threatens a two-class medicine. – I must reject this claim because the new Federal Government will make every effort to maintain the current high level of the Austrian health system. I attach great importance to the fact that, in principle, equal access to all medical services is given according to professionally defined quality standards for all and that no rationing of benefits is carried out according to the age, gender or financial performance criteria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I will also draw attention to the promotion of quality assurance measures in all areas of the health system. In addition, I will also try to strengthen health care in addition to the repair health care system. As part of my work, I will also make massive efforts to increase patient rights and to force training for the entire health sector. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Hostasch! Your fear that a "punishment tax" as you have said will now be introduced by 20 percent is unfounded. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A terrible word!]] Please don't let us work with the motive of fear! Our citizens are worried! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Please, let's stay on the ground of reality and let's not put one another down to things that don't exist at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] This applies to all parties represented in the National Council! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Rather, our programme primarily provides that the efficiency of social security institutions is increased and that social security providers should be put together if this makes it possible to increase efficiency, reduce costs and achieve synergies. I am therefore not going to take any effort to encourage social security institutions to implement these important reform measures, and to support and control them. I am convinced that health insurance companies will make every effort to achieve this goal in the interests of the insured. I am convinced that this objective will also be achieved and therefore the empowerment of health insurance providers to collect self retention does not have to be exhausted by them at all. In addition, I note that the authorisation to collect self-retain only applies to practical doctors, specialists and ambulatorys, but not to hospital stays and operations, and, of course, children, chronically ill and socially weak are excluded. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Huber: You have no idea!]] I should also like to point out that this system of self-retaining in health insurance replaces the much discussed health certificate fee. In this context, I regret that you, Mrs Hostasch, the new Federal Government, and therefore I also believe that we are putting the small people in the bag. [[Abg. Huber: That's what you do with self-retaining!]] I know that the measures I have envisaged will be financially relieved by the more socially weak and previously disadvantaged citizens, so that even in the future, two-class medicine does not arise, it does not lead to de-olidarization but – on the contrary! – to strengthen the solidarity of the different groups of the population. [[Abg. Huber: With self-retaining, they are relieved?]] Mr President. This urgent question contains 63 detailed questions, whose answer is not possible during the scheduled speaking time. In addition, the concrete response to the individual questions would require that there be at least a surveyed ministerial draft. The questions raised relate to proposals on proposed legislative changes. At present, however, there is no such bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, I shall submit a written reply to each question.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11918	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. I'm just hearing that there's a statement on the management. Please, Mr Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e11945	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Your answer why you cannot answer this request is insufficient. They are in violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. May. Main: That's wrong!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is quite possible to answer some of the questions raised here, Mrs Federal Minister. The answers do not require the concrete text of the law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] There are a number of questions that can be answered very precisely by you – even with the knowledge of now and today! [[New calls to the liberals.]] I really think it's a sense that you're here to tell us 20 minutes in general about social affairs, but don't answer a question!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12005	For business treatment: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12026	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You should study the Rules of Procedure, Mr Oellinger. Of course, such an answer is possible, according to § 93 para. 4 of the National Council of Business Regulations. Study that! I can remind you that such responses have also occurred during an earlier government, for example in the 41st and 49th respectively. A meeting of the XX. The legislative period of the SPÖ Federal Chancellor Vranitzky, who was in office at the time, also submitted the answer to the urgent question in writing, after he had not answered in any way as detailed as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12059	For business treatment: Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12081	Mr President. The problem is not that the Federal Minister would have the right to act as he has done. The problem is that it has justified its action and that the reason for not answering these questions is not sufficient. What she said may be reduced to some detail question, but she did not answer any question. It is a prelude to the House that a pension reform, a change in the pension scheme is announced, but one is not prepared to answer just one question here. That's a real scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12119	For business treatment: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12141	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If Mr Westenthaler explains that there is no obligation to answer the questions and refers to a practice that has actually existed during the last legislative periods, I note here that the new style of the ÖVP/FPÖ majority is obviously the old style, namely: not to answer concrete questions whose answer would be possible. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is not a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Call to the liberals: This is not a debate on the Rules of Procedure!]] It is possible for the Federal Minister to answer some of the questions. And she has given a false explanation for why she does not answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12200	For business treatment: Mr Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12221	I would like to add § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure: "The surveyed member of the Federal Government or the member of the Federal Government within the meaning of § 19 para. The Secretary of State has the obligation to deliver an opinion on the subject after the reasons for the request and before entering the debate, but an oral reply is also required in accordance with § 91 para. 4 to be allowed." [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Right!]] That means that it is the freedom of choice of the Minister whether she gives an oral opinion or whether she answers the questions in detail. It has clearly done what the Rules of Procedure require of it: It has delivered an opinion and has therefore fulfilled its duty. In addition, I would like to say that it is really a highlight of unfairness that a Federal Minister, who has been in office for five years, covers a minister who is in office for five days with 63 questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12262	For business treatment: Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The specific question to be solved is: How's this house going? [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman:Ha! Ha! Ha!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Have eight in front of the SPÖ!]] The pension reform is a central issue for many Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Where is business treatment?]] To postpone the clarification of this question to months, but until then to operate political propaganda as soon as one has left this House is unbearable. The Federal Government here has a speech and an answer to the House. However, the answer given by Mr Klubobmann Khol clearly means that the members of the Federal Government no longer think of it. They don't want to account for the High House. And that is what we cannot accept!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12348	For business treatment: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12370	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, I would like to remind you once again that during the time you were in the government, you did not answer urgent questions on the following grounds: ==References====External links== A meeting of the XX. GP – I quote –: "Mr. President! For the purposes of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, and in particular taking into account the time laid down therein, the reply to each 39 questions shall be submitted in writing, provided that this has not already been done." – Reason missing. Further 49. Meeting: "... and will answer the individual questions in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure." [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are you doing?]] – Reason missing. I think it is good that the Federal Minister has given a statement of reasons. And if you speak of respect for this House, I ask you: Where has the Federal Chancellor and Group President of the SPÖ Viktor Klima remained until recently? Mr Oellinger! If you ask us: What's the new style of this government? The new style of this government and also of the ÖVP and FPÖ groups is that we adhere to the laws of the country and to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12430	There is no further mention of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore refer to § 93 para. 4 and would like to inform him again. This section reads: "The surveyed member of the Federal Government or the member of the Federal Government within the meaning of § 19 para. The Secretary of State has a duty to give an opinion on the subject after the reasons for the request" – which is also given by Mrs Eleonora Hostasch – "and before entering the debate, an oral reply is also required in accordance with § 91 para. 4 permitted. The opinion or reply should not exceed 20 minutes." There is certainly an opinion on this matter. I will therefore continue the negotiations and give the floor to the next speaker, Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12463	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Sozialminister in particular! Ladies and gentlemen. I deliberately say social minister, because today we have heard clearly that "work" is not only distributed from the title, but that problems such as labour law, labour market, worker protection, labour inspectorate are transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Whoever wins here, I leave that to your imagination, it's certainly not the workers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would call it unfair myself if, after five days' term of office, we had already asked the Minister of State for an activity report. We simply wanted to know how to interpret certain social matters, especially the subject of pensions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Calm down again! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister will know that. She needs to know what she's been up to, and where she's been saying great things: To whom God gives an office, he also gives the power! – In front of her Bearental "God" she surely passed away today. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Very good! That was a compliment!]] Not one of the 63 questions has been answered. I was quite excited if I would come along with the letter while answering the questions. I could put my pencil aside useless, and I think this is a thing of a special kind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But as far as the "shocking" is concerned, you were wonderful. The 20 minutes speaking time was obviously enough for this. – That’s why the praise of the Bearental will be safe for you too. They criticise the 1997 pension reform. Not even you know this, Mrs. Federal Minister: that first steps have only taken place in January of this year and that it is not yet estimated what is going to happen at all; whether you need to improve or not improve or at which time you need to improve. The "package of horrors" has called your over-over-cancellor from the Bear Valley of that paper that was chordd between SPÖ and ÖVP. Mr. Khol has already overstepped this paper today. Although I was against this paper from the house, I recognize the efforts of my party to go to the outside in order to prevent this blue-black for Austria. But there were blatant negotiations, and hardly anything you've gotten, you've improved with your demands again. Today I say: It's very good it came like this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Again and again, you say that or that was stated in this paper. Of course, you now want to increase the access time to the early board only by one and a half years, but you start with it earlier. – I would call that a crime of trust protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What?]] It was about: and/or! We said either a malus rule or an increase in times. – Now we start earlier, have "only" one and a half years, but we also have discounts for that. This is a blow for workers and pensioners if I look at just these two chapters! On the impact on the budget, ladies and gentlemen – not the whole package, but what we are discussing today in the emergency – I believe that this "equal weight" is all about. There will be no reorganisation by the social package in the budget. It is only re-storyed: at the expense of self-employed workers, to large farmers and large entrepreneurs. That is why Mr Schwarzenberger is so happy too! Mr Feurstein is less happy, and in view of the standing ovations, Mr Gaugg has even adopted today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Start with you the big farmers at two hectares? Obviously!]] - Yeah, probably. We'll see who this is. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The fictitious exodus affects only the poor farmers who receive up to 5 000 s pension, and not the big farmers!]] I have to budget my speaking time, Mr Schwarzenberger! I just grab a part of point 1 chapter 2: "At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that insured persons with a contribution duration of at least 45 years can continue to retire with 60. For women child-retirement periods should be considered as real contribution times." Do you know that a woman's early retirement age is 55 years old? If a woman should retire under this 45-year-old scheme with 55-year-olds – because you do so – then I must tell you that we have child labour in that country, because then she should have started working at the age of ten. You can break that on your tongue once! How's that? - There's nothing here! Are there any discounts, there are no discounts? Extension of the bonus malus system. – I would say that the bonus will not affect even 5 percent of pensioners, for which Malus actually almost all, I would say 98 percent. Because you're already building on the previous deposits – you're pretending you didn't exist – then it's not like we're going from 10 to 20 percent. You didn't answer that! Is there now the regulation: two plus one plus one plus one, or do we stay with the previous one and there are two plus one plus one plus one? Then we'd be at 30 percent. I didn't want to accept this horror scenario. That is why the answer to this urgent question would have been so important. We would have expected answers here so that we could then also argue to the people outside that it might not be as bad as it looks. But this blurry answer, which in fact has not dealt with our questions at all, still makes us fall into the dark. Further: "Full abandonment of retirement provisions for pensioners in the event of retirement". – Something that doesn't exist, I can do away with, that's great. But this has a signal effect: They probably do not trust themselves that in the future the people of their pensions will still be able to live. I also find a sentence: "Check and resulting necessary harmonisation of the conditions of access to all types of sickness-related pension". – Ladies and gentlemen! I also think that this is a very dangerous threat! We have the intention of making one-off payments and paying fixed and base amounts to more socially weak, that is to say. – Is this the memorial caretaker of your graces that you call socially weaker? Or who is that? If you have only one intention, you can say goodbye to such a statement of intent very quickly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The following reforms, which the Federal Minister intends to negotiate in a working group, will also be negotiated at the latest by 1. ==References====External links== – So once again an attack on the protection of trust, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is again something in the completely different direction, namely further tax promotion of private pension provision. So if you can afford it, you'll have to get rid of it again. In view of these facts, I already see that you do not want to give concrete answers, because then the agreement could have been made much more concrete. By the way, I apologize for the word "crime." I wanted to say "attack," I apologize in every form. The choice of words was not correct. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The German Chancellor's spatula has already been remarkable today: a proud reference to how good this country is, an absolute praise for the social democratic government, because one can still take a little bit of a nap here. Is that the reason for the turn? The Federal Chancellor is the preparer for this turn. – No, it’s something quite different: He may not have wanted the turn, but he wanted to live a dream, a dream with fatal consequences for our country. – That is what I call political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! "Social policy" – in this double word, we finally say goodbye to "social". The awakening will be terrible! I can repeat here a quote that I said a few days ago: Let's just sell the last cow, so we can expand the stable!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12609	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12631	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated members of the Federal Government! This urgent question by Mrs Hostasch on the question of pensions is a single self-reliance; the reactions of the Social Democrats show it. The farewell of the Federal Chancellorship after 30 years has apparently caused deep wounds in you. I have to tell you something, Mrs Hostasch: The first urgent thing you should have said as a Member of this House would have been that of your own group, namely the failure of the last 30 years to pursue sound social policy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Solid social policy, given the fact that, according to your words, there are about a million people in Austria living at the poverty line? There's been a woman's popular desire. – The conditions listed therein are not fulfilled! [[Abg. May. Plank: You now have the opportunity to comply with this!]] Equal opportunities for workers and employees, a long-term programme. – Not fulfilled. The decline in the nationalized industry with thousands of jobs is your responsibility! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I can understand the excitement: The excitement is therefore so great because you yourself are ashamed of the outcome of recent years in social policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Actually, you should question her. You should ask if you should not, at least at last, delete the word "social" from your company name "Social Democratic Party", because you have had nothing left for the people of this country in recent years! [[Intervoke by Dr. Mertel and Dietachmayr.]] I'll give you a few examples. Johann S., file envelope. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – Mrs Mertel, calm down! It is otherwise to be feared that the SPÖ suffers the same fate as in Carinthia. Listen a little! Give those who took responsibility in this country a few days ago, at least a fair chance! Mrs Hostasch asked the current Federal Minister for Social Affairs to answer 63 questions five days after their accession. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ:And not even one has she answered!]] Apparently, the memory of the former Social Democratic government members only goes back to the day of the failure of the government negotiations with the ÖVP, for otherwise they would still have in memory the horrors they performed. Mrs. Federal Minister! Nine years ago, there was a work programme for a reform: Social Security Institutions, Federal Ministry of Social Affairs. At that time 907 proposals for improvement were drawn up. Of these 907 reform proposals, some have been implemented quantitatively, as you know. For example, one has come to the conclusion that it would be useful to put a common paper on the market. – A great performance! To date, however, it has failed to achieve actual savings potential, namely in the field of computer science. Each social security institution has its own computer system, which devours the total cost of 1.1 billion schilling. If you had not managed this way in recent years, the measures would not be necessary today! But they have created a privilege paradise for some artists. I can give you a few examples of this: Have you forgotten the case of Praschak? Have you forgotten all these things? Is that all history? Is your pro-thinking over yet? - I'm sure not. I'll tell you where you're still shining. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] And now, because Mr. Oellinger is already waiting with great interest, I come to the matter. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] It's about pensions. There are people in Austria who, thanks to 30-year-old Social Democratic Chancellorship, do not even receive a minimum pension. On the other hand, for example, an accountant receives 37 000 S, not a year, but 15 times a year, a garage champion 43 000 S, 15 times a year, an employee in the house administration 56 000 S, 15 times a year. There is a certain Johann S. in the case of the case-law, who has said and writes 72 000 S every month, and that 15 times a year! – This is the result of your social policy! For this reason, reforms are necessary. They have approved all these privileged temples, including Oesterreichische Nationalbank, from this area, namely the examples mentioned above. They have always saved only the workers and the small employees. And that will certainly change in the future. You can be sure of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have always talked about administrative reform, red tape and the like, but what have you done? – You have introduced the construction site coordinator. Another adventure, something no one needs. - Just a small example on the edge. They were masters of the arts industry. I can only explain to myself why you are crying, why Mr Vergestnich too is crying such crocodile tears: The farewell of power must be painful! I'm telling you, the role of the opposition is not so bad. If you take the work seriously, you can move a lot. But if you're suffering as much as the SPÖ fraction and just worried about its posts, then I have to say, I'm ashamed. In many areas of social policy, you have done a lot of damage, and there will be some good things to do. I am thinking, in this context, of the "consumer", the nationalists and more. I'm telling you, We would like to join the social dialogue if you are seriously interested in working to ensure that the majority of people in this country are doing well. But: If you had pursued such a good social policy in recent years, then you would not have run away from the voters in crowds. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have abandoned those who have put their trust in you for years. I can assure you: We liberals will send signals that people in our country are going to be better again, that there is a future for apprentices, that employees have a decent income and that pensions are permanently secured! It was you who explained a few years ago that the pension reform that you have carried out went far into the next millennium. – We don’t have until the beginning of 2000, and it’s not possible anymore. The same applies to the aggregation of social security institutions and the like. I can tell you the following: After 30 years of social policy by the Social Democracy and a Social Democratic Chancellor, it will do well to our country and its people once there is a change, to a political and spiritual change in the interest of the majority – not in the interest of a few less people who live like parasites in that state because you have favored them.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12753	Mr Gottfried Feurstein was mentioned next word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12777	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hostasch, I am also disappointed that you are producing here and are trying in this way to interpret your proposals, which essentially come from you and the SPÖ, here, ladies and gentlemen. That's not fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was your Minister of Finance who pointed out that in the field of pension insurance, 15 billion schilling were missing. I have never heard of you, ladies and gentlemen, that money is missing, that changes need to be made here. On the contrary! We have always heard from the Ministry of Social Affairs: We don't need to change anything, everything's fine! It is not fair to have the proposals that come from the SPÖ interpreted by a new Minister of Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Your proposals, your questions, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Hostasch, were also formulated cynically. I'm just mentioning the question 24. They ask: "How will the personal pension account to be introduced be designed for each insured person from 1.1.2001?" At the same time, I read – not in the joint FPÖ/ÖVP paper, but in the SPÖ position paper for government negotiations – new pension model for professionals through transparency over an individual pension account. Why do you ask Mrs Minister if the proposal comes from you? You need to know what an "individual pension account" means. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Rider: We would have known how to do this! We wanted to know about you!]] Mrs Hostasch! I also ask – I was not at the time when the transfer of the official transactions took place –: How did you hand over the office to the new Minister of Social Affairs? How to have You introduced her? How did you explain this to her? Did you ever do that? I would like to have a reply from you to whether you have correctly handed over the duties or whether some things were not immediately understandable here. I do not know, but would like to have an answer to this question, Madam President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Enrolment!]] Yes, we believe, ladies and gentlemen, that our social system needs to be adapted from time to time. We've always said that. They have then repeatedly refused to take such steps. I am just thinking of a proposal from the SPÖ, which reads: We do not have to change anything, we simply increase the contributions by one or two tenths of points! This is not even a beer for the person concerned per month. To this end, we have said: No, the way in social policy, which has gone until 1986, must not continue. We must not continue to burden the working population, because this will result in no more contributions being received. We have gone the other way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We consciously went the other way. And I'll find out here: Since 1986 there has been no increase in pension insurance contributions for the self-employed. There was, however, a number of improvements in our social and pension system, which we agreed with you. Pensions have been increased by much more in many years than by the inflation rate. We have increased the compensatory allowances by much more than the inflation rate, thus bringing the pensioners, the older generation, out of poverty and saving many from poverty. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to continue this path so that there is no impoverishment of pensioners. Therefore, we will not intervene in existing pensions either. This has to be clearly stated here: There is no intervention in existing pensions, but existing pensions are to be increased annually to the extent of the devaluation. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] There must be no impoverishment of pensioners! But we will defend ourselves with all our means, ladies and gentlemen. Similarly, we will resist simply asking certain groups, which we do not like, to check out. Such a group that you don't like are the farmers at SPÖ, for example. Why have you hacked on the farmers again and again? [[Mr Hostasch, Mr Mertel and Mr Wurm.]] We will not do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Who has introduced the social security scheme for farmers at all? Bruno Kreisky!]] We want to have evaluated the groups as soon as possible, ladies and gentlemen. Now you've done it again, Mrs. Colleague. With various requests, you have subverted the farmers into the discussion: Yeah, they're gonna get something extra. [[Abg. Huber: The big farmers! The industrialists and the large farmers!]] They could be helped in the case of the compensatory allowances, in the case of expropriation. – Against submissions we defend ourselves! Farmers must also receive a pension! Mr Donabauer will come to speak on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I've already noticed the following – I really have to say that –: The state we have today was caused by a policy for which responsibility was given to social ministers and to finance ministers. These two are both responsible for this. We, the ÖVP, have then tried to support this. We even carried along quite a lot when it came to the renovation. That is why we have often been criticized. Some voters or some voters may not have elected us because we have been rehabilitated because we have said we need healthy state finances, we need a healthy economy, we need a healthy pension insurance in our country. That is why some will not have chosen us. We have also often been criticized by the FPÖ because we have tried responsibly with the SPÖ to reorganise the system. We have done this, and we will continue to do so, and we will now do so with those responsible for the FPÖ. But I also say: Responsible for the disaster, which has repeatedly occurred, were and are the SPÖ Social Ministers and the SPÖ Finance Ministers. There's no way past that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where have you been for the last decades? You're giving yourself the resolution!]] We do not distance ourselves, but the responsibility is primarily yours – there you can say what you want. In 1986 the situation was the worst. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] A renovation had to be started with Minister Dallinger at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where have you been for the last decades?]] We can truly say today that we have not neared the situation we had in 1986 – thank God! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're giving yourself the resolution now!]] Now I'm saying something: Yes, it was the proposal that was discussed until three weeks ago that the retirement age for early retirement should be increased by two years. In the negotiations that followed, we said that it was not possible, and we have mitigated it – I would like to say it quite clearly. It will be increased by one and a half years. [[Abg. Huber: But less pension until the end of life!]] This is certainly a very tough measure for some. But the one who has worked for his entire life, who has 45 years of contributions, can retire if he has the 45 years of contributions – even at 60 years. That was not included in your program! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The sub-pension will be deleted, ladies and gentlemen. This one won't be there anymore. We will also come to a re-evaluation of child rearing times, so that the women who have not been able to work who have not been able to acquire contribution periods will not continue to be disadvantaged. These are some changes, and I welcome it, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Minister has announced that the concrete implementation of this programme should be carried out by an expert group, an expert group of experts who belong to the social partners and in which the parliamentarians of all four parties represented here should also be represented, Mrs Minister. I would ask you to create a genuine transparency here when it comes to implementation, also transparency towards the public, so that people know what they expect, and very soon expect. For the uncertainty that has been done must no longer continue. Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, I would also like the Minister of the Interior to see her task fully and fully carried out for the benefit of the elderly and the younger people and the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e12976	The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13000	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I try to summarise briefly what I believe can be said not only for the social chapter but for this overall government agreement in a few sentences: Faster to NATO, later to the pension, less for social security, more relief for businesses, no end of exclusion inwards, for isolation outside. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But these are not sentences! These are keywords – and the wrong ones!]] This can also be pointed out in the social field in terms of point and emphasis. That's the problem. A huge potential of redistribution from bottom to top is defined by what is tried to formulate in the social chapter: over 30 billion schilling! I would not have dared to imagine in my boldest dreams that the little people, of whom the liberals would always like to speak, would have received these 30 billion. No, vice versa! From those it is removed by the reduction of social benefits! From them it will be taken away and given to those who already have! That is why, although this social chapter is completely ashamed of the fact that there is still poverty in this country – "yet" you think – but you have not heard anything about the fact that this poverty has only grown in recent years. [[Abg. Young: Tell the SPÖ!]] Yes, that's also a Merit the SPÖ, but as a government party, you now have a responsibility for this change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. F vanlinger, Mag. Chief, young and wenitsch.]] But obviously you haven't heard anything about it at all, Mr Firlinger, since you never hear anything – that wealth in this country has also increased considerably and that every government has to shoulder responsibility: Who gives them and who takes them? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Direct the criticism to your opposition partner!]] They have answered these questions in such a way that they give to those who already have. This has to be clearly stated here. You take it away from the simple little people. Whether at the pension, whether in the case of health insurance – there are examples up to the holiday –: They're taking it away from them. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Your opposition partner is the goal of criticism!]] I'll give you an example. You write in your government program: The Federal Government wants to help those who are inadequate or unable to help themselves. – A dangerous sentence, but let's leave it that way. Let's examine him! What's he doing? What's he doing here? – Let me give you an example: I just got on the street two days ago from a woman, and – you can believe that! – it's a damn hard thing for you to have to answer these people, that unfortunately there's nothing to be done. This woman is 51 years old, has worked for 35 years, racked for little money. At the age of 50, she has become unemployed – you still have nothing to do with it – and has then applied for emergency aid and, of course, has not been admitted to emergency aid – a consequence of the policies of the last decades. Her request was rejected because her husband has income. What's the man's income? - 13 000 S, from a pension. That is enough to have no right to unemployment insurance benefits in this Republic, although it has worked for 35 years. By the way, I can only imagine that there are some suspicious indications in this government agreement – but we are not talking about the suspect, but only about the facts. The point is: What changes for this woman? – Now I could ask you from the ÖVP/FPÖ coalition: Help them! Improve the situation for this woman, so that she doesn't have anything, is out of control just because her husband has such a " vastly high" income – under quotes, so that she can understand the sarcasm as well. – Help She's her! They're not doing anything, okay. That doesn't distinguish you from the old coalition. The point is: Where does this government agreement make it more difficult for this woman with her 51 years of age? I can see this in this government agreement, because that was also a reason why she complained: She has a tape damage, is closed after 35 years and now needs medical treatment –: It's getting neat, this little woman – but you obviously don't have them in your "the little people's concept" – through the self-retaining in health insurance. What else does the pact between ÖVP and FPÖ say? – This woman – she is 51 years old – has to wait until she receives a pension. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Saving for the health insurance companies!]] This will not be very high anyway, because she has not received much for her raking, but ÖVP and FPÖ require not only that this woman, who is 51 years old now, waits until 55, but that she – in addition to having to wait all these years without any big money – is also punished with a discount when it is so far, at 56.5 years when she can claim an early retirement pension. [[Abg. Böhacker: Why did she get so little?]] Now, of course, you can say: This woman can work! She's supposed to go to work! – Yes, do you not believe that this woman is trying to do so and that she has just been put into this situation, which is now in the labour market? But you, ladies and gentlemen, with what you have planned in the labour market policy – such a thing as active employment policy does not come to your mind at all – this woman does not provide the means for her to actually get a job. But, in the pact, these social benefits are of partly very high quality and guarantee social security. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. – You allow this cynicism, and I have demonstrated it to you in the example of this woman. What else does the Pact conceal – but not only the Pact, but also the past social policy of ÖVP and SPÖ? – There is, in both pacts, a reduction not only in active labour market policy. This woman has no chance at all of getting any employment through active labour market policies because she is from outside statistics. There are no more statistics! This is nowhere in relation to any possibility of getting back into employment! But, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, you give her a chance: The chance is the company household! This is propagated as the new perspective for women! This is supposed to operate the "company household" – and obviously of the 13 000 s of her husband work out so much that she can still live on it! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have no idea what it's all about!]] I don't know where your idea of the "company household" is to carry this money. – It is cynicism. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The second chance that you give her in the event that the money should no longer be enough – because 13 000 S is not much – is to apply for social assistance. There is a programme of the ÖVP and FPÖ: This woman would then have to do non-profit work, compulsory work – because she is one that "does not want to work" – with a small supplement. Forced labour, ladies and gentlemen, is a forced work programme which, in turn, would punish women even more than men, because their previous income – and the performance depends on, Mr. Khol, you obviously did not consider that when you propagated this concept – is also crucial for the remuneration of this concept of compulsory or forced work. Then there is something else, ladies and gentlemen, which is propagated in your concepts that you have developed over the past few weeks and months – not only in the Government Declaration –: the opportunity to offer us liberals, for example, in Carinthia. This possibility means: Poverty needs to be combated in the future by means of free food or almost donated food for the poor. What else ends up in the waste container is to be spent on the poor. – This is a proposal from the liberals in Carinthia. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! When poor business...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13128	Deputies! Come on. Please, to your final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13144	... and poor-eating is what you think about social policy, which is necessary today, if that is the result of your considerations, then I fear for the future in this country. Perhaps we will also really end up with the poor-houses and poor-schools that come out as a result of your distribution policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13176	Mr Martin Bartenstein spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13200	Mr President. My colleagues on the government bank! High house! Mrs Hostasch, from my point of view, you have made three important comments in your statement of request: On the one hand, Mrs Hostasch, you have expressed your understanding in the case that the recently appointed Minister of Social Affairs Sickl answers the questions in writing at least in part. Unfortunately, your clubman and also colleague Oillingers of the Greens have not brought up such an understanding of God. Secondly, you have said, Mrs Hostasch, that you have found a lot of knowledge in our government programme, as that of the People's Party and the Freeman. That is right, I know that I have negotiated and negotiated with you, among other things, the relevant part in the field of work and social affairs. Especially you, Mrs Hostasch, know as well as I do that we have not conducted sham negotiations, but have achieved a good outcome of the negotiations – a good outcome of the negotiations, which is found in very wide areas even now in this government programme between the Free and People's Party. They also say to third parties, Mrs Hostasch, that the government programme is not signed. That is the right thing to do: This government programme was negotiated on a fixed basis. It was not signed by one side, namely your respectable side of one of your co-negotiators, for well-known reasons – I don't want to explain it any more. However, I believe that it is important for today's debate and for other debates that no one can stop social democracy, which is now in the opposition, to implement this government programme together with us, even if it is about positions you yourself have taken. Only: In the interests of political credibility, we will already allow Mrs Hostasch and my esteemed colleagues from the Socialist opposition to remind you that this has been your own positions until recently. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] It was out of dispute between us and is now beyond dispute that no one should be taken away in the pension area, but that the increase in the federal grant to the pensions should be reduced by 15 billion schilling in the next four years. The Minister of Finance's emotion, apart from Edlinger's service, can go up as she wants: There is no way past the fact that it was essentially his proposal to increase the retirement age for early pensioners by two years, ladies and gentlemen, and not as we did by 18 months. [[Abg. Wicker: And the deposits?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But there were no shots!]] [[Call:There are also supplements]] And this is the most absurd thing I have heard today, Mrs Reitsamer: It's a "crime of trust protection"! ==References====External links== January of next year, this difficult way of increasing by six months in one step; and by comparison, you call it "crime of trust protection" when we start to increase by two months each in October of this year! [[Abg. Ritsmer: But no shots!]] [[Abg. More nice: And more flashes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "attacks", don't hits!]] That's what you're telling someone! I don't understand. The citizens don't understand this either – I think not even you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the question of self retention: Mrs Sickl has said very clearly and clearly that this is a cannibal provision, an authorisation for health insurance companies in that country. It is about the fact that the health insurance companies have written almost 3 billion schillings of deficit in the last year – so far this can be covered by reserves, as I hear; but this is no longer feasible per futuro – and that the German Chancellor climate has already called on health insurance to make the necessary thing in the context of their self-management to save. Further suggestions and suggestions on this subject can be found in the Government Agreement and also the possibility of introducing self-holds for visits to established doctors and, of course, in ambulances up to 20 percent. What does the Social Democratic Chief Officer and Obmann of the OÖ Landeskrankenkasse Oberchristl say – we all know; he is also a works councilman of VA-Stahl Linz – today for this? – Although he criticises this empowerment, at the same time he says that one is still forced to introduce this restraint. – No, Mr Oberchrist, no, dear health insurance companies, no one is forced! If you make these savings elsewhere, it's wonderful. No one will be happier about it than this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oberchrist says something very interesting, ladies and gentlemen, and this should not be withheld from you, because we clearly formulate... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Mr. Ollinger! I would like to comment on your comments. Perhaps you can explain to us how you come to the 30 billion schilling and the forced labour. But don't worry, I'm still dealing with you. Wait a second, be patient! At the same time, however, Mr Oberchrist also says – what we exclude, because we do not want to be self-contained in hospitals –: The OÖ Landeskrankenkasse already has this – for free co-insurers. For free co-insurers, there is this self retention in Upper Austria already. Do you know how much that makes up a year? – 200 million schilling. No cardboard stem either. In Upper Austria, there is already this with your Lord Oberchrist. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Listen to the recipes that Oberchrist has to offer as an alternative to saving – this is a social democratic principle as we know it, and a way that we do not want to go –: Open the maximum basis of assessment. The service providers should pay higher contributions – is nothing but a form of increase in contributions. Or: Commitment of revenue from taxes on alcohol and nicotine. – So: Let's give the health insurance companies more money, and that's what it's all about! - That can't be our way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is Karl Marx, this way!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the keyword "Bonus-Malus-Regelung": Mrs. Hostasch and I know – the House knows that too – that with 1. January this year a bonus-malus rule... – Mr. Oillinger! [[Calls and calls between ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Your own group is always talking!]] Unlike Mrs. Sickl, I'm in the house too long than you could somehow irritate me with intermediate calls, you're at most motivating me with that. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] ==References== January of this year we have a bonus malus rule: plus 2 percent/minus 2 percent. It is true that we are going a little further here and, for example, for someone who goes three years in advance in early retirement, we are in the future planning a malus of 9 percent – instead of, applicable law, 6 percent. That is right, but we need this as a supplement and as an incentive to stay in employment longer. However, I can tell you that we have also set ourselves the goal of providing accompanying provisions in our government programme – we also want to implement it in practice – in order to enable older people to be employed in order to protect them from what the employers can do – certainly not across the board, but again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the big difference: Employers cannot then retire if the legal possibility is not given and if the statutory retirement age is higher. I don't want to go so far as to say that teeth have been pulled here, but I say: For example, we have planned a looping scheme, and we have reduced the pension contribution for public servants from 0.95 percent – which was made up of the Social Democrats – to 0.8 percent. Similarly, the important wording is that working people who became very early in working – at the age of 15, 16 years – can continue to do without 45 years of contribution, go into retirement without Malus and also immediately fall out of any arrangements that would comply with retirement rules. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – No, of course this is also true in the direction of women. In fact, it brings women to the extent that those child training periods, which are paid only as insurance periods today, are paid as contribution periods in this case. So it will be much easier for a woman to come to 45 years of contributions in the future. You know that, but I'll tell you again. [[Abg. Silhavy: How many times will contribution times be?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One last: I do not understand the following point at all – and that is what I am saying in Mr Ollinger's speech: 30 billion schilling redistributed from workers to employers. – These measures in the pension sector are all of them to the same extent – this is not questionable. This concerns traders, other entrepreneurs, farmers and doctors to the same extent as workers insured under the ASVG. Be calm! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] Even in the two major insurance companies of the self-employed, there is an addition, which means that both insurance areas have 250 million schilling each – and that is not enough – to limit the increase in the federal grant to the pensions. [[Abg. Rider: But far too little to be able to capture that...!]] What do you say, Mrs. Reitsamer? "Too little"? – These exact amounts were also agreed between SPÖ and ÖVP! Please, check with Mrs. Hostasch. Let's stay on the floor of the truth, and let's not forget what happened two weeks ago!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13415	The next speaker is Mrs Heidrun Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13439	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, I am very surprised by your behavior. They obviously confused Parliament with a party event of the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or you are quite aware of this House with your answer to the question Your concept of democracy and disdain? Not us, Mrs. Federal Minister, are afraid. People in our country, in our homeland, are afraid of the new policy as you announce it. The new thing about this policy is that it is at the expense of hardworking men and women in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Men and women who work hard, who are already exposed to the conditions of the economy and are now even more bound to the economy, come to us. For example, a salesman said: I am 55 years old in November and have 35 years of contribution. When can I go to retirement, and how much pension will I get? What will change, what will get worse? – Ms. Minister! [[Abg. Steibl: I hope you have given us a real information!]] We want to be able to give people answers to such questions, but because of your government paper we cannot. It's too unclear, it's too imprecise. The man from the Bärental... – Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Dr. Sickl speaks to the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] May I ask you at least to give me the appropriate attention! – Thank you very much for that. It would be nice if you would at least listen to us if you didn't answer the questions before, so that the disregard will be limited. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The man from the Bear valley says: With 45 years of insurance, man – capitalized – can go into retirement, without deductions. In your government agreement... – Mrs Steibl, I would not speak in your place until I have read it through. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I did this and recommend that you do it, too, so that you know what's in the paper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Back to this man with the 45 years of contributions or insurance – in the government agreement there is nothing of 45 years of insurance, but a little of 45 years of contributions. But if the poor man was now unemployed, with the federal army or there were different times when he had replacement periods and not contributions, then he did not have 45 years of contributions. He has 45 years of insurance, but not 45 years of contributions. What about this man? Does he have to buy discounts? Can't he retire at the age of 60? – This man, too, comes to us with his concerns and fears, for he actually has a life-planning and directed towards them. What about the woman? – I always hear so "Wonderful" that women can also retire with 45 years of insurance without deductions – with 60! You forget that women currently can retire at 55! They say "Wonderful" that it will be better for women because child rearing times will be pensionable. How many? How many months? How much time will pension be? – Your paper contains something of 18 months. What about the rest of the 18 months? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] These are our questions which we have addressed to you very specifically, Mrs Federal Minister! But you didn't answer a single question about it. People will continue to have fears, people will continue to fear this policy, and we will not be able to give them any answers because you have denied this House the answers to these questions! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A brief comment on fairness to a new member of the government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] Ms. Federal Minister, a signatory to this government program, your party leader, said in the press hour that you are an expert. He's protected you. He has protected you from the "evil" journalist, who thinks only negatively, and has expressed his conviction that you are the expert on these issues. [[Federal Minister Dr. Sickl speaks to the Abg. Dr. Bruckmann.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Minister! You don't do that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! Um To prove your expertise, you would have had to answer at least some – some; I admit, it was a variety – of these questions, namely the essential questions that concern people in this country, scare them. This could have helped you to scare people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein! You're not new to the government – he's not in the hall right now, but maybe you can do it to him. He obviously feels like a social minister now, not without reason, I would say. If you see how the competences are shifted, that the safeguarding of workers' interests, of workers' health interests at once are to be subordinated to the economy, then you know where this leads anyway. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] It's the terrifying idea! The working people in this country can already be sorry to you today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein has forgotten something: It was not least this point, namely the question of pensions and the protection of trust in the future, which has led to the fact that this Convention has not been signed. And in a rule of law still applies: What has not yet been signed is not a contract! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] You signed this paper we are discussing today. They have the responsibility to do so and they have the right to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The SPÖ presidency voted unanimously!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Yeah, that's how you see it. So deal with the concerns and fears of the people! People are not important to you! You're just a little bit in power, it's about pure power policy. It's about you yourself and not about the people in this country. You prove this with such calls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Self retention – the next topic. We have created a very great family policy performance, namely the contribution-free co-insurance in health insurance. It has never been discussed whether contributions from the family compensation fund should not actually be transferred to health insurance, also in the sense of the transparency of Mr Rürup. We have not discussed this at all, and you have obviously not even thought of it, because you want to give the money to a larger group, without maximum limits, so that everyone – including those who earn enough – will get a little more money. We need a little pocket money – pouring cannon principle! But under the title "Treffsicherheit", you pull the money out of your pocket to the working people, the working men and women. You have no problem with the reliability of the meeting, because in this case you will meet You are not your clients, but the majority of people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For retention: There are also important questions in this context. One hears of this man who signed the paper but does not sit here in the house – which is why he does not need to speak and answer –: This does not apply to hospitals. But Minister Bartenstein says: for ambulances already. What's going on now? Or the ambulances no longer belong to the hospitals, have we already distributed them? – I do not know that, but I may not know your paper in every detail. You may still have some bad surprises ready for us. Mrs. Minister, you say you will put more emphasis on precautionary matters. However, Minister Bartenstein, in his former role as a family minister, has managed to abolish the mother-child pass bonus, the birth grant, the little money you have received for making certain investigations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] He has replaced it with a bad, unbearable arrangement! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now you want to introduce self-retain, which may not even make people go to the doctor again, because they get so expensive and they have to turn every schilling around several times before they spend it. You're probably not going to deal with this anymore – I come to this assumption when I see which people are sitting in your ranks; there's only a few of those who will have this problem. That's what you're trying to do. Pre-care medicine?- Oh, my God! How do you want to do this, I ask you. My fear – that I must say – is: If one becomes black in this policy, one will experience its blue wonders if one wants to go on a social and well-supported network in Austria, it wants to get how we have handed it over to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13652	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Herbert Haupt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13708	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Mr Edlinger, as you have already made this call, I would like to say to you: When I present your "wurst speech" from the morning, I feel more and more strongly that the Social Chapter is actually about sausages, but not about those that your dog has eaten, but about those you have corrupted the Austrians in this country in the 30 years of your politics. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Dear Mr. Edlinger, Minister of Justice! You should know very well that you were not able – you with your government team; [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Did you not listen to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic?]] Today, you stand here as a substitute for the absent Mr. Alt-Bundeskanzler climate, which has refused to come, on the test stage – to secure pensions in the long term with the 1997 pension reform. They wrote a letter to the pensioners for better knowledge, and after the third. In October 1999, what the Austrians expect: no solidarity between the generations, no solidarity between the individual professional groups, no solidarity between the different groups. – Mr Edlinger, this Federal Government will make a decisive change! We will ensure solidarity. We will ensure better conditions for all women. We will take care – no matter if you consider it to be a karenz money, a child's allowance or a partial payment of our children's check at the time – that all women with a child will receive at least two years of full 6 250 S, and those with partners will be added for another year! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] They will see that the abolition of restrictions – women have so far not been able to participate in any training, which has not allowed them to remain on the labour market – will significantly facilitate women's re-entry into working life. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire! You have read it: In the last five years, they have persistently refused to comply with the demands of the liberals and to take appropriate measures within the framework of the AMS for women over 40 years and for older workers, so that they would have really improved. That is what we have now written into this government programme. And you are invited, if you think that discrimination against older workers in the world of work in Austria can no longer continue, to sign and decide on the constitutional security provided by this government as a basis for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe there has been a lot of injustices in the social system in the past too. In the SPÖ paper, in the Edellinger-Clima paper, lapidar for older workers: Compact for older workers. In our paper, at least point 6 states: As part of the pension scheme, a package of measures for older workers will be drawn up, in cooperation with countries, municipalities, social partners, AMS and social security bodies, which will be available at the latest on 1 January. In October 2000 the aim of increasing the employment opportunities of older workers was to enter into force. Labour protection provisions for workers who are just before retirement should be implemented, transitional arrangements should be made for those affected, social plans should be provided for by the social partners. We have therefore made sure that, as the trade union rightly requested, if the increase in the retirement age becomes effective, accompanying measures will also be effective in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Silhavy, first of all, You ask the people with numbers that are not in the paper of this government, and then you ask here to answer questions. [[Abg. Silhavy: With what numbers, colleague chief?]] – I think that, Mrs Silhavy, I am simply and simply unsanitary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Which numbers?]] I think it's simple and simply unscrupulous. If you were worth something about the social peace and the life planning of the employees in Austria, you would not try to insure people with wrong figures. [[Abg. Silhavy: With what numbers, colleague chief?]] I can recall, for example, all the figures that have come over the screen in connection with health insurance and have gone beyond the yawns of the union and the Chambers of Labour today, but also in recent days as broadcasts. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do not stand outside and say something that is not true! With what numbers? What numbers did I operate out there with?]] The fact that your clubman postulated up to 20 000 s of self retention on television has not been disputed today, Mr Kostelka. I think you have to know, at least since this debate and the statements made by Mr Bartenstein and Mrs. Sickl, that you are wrong and that after this paper, we are very likely to provide for the socially weak – and these are still those who have low incomes – for chronically ill, for co-insured children, so that they are not asked to cash out in the form mentioned in connection with health insurance. [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Hoof! If you stand out there and say something, answer the question!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Which numbers?]] Mrs Silhavy, take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Which numbers?]] I would like to add something else because the question was how the government surrender was: You, Mrs Hostasch, have – I did not expect otherwise from you – properly handed over your ministry; I would also like to say this here, because I do not blame myself for not taking into account positive aspects that speak for you in such a debate. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13869	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e13890	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today, I believe, we have heard a very forward-looking government statement by our Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. However, the Social Democrats are interrupting the debate on this ambitious programme with a urgent request. But now the question would be allowed: What is so urgent about this question that we need to discuss it today, Mrs Silhavy? What's so urgent? [[Call the SPÖ: Everything!]] What happens in the next few days? What happens in the next few hours? I would like to discuss an APA issue with you today, even in view of the fact that we came to the House today. In this it is said – I quote –: In the early afternoon several hundred demonstrators stormed the Social Ministry. They occupied the offices in the building at the Stubenring, which you converted to the "Resistance Ministry", and put on transparency and threw files out of the window. - Quote. Ms. Sickl has declared that, I believe, no files have been destroyed. But today's Federal Minister would have done more easily to answer your extensive questions if the Ministry could have been handed over in order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: I don't think so, because this is about a paper from the FPÖ and ÖVP!]] Dear Mrs Hostasch! In the matter of your urgent request, it says: "massive deterioration for workers, pensioners and socially weak due to the FPÖVP tax package". – I say to you, however: It's not about deterioration. What we are concerned with is ensuring this social system for the next generation. What we are talking about is creating a powerful and just social system that protects and promotes the disadvantaged and the needy, but that also exposes the abuse of social institutions and services as unsocial and unolidarian, for we are guarding against this abuse. We are in favour of a new social contract, ladies and gentlemen, which gives the old security but also opens up the young prospects for their future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The need for changes and adaptations to changing social conditions is not only known to Mr. Edlinger – that is the man with the dog and the sausage; he was quoted earlier – but you know that too, highly appreciated Mrs. Hostasch. You know this is necessary. But it may be that it hurts that this package is more moderate than the one you have proposed and proposed. [[Abg. Silhavy: Moderate for the economy, I believe you are speaking!]] It may be that it hurts you that this can go over the stage without adding up – that hurts; I know you're not right. The Federal Minister has made it clear to you. And it may be that She hurts that this package is more creative and that you are also ready to go new ways. It may also hurt you, Mrs Silhavy, in particular, that this package contains improvements for the women you did not want to admit to them. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] I am thinking about the contribution times for mothers – they were not ready for this improvement. We will implement this in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another thing: Mrs Silhavy, if you once again ask a lady – I am now referring to your example with the 55-year-old lady – when she is allowed to retire, now under the amended government constellation, please say – I can give this answer to you: [[Abg. Swimmling: With 75 likely!]] Much earlier than if the Social Democrats were in the government! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] For you, Mrs Hostasch, I very much appreciate this, you know, cold-sneaking policy, and that hurts me. But you know that's not right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hostish.]] We are concerned about the concern for the people of this country, especially those who most need the solidarity of the Community. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The socialist representatives in the local health phone have been carrying out a campaign of misinformation for days in connection with the planned possibility of self retention. I don't want to go closer to that now, but – You know, the Minister made it clear –: Self retention exists in many systems. There are self-contained farmers, there are self-contained officials, there are self-contained farmers, there are self-contained railways. – Where is your solidarity among all insured persons? You know that there are self-retainers in the ASVG insurance company. So what is the excitement that is now so massive through all the federal states? [[Call the SPÖ: You haven't listened again!]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: May we also speak! They call this self retention "punishment tax". I really appeal to you: Stop it! Let's stop scaring people. Anxiety has always been a poor companion, especially in the social security system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You know that, Mrs Silhavy. Let's stop being scared! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We – I would like to reject this once again with all the emphasis – do not pursue a cold social policy. The social policy of this Federal Government is socially balanced and future-oriented, and it is, above all, the following: It is borne by the will of the partner to be implemented – this is an essential point – and it will be successful. And we're very proud of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14037	The next speaker is at the speaker's desk before he was called, but it is indeed Mr. Dr. Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14058	Mr President, the Greens are fast. – Ms Minister! Minister! I would like to say the following: I do not want to continue looking at children's drawings and talking about dogs and crack sausages, but I would like to turn to a more serious subject, namely the government statement. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: No, it's still the urgent ones!]] I do not hide myself from saying that everything in the chapter on health and social affairs concerning me is a disaster, but you have praised yourself, therefore I would like to... – Mr Kukacka, I once wrote a guest comment about you, and this one had something to do with the light and the sheffel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] I would therefore ask you not to continue to provoke me. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] The government programme says: no rationing of benefits, and no rationing of benefits according to the criteria age, gender, religion. And then what does that say? – "And so on." I'd like to tell you something about this "and so on." I tell you that income, education, housing, job security, job satisfaction and social recognition have more impact on disease and death than all the technical advances of medicine have made in the last 40, 50 years. These are clear, scientifically proven facts. In your social programme I find very little about it. Because it is not the absolute level of income that determines whether a person suffers early, frequent or late, but the extent of the differences in income. It is not too high to say that the extent of income differences is not reduced by your program. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Solidarity with the poor, sick and dying is partly reduced to headlines and vague standing sets here – I say again. Some of the headings – and I criticise this massively – are applicable law. Make sure that applicable law is implemented! I too know the laws of the market. You can believe me, partly... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – She doesn’t hear it, but today I win the impression: It doesn't matter if someone's sitting here or not. They don't hear it when they're here because they don't want to understand. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The laws of the market allow rich persons to be flown from Israel for Christmas strawberries. Okay, you can't do anything about it. But I tell you, if those who can afford holiday in the South Sea and strawberries for Christmas from Israel are those classes of society that can afford to die better and also a better medicine, then for me the fun of the free market ceases. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I also tell you – because you say there is no rationalization –: There's this rationalization. I can list it to you, just not enough time to do that. Ration is done by distinguishing between somatic and psychologically ill. You only need to read through the negotiations on psychotherapy on a health certificate. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Tell the opposition partner!]] I'm not a veterinary doctor; maybe I'm saying something wrong. A cow or another animal may have an arrhythmia, but partner conflicts, severe depressions, mental suffering are human diseases. I think it's scandalous that it's not paid for what this sick person owes! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] If you want to talk instead of me, get out of here! [[Abg. May. Main:...to you, my colleague!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But I don't give up my time for calls that are hardly understandable. [[New calls to the liberals and the Greens.]] I'll tell you: In the case of medical treatment, the private share in the financing or increase in the private share is more than the public costs have increased. That is all to say clearly, schmafu, this infinancing! Austria is in the middle of Europe, with regard to the share of health costs in gross domestic product, and, as has been said, the private share of the benefits is 60 percent. Rescue for the disabled, for spastic disabled children after birth dreams – they can't afford physiotherapy anymore, because the parents say: I don't pay for this self-preservation anymore, I can't pay it anymore. - That's the truth. [[Complementary of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I have something against making health policy, life and death a lottery game in the kind of "6 out of 45". There are scientific publications that show that people with tumor diseases have more chances when they come out of the top three of their incomes. Then please tell me what this has to do with the same, fair and just access to resources. Explain this to me! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. You might just read the "tat in the silver lake", that might be already. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Please, look: You don't have to spread your intelligence here with full force, especially audience, please! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] On federalism and quality control: I tell you, federalism partly means that good federal laws adopted by you on the way down to the countries are levelled to a standard that has little to do with quality. I was in the Freistadt Investigation Committee and could tell you a lot about what federalism means. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, Mrs. Landesratin Zanon, says that federalism means that a law on private fees for doctors that, according to the Federal Chancellor's Office, is clearly unconstitutional. We've rehearsed: Please, you can't. - What's going on? - If you're upset for a long time, you'll get an even worse one. – This too is social and social attitude. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You can't pass a law, Mr. Deputies!]] Please? – It is decided to vote with the votes of the ÖVP, the state government, yes, sure! Partly ill – what does partial illness mean? – An example: I have had a tumor patient who has faced death – I do not make cheap polemics and schmafu – who has got three calls to go to work. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... no doctor!]] Please? - Only today. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Only today!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] I'll wait for you to do it. Maybe they won't end up in the hospital at all. [[Calls and calls from SPÖ and the Freeman.]] At a large congress of physicians, sociologists and ecologists... Yes, excuse me. [[Further calls.]] – At a large congress of sociologists and medical economists, once the sentence fell: Before we had it easy, the patient was either healthy or dead after two weeks, and today everything has become so difficult because the patients after two weeks – imagine that! – neither healthy nor dead. [[Abg. Grossruck: Today 14 days!]] So what kind of comments have been made? – Defect healing is not good for the economy. What are defects? Consider: No sugar disease can be cured, no coronary heart disease can be cured. And then you say, There's no two-class medicine. [[Abg. Aumayr: Who is responsible for their existence?]] I'll tell you: The inequality in sickness and death is partly the result of neoliberal and neosocial economic policies – I have told you what influence poverty has. When I see that labour inspectorates are landing in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that partyity is taking place in patient representations, that a secretary of an AUVA general director in a hospital is patient representatives, that a chamber director of the medical board is patient representatives in a hospital, then I have to say: There's something lazy. You still have enough to do. Business doctors and national anity directors are very likely to be selected after that whether they are comfortable or not. I've been with some of them, I'm not getting well. The last sentence – and I hope it won't get that far again! –: In May 1935, ministries and competences were also postponed. It was Seyss-Inquart, who set up a Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14324	Mrs. Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14345	Mr President. My colleagues at the ministerial bank! High house! It is my concern to make a brief statement to me for the truth's sake. It was very kind of Mr Feurstein to defend me and to think that I was not properly received in the ministry. I have to say this correctly, he has not been able to know it; there have also been extraordinary conditions on Friday because of the occupation of the ministry. But it is very likely that there has been a telephone contact with Mrs Minister, and the ministry has received me very well and very properly. There is very good cooperation, and that is very important to me. Especially in this area, politics together with the apparatus must simply create a very good climate so that we can come to good solutions together. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14376	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14397	Mr President. WOMEN AND MEN Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Some people in this house are worried about the sound that's going on here. You are probably concerned about how clearly the words of the opposition, the positions of the opposition are represented here. If the Deputy Chancellor accused the opposition of not reading the government programme exactly enough, I have to tell her here: Just because we read it, we find so clear words. Words are the real, the first and the most important ambassadors, and it is worth listening to some of the words in this government program. Even in today's government statement – we have listened carefully – sentences can be found that give rise to legitimate unrest and concern. For additional confusion, the head of state of Carinthia travels through the world and once again explains this, depending on the situation, for example in the "press hour" on the question of self retention: We've seen that this isn't going to happen in the hospitals. The Minister said today: Of course, the ambulances will also be affected by this restraint. Are now hospitals in the hospital, or do they not belong to it?, I wonder. If "Rerule Austria" means redefining the balance between citizens and the state – as the Vice-Cancellor expressed it – or if it is true to find an improved division of tasks between the state and private, then I must say: It scares me of your government program. I ask myself the question: Better for who should it be? Mrs. Sickl! What is planned in your ministry alone raises this question: For whom? – That will be a rhetorical question if I study the program. It will certainly not be better for humans. Your inadequate or rather non-existent answer to the question confirms me. At least a few questions you might have had to answer! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Key data will be known to you as an expert after five days. Mrs. Minister! In your department, 125 billion schilling is spent in the health sector. Some answer must be expected from the High House when it comes to this sum. You know that Austria has one of the best health systems, also according to an OECD study. You know exactly what solidarity it is. These include the excellent family benefits. You know that the contribution-free co-insurance of members is a great achievement of this programme, this health system in Austria, which does not differ according to age, gender or social situation, and that at a low contribution rate with the highest efficiency in implementation. [[Abg. Donabauer: That does not question anyone, Mrs Colleague! That doesn't question anyone!]] Their read stands here in answer to the questions asked suggest that there is a risk of de-olidarisation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only read from this programme as far as Austria's health system is concerned that there will be a massive attack on small people's wallets. It does not help if Klubobmann Westenthaler has repeated his commitment to politics for the little people here today. I wonder if the socially weak are so unimportant to you that you pull the money out of your pocket to let others do it. [[Abg. Fischl: We like to give you the answer!]] I expect you, Mrs. Minister, to make precise statements here. Should performance be rationed to the sick now? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: What do you mean by ration?]] – You know that every person today has the same right to benefits every age. Ration means that benefits are classified that a 70-year-old patient may at some point not have the right to be operated on because he suffers from grey star. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why? How do you get such a thing?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Where does the SPÖ see that?]] Or does this possibly mean that sometime older people will no longer be allowed hip operations? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: There isn't even that in Africa!]] Take the fear of the two-class medicine! – Define from the keyword what "participation" is for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Under the heading "Increasing quality of life" the government programme states: Self-medication is to be forced, control possibilities are to be checked by prescription fees. What does that mean in the clear text? – They claim that health insurance can determine regionally which self-retaining rate they want to collect. How do you explain to a construction worker who comes from Vienna, who once works in Carinthia, once in Tyrol, and who may live in Burgenland, that he has to pay a different amount of money in every country? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Vienna should save more!]] Which means in your program: Hospital transports only more according to medical needs – who notices them? What does a dialysis patient do? Is he going to the hospital by taxi? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why should the surpluses of the Salzburg Regional Health Fund...?]] What does a disabled pensioner do? How'd she get there? Is that freedom in your eyes instead of galvanizing, taking care of the transport of sick people and then having to pay for it itself? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is that the freedom you're talking about? Is this your commitment to the self-responsibility that the Federal Chancellor has today taken into account in the Government Declaration? Mrs. Federal Minister! Please explain here what measures you will take in the future! Tell them what you are planning, and then explain these measures to the little people! Explain how you want to ensure that the health system remains solid in Austria! As far as I can see so far, the courage has failed to solve the real health problems without socially unfair burden on patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14554	The next speaker is Mr Fischl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I have to say it once: I thank the dear God that I can experience this day here in the High House, where at last a government is praised, which does not say the same from generation to generation, and then makes something completely different. [[Abg. May. Kogler: God protect Austria!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I would also like to thank Mrs Hostasch for bringing this urgent matter in today. One reads two things out of these urgent things: one the character they feel, and the other the little wisdom they make up. When I speak of less wisdom, I mean: How can we stand here for the speaker's seat, make a urgent request, and show up problems that we have actually caused ourselves?- Oh, my God! In addition, how can a socialist finance minister come here and say: It is all wonderful!, for example, while one has to note that the federal share of social expenditure, the federal grant, has increased in just ten years, in not even ten years, in nine years, from 1989 to 1999 from 130 to 215 billion?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Silhavy: Have you listened...?]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] How can you, Mrs Hostasch – even if you are not here, but Mrs Silhavy is so weak, she will probably tell her – how can you, ladies and gentlemen, stand here unattended and speak of a sniper heap that we are setting up?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Very charming!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] Mrs Silhavy, I ask you to send your colleague Hostasch: We didn't put up a sniper pile. [[Abg. Gaugg: You left it to us!]] You put on a mess, and we've got to work on this mess. There's a big difference. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This heap of rubble can be subordinated by examples. [[Abg. Gradwelt:... Insurance increase...!]] Mr Van der Obersteiermark. — (NL) (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the You can talk calmly, otherwise I don't understand you. You're talking so intellectually. [[Abg. Gradwelt: A success story...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The heap of rubble that reveals itself to us is easy to understand two savings packages, significant cuts in the pension system during your reign, significant real income losses during your government activity, falling national income – only in two years about 3.8 percent, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Silhavy:... gold scale, compared to the...!]] The additional wage costs in Austria are among the highest in Europe today. I do not need to explain to you the taxes on GDP; we have often discussed them enough. Our pension system, which you so praise here, which you call so unique, ladies and gentlemen, would certainly not be possible in ten to 15 years if it were to go as further as you would have thought. I am not alone in saying that, for example, I am taking Mr Rürup as an example, who also worked as an expert for you. All you're doing here today is white hypocrisy for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14719	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14735	All you do here and today is white deception for me. They are trying, with aggression in their word, to deceive anyone who is actually responsible for this situation in our country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] If someone who has caused the rubble comes here and acts as if the government declaration were, so to speak, the image of a shredded pile, then I'm too far. I am grateful to the ORF that this debate has been broadcast live today, because the ORF has helped to show how you have demasked yourself here in the House, how you have taken your mask down a piece by presenting yourself as a savior of our social system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about two-class medicine. [[Abg. Silhavy: You're talking about it!]] Do you know it was you who caused the two-class medicine? Do you know it was you? In front of me, a doctor spoke, Mr. Dozent Grünewald, who has been criticised in this context and obviously has not taken into account that he criticises something you have done. I can only fully support Mr Green Forest's report. Correct: We have a two-class medicine, based on the fact that you have not been able to observe the health care as a whole. At the expense of government assets, at the expense of public debt, which – and I would also like to say this to Mr Edlinger – has grown from 800 billion to about 1.6 trillion schilling within ten years, social dumping. It is time for social romance to end that realism returns for the benefit of the population of Austria. Because if we had continued this way, it would have been a lot worse for us in a few years. I can promise you for my group, for this new government: We're going to put all the strength we can on the side of this mess that you left behind as soon as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14810	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14832	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The term "anxiety" was used very often today. What I'm afraid of is that you just don't want to understand that time has become another. And always if you lack arguments, grab They return to the fifties, forty or thirty years – no matter where. Finally, take a look forward! It is about making policy for tomorrow! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, If you have prophetic ally today and believe that the whole country in the social field will be lost, I will tell you one thing: Build on us! We from the People's Party will ensure that there is a good, a very good, a balanced social policy tomorrow too! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I have absolute understanding of the urgent request, absolutely, only one thing I can say: If the introduction here states that this Austrian social and health system has been set up under social democratic leadership, I must say: You have a great deal of right, but forget about it. You do not ask me to talk to the social partners, because the social partners have come here in an excellent way and are indeed not only socially democratically-led institutions. Let us also have a different share in what we can show and represent as a success here today! That can be said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you, Mrs Mag. Plank, believe that in the future a 70-year-old must be afraid to stop being treated in a hospital, then I recommend you, Mrs Magister, to drive to England where Tony Blair makes politics: There will be since 60. Year of life benefits of this kind no longer paid. There you can go, there's the situation. You need to talk about that when They want to discuss social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Now to the question. I do not want to thank you, Mrs Hostasch, as a former Federal Minister for the good cooperation. We have developed a lot further in the agricultural sector and in many other areas. I am concerned, however, if we find something in this urgent question today which, as I believe, is not suitable for social policy, namely group thinking. We need solidarity here, and I am grateful to you, Mr Feurstein, for talking about it today. If it says here that the farmers have a self-financing rate of only 21 percent, I prove to you that we actually have one in the amount of 49.4 percent. And if you don't believe that, look at the Green Report, it's in there. You are still sitting in the § 7 Commission and have decided to do so. That's the truth, but not the 21 percent you want to put your eyes on us. We won't let that happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Secondly, If you criticise the self-preservation here today, I can tell you, Mr Schwemmlein: There is no system without restraint. In the healing and healing area have him all, the BVA requires a self-holding of 20 percent in medical assistance, the ASVG – yours! – has provided for a health certificate fee and a right of retention for the family. That's your performance! You're boasting of your policy here, please! That's your performance! Please, be honest, so it is: There is the self retention in every system that commercial economy has it, the farmers have it. We do not demand more than a solution to the questions to come. Since the formula climate does not occur – he has said the health insurance must be rehabilitated, but there should be no increase in contribution and no reduction in performance – you must correctly find a new way. And what did this government propose? – It has proposed – on all this will still be discussed – that social security bodies should and will be able to take action on their own responsibility within the framework of their self-management. It's not bad! We will still have a lot to discuss about this, because all of this needs to be thoroughly prepared and prepared. Today it has been spoken of several times by pension drama. I had the following case confirmed by the main association: A woman with 360 insurance months goes to pension at 55 years. And you'll be amazed: It already has a discount of 9 percent today. This is confirmed by the main association. And now you want to make us know that all of a sudden this country is just a pity? I ask you, let us seek two things: first of all, that we see in the future that this social system, which is really good, which we have built together, will continue to be given confidence, that the next generation will also be oriented towards it and will contribute to the generation agreement, and secondly, that we continue to maintain social security in this country and that we will find more confidence and respect for each other in a stormy discussion. This, I believe, is a good thing for the country, and this is what people expect from the politicians who are working here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14942	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Second word, remaining speaking time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e14963	High house! Sometimes – and that doesn’t actually concern the government statement, but so many things around me, I’m still talking about the urgent ones – one has the feeling and the strange impression that the messages that are represented here from the speaker’s desk are being addressed to you completely wrong. [[Abg. Aumayr: We are still with the urgent!]] For example, you, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Grünewald, pointed out in the final sentence of his speech – and this also concerns the urgent ones – that on 30 October, in the light of his speech. In May 1938, Mr Seyss-Inquart formed a new ministry with a decree by merger, actually demolition of existing ministries. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: 62 years ago!]] He has formed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Transport – this order is also important. It has already been my colleague Van der Bellen, ladies and gentlemen, point out that what Mr Bartenstein said about the "standard" today, namely that this regrouping also corresponds to the fact that the cliché of contrary interests of workers and entrepreneurs is obsolete, and that he is pleased that here, as it were, a local ministry is formed, in which the different interests merge into an entire interest, has not even caused a reaction to you. – Except for a reaction after my colleague Kurt Grünewald spoke. We have heard this – and I try to be careful, Mr Jung: Is it really true that you said to my colleague Grünewald that this was actually the beginning of the Nazi leadership – he did not do it that way, but that was recognizable in the context –: Then it can't have been so bad!Unknown term type: "%s".? Mr. Jung! We heard it like that. If that's what happened to you, I'll ask you to make this clear. If it's not that way, please explain. [[Abg. Aumayr: Learn history, he said! Such a fool!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] We heard that. I don't know if it's true, but every wrong movement in this direction from your side, ladies and gentlemen from the liberals, is not yours! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I come to a point that I have actually taken up. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, you can see that what you have incorporated into this coalition agreement is not a lot of specific freedom, but there are two of them. I mentioned one in my first speech: This is the concept of compulsory work, which Mr Khol also represents and also represents others. I do not want to go into this compulsory work now, but there is something similar in the Nazi context, and that is forced work. On the one hand, there is the statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Schüssel: The Federal Government will do so. But then there is a point in the coalition agreement, which relativizes this very clear and clear opinion of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel on forced labour – and that is your language, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals. That's what it's called "12. Reimbursement for forced workers, prisoners of war and displaced persons: "The Federal Government will seek appropriate solutions to all persons forced to work during the Second World War, the Austrian prisoners of war and the German-speaking population displaced in the wake of the Beneš decrees and AVNOJ provisions in Austria." I think that's incredible. I think that's incredible! In the context of a clear statement, which every federal government – no matter whom it is formed – needs to distance itself from national socialist crimes, from national socialist forced labour, it is relativized here and counter-compulsory Nazi forced labour with displaced persons. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong!]] It may already be that wrong has happened here, it is also true, but that has nothing to look for, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, in the context of Nazi forced labour. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Unfortunately, you still have a lot of work to do here, some unbridled dark, brown spots, which constantly and obviously cloud your eyes into the coalition agreement. That is why we expect an appropriate explanation from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15078	Mr Pumberger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. The remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is 7 minutes. Do you want the full 7 or do you want 4 minutes? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: 4!]] Four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15108	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us return to the real issue, Mr Oellinger, this is a urgent question by the former Minister for Social Affairs, Hostash. [[Abg. Oillinger: Also for an intermediate call from your side!]] Mrs Hostasch! I am very grateful to you, together with my group and probably also to the Group of the Austrian People's Party, for this urgent question, because this urgent question gives us the opportunity to counteract the wild rumors of defaming this reform programme. The media have got a wrong picture due to some incorrect reporting from your series. They have deliberately spoken of horrendous self-maintenance in the stationary area, self-maintaining in the amount of 20,000, 30,000 s in hip operations, and they have become afraid of them. You scared the population by saying: If this reform government starts to work, then we can no longer afford the hospital! It's bad, ladies and gentlemen! I'm a doctor, I know what fears are aroused in the population. There are many fears, but the fear of not getting the right care anymore, if you are sick, not being able to afford a hospital stay, often a vital operation – that is something very bad, Mrs. Federal Minister. I just didn't expect you to be leading here. [[Abg. Hostasch: For clarifications!]] You're talking about "punishment tax" here. [[New call of the abg. Hostish.]] You asked the question! In the Preamble there is talk of a "punishment tax". In the following questions, too, there is something about "punishment taxes". No one wants to punish the sick! We have a reform programme. We have all worked together for weeks, worked for it – shorter than SPÖ, which has failed anyway – and have set up a programme that will satisfy the Austrians in the future in the field of health and social policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Health policy has been given a high priority in this programme, as has never been the case in a socialist programme. The importance of health and social policy and, above all, of health policy has never been as great as in this reform programme. The title "Program for More Health" already says everything. If You are really trying to read the content objectively, ladies and gentlemen, in the opposition rages, then you will come to the point that we have really thought about enabling a proper health policy for our people in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] A second chapter on "social security", namely the reform of social security schemes in Austria, is very important. Ladies and gentlemen! There has never been such a chapter in a socialist-dominated programme, because the will to reform social security was never recognizable in your ranks at all – neither by the social ministers, your predecessors nor by you. I've ever received a call for order because I said you were a puppet of the main association. I claimed that and then I had to pay it with an order call. But I know – and I repeat – that the main association of social security schemes has always given the direction in social policy and that the respective ministers who were in office have understood all that the Sallmutters have looked forward to them. And that will no longer exist in the future! We will ensure that a social health policy and a social policy take place in the interests of citizens, in the sense of social security. Still for self-retaining. – I think I’ll still use the three minutes if no more speakers of the liberals have spoken so that the speaking time is exhausted. – I think it’s important to address the issue of self retention. Your predecessor, Social Minister Hums, has fought with teeth and claws that the social security of Austrian railways does not depart from self-retaining, their benefits are reduced, and the system – as with the Farmers' Insurance Fund – is adapted to the local health fund. He wanted to prevent this because the insured railers did not want the benefits to be reduced because they know that the railway health insurance scheme can provide a better range of services for the insured due to the self-retaining it collects. So the insured didn't want to. [[Abg. Edler: They also have higher contributions!]] Now, because this reform programme empowers social security schemes in the event that they do not manage to set up a self-retaining system with the reforms that we propose to them, which enables insured persons to receive a range of services that is close to that of railway and civil insurance and the insurance of the industrial economy, a range of services that the insured want, now yell Zeter and Mordio. Now, Mrs. former Minister of Social Affairs, you're talking about a burden of up to 11 billion schilling. And that's just not true! In drawing up this programme, we have made very specific considerations about who is to be exempted here. It is completely wrong – and this has already been said several times today – that hospital stays are affected by a renewed restraint. Socially in need and children are excluded! And what's very important: The pensioners don't pay a health certificate fee, then you have as a replacement for the health certificate fee – no, they don't pay, don't you know, former Federal Minister? – a contribution increase for pensioners of 0.25 percent was decided. Therefore, the health certificate fee for pensioners does not fall away, so this right for pensioners – should he be introduced at all – also falls away. So pensioners don't need to be afraid of this either. That's why I'm telling you: We have a great deal in this reform programme: from strengthening patient rights to reforming hospitals to more initiatives for health care, post-care and rehabilitation. Mrs. Federal Minister! You have the first task in the form of rehabilitation soon ahead of you. If you are in Lisbon, I would like you to be happy to be able to rehabilitate the disasterd reputation, by whomever it has been disasterd, in the European world.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15202	No further words are available. That concludes the debate on the urgent question. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15223	At the same time, I will resume the debate on the declaration of government. We continue in the speaker list. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Schlögl. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The spindlegger is still at the word, he has been interrupted by the urgent!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It seems that this was understood by the officials that the speech had ended, so now appears on the speaker list Mr Schlögl. But now we're not going to argue, I'm giving the floor to Dr. Spindelegger, but the officials still have to find out how much the rest of the speaking time is. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15259	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also announced this in my previous speech and can tell you, Mr President, I had 5 minutes of speaking time. [[Abg. Leikam: 8 minutes!]] Or 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15289	He spoke for 6 minutes – and please don't mix in! Mr Spindelegger, would you like to speak for another 14 minutes? What time should I set the clock for? Seven minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: 7 minutes, please!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15315	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to use my entire speaking time, but I would like to confront you with a new fact that is now emerging, which really shakes me. I heard yesterday from my colleague from the Socialist Group, the foreign-political speaker of the SPÖ, Mr Schieder, from the speaker's desk, and then again in the context of a discussion in the "ZiB 3" he said he would not support this government, but the SPÖ stood in front of the country and would turn away damage. I believed this because I had no doubt that the SPÖ, at least the SPÖ's foreign politicians, will stick to this line. – But I am really shocked that the opposite is now being done by what has been promised and that Austria is being harmed, and I am able to clarify this clearly here again. We have a letter written by Josette Durrieu, her character French Senator, who is also working in the Council of Europe – Mr Gusenbauer will know her – as a member of the same group. It calls on the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Walter Schwimmer, to resign in a letter. And do you know what reason? – Because he is an Austrian and because he is a member of the Austrian People's Party and has a corresponding attitude. There you can say: Okay, everyone's free in his mandate and can say what he wants. I'll give you the right. However, the fact that she is now collecting signatures from the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe for this declaration is one thing. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's unheard of!]] At the same time, however, the head of the group of the Social Democrats in the Council of Europe of the Austrians Peter Schiederist is the other, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations and aharufs with the ÖVP and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And the third thing to do is that Josette Durrieu is his deputy. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: These are nesters!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a scandal!]] Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Is it really the task of the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe to call on the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Walter Schwimmer to resign because he is a member of the Austrian People's Party? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because he is an Austrian!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we should have a basic consensus in this House that this is not the case, and reject it with all determination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It really cannot go so far that someone who admits to a party who was elected Secretary General in the previous period when Walter Schwimmer supported a government under social democratic leadership in Austria is now being invited to resign. It appears that signatures are collected among all members of the Socialist Group in the Council of Europe. I am really shocked at it and would like to ask you to definitely stop this nonsense. It really doesn't make sense for you to start practicing some kind of family-disability right now. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is only a confirmation!]] The second point required is similar: The representatives of the Austrian People's Party in the Council of Europe, Edeltraud Gatterer and my ability, are to be excluded. Not that it would have been requested that Members of the Free Party should be excluded, no, we should be excluded. Ladies and gentlemen! If that's not a family problem, then I'm actually wondering what to do. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's how they are, the socialists!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs. Mertel says this is also a possibility...!]] For my group, I would like to say: Do you stand by your word – and I take the floor – that you stand before Austria and will not try to continue to harm our reputation abroad by actions such as this! I ask you to take this seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am still in favour of what my party and I, as a foreign-political speaker, have said here in full clarity, namely that we want to continue clearly in foreign policy and in European policy where we have stopped together. And I don't think it makes sense to make a change in this direction, even after such events. I am in favour, and I ask you once again to consider whether such actions should not be stopped from your side so that we can find together to a measure that will be the right thing for Austria in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I think it's not too late yet, but I ask you very strongly to review your basics in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15471	President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15493	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has set itself ambitious objectives, including in the offensives in environmental policy and in a policy for rural regions and agriculture and forestry. Mrs Glavischnig! This Federal Government has also set itself the goal of making structural changes in the administration, which means that we will create a venue that will bear the name "Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Protection and Environmental Policy". Mrs Glavischnig, I would think it is completely wrong to take, from the point of view of an environmentalist, the question of the administrative structure as a measure of whether environmental policy is taken seriously or not. Mrs Glavischnig, I would like to tell you – and They know that, for example, the European Union has set itself the goal of fully implementing environmental policy in all policy areas, regardless of the question of the administrative structure. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a great goal that will ultimately shape the area to be held by me. This great and common objective is to secure our livelihoods, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can be sure that environmental policy in this station constellation is by no means an attachment. I don't know exactly how You said that, I think you said in your speech that she would be "snipped up." - No! The environment and the employees with whom I have had a very good first conversation can be certain, under my responsibility, that environmental policy will have a central role as the central task of this Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say something about this because I have been confronted with one question or another, and I am going to go to it openly. Especially from the circle of the environmental movements, the question was asked: Isn't that where the bock becomes a gardener? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exactly! That's it!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Measure the work we are planning on the result! Measure us on the program, measure us in implementation! Do you know what I'm proud of? – That I have introduced the principle of sustainability into the Austrian agricultural policy and that the principle of sustainability on Austrian initiative has been enshrined as a central element of the European model of agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Sustainable Farm Mortgage!]] In my view, therefore, sustainability is the central and final highlight of what we have as the protection of our resources and interests in life: If you want to do so, the "Ministry of Life" agriculture, forestry, water protection and the environment, that is my political objective. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in environmental policy, we have important tasks ahead of us. I am thinking at European level, for example, of the continuation of the debate on the integration of environmental policy into all policy areas. For example, I think that the European Union's enlargement as an opportunity for the European environmental situation is an important objective. I am also thinking, for example, of the operation of the Kyoto objective with all local authorities in Austria, the Federal Government, the countries and the municipalities. This is a great task that lies ahead of us during this legislative period. I am also thinking about the issue of waste development, of evaluating this system according to the longer experience with the current systems and developing it where it is necessary. Water protection is also one of the most important tasks that a modern and offensive environmental policy must aim at. Mrs Glavischnig! Ladies and gentlemen! In agriculture and forestry, important priorities must also be set. It concerns the implementation of Agenda 2000, the further development of the European model and the defence of this European model at international level, the WTO Negotiation tag – a key issue for the environment and agriculture. Finally, it is also about the development of rural regions: not only in the sense of the economic activity of farmers, but also of all the people living there and the necessary ecological stability of these regions. It also raises the question of improving the competitiveness of our farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say very openly to you: They cannot believe that farmers can provide their ecological services if they have competitive disadvantages to their competitors. I believe that, through our environmental programme, we must make farmers in Austria a new offer for the ecological orientation of agriculture, but at the same time ensure that the economic base of agriculture is designed in such a way that we can also make ecologically reasonable economies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is my goal for a very important and interesting area of activity, a task area in which there are many similarities. I think, for example, that the question of a sustainable energy policy is in the mutual interest of agriculture and forestry and the environment, especially when it comes to the question of renewable raw materials and energy sources. I would therefore like to invite you to cooperate offensively in this project. You said you were going to measure us by what we did. That's what I'm inviting you to do. However, I also invite you to seek the constructive-critical dialogue and not because you have a preliminary ruling, but in this dialogue, which cannot be a one-way road, to bring in the level of constructive cooperation that will be necessary here in the House in order to contribute to environmental policy and rural areas. I am ready to do so and I also assume that, in the sense of the democratic rules of the game, You will not be able to conclude this dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15571	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Karl Schlögl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15595	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Many Austrians are concerned about the circumstances under which these two parliamentary sessions took place yesterday and today. They are concerned that the National Council can only meet under the strictest police controls that there are security measures in the house, that there are demonstrations daily and that hundreds of police and gender army officials from all over Austria must be gathered. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They have managed to divide this republic internally, to isolate and expose it internationally after a few days' time by the Free and Black Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who called for this?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Now you say why!]] [[Further calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, are those who help break the basic consensus in this Republic of Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some of you today have claimed that this new federal government corresponds to the electorate's will and is an expression of election will. I'll argue. This new federal government has come about on the basis of election disappointment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Please explain!]] ==References====External links== October would have known that it would have come to this federal government, then they would have acted differently and voted differently. Then it would not be that the third party, the third strongest who claimed that they are going to opposition when they become third parties, are suddenly the first in this country. [[New calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is unique in Europe that the most powerful party in a country is pushed into opposition. There is no country in Europe where the strongest party is also in opposition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Some today have claimed that social democracy will make fundamental opposition in this House. I can promise you that we will not. Social democracy has been a state-bearing party in this country in recent years and decades and will also be a state-bearing party in the opposition. [[Calls:War]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Freeman! We will only measure you by what actions you take in this new federal government. And we will measure you by how much you will implement from what you have announced in the past, what you have promised. Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, were masters in announcing and promising, and now it is your job to implement what you have promised. – Our task will be to be careful to ensure that what you have promised is also respected by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As an opposition in this House, we will not allow you to make all that we are proud of in this Republic in the next few months and years bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trattner.]] We are proud that Austria is a country where there has so far been a high degree of social peace. We are proud that Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. We are proud that Austria has a good employment situation, high environmental standards, low inflation rates and excellent economic growth, and we are proud that we have a very good internal security. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You should look at the budget!]] We have created all of this in joint work in three decades of social-democratic government in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: bankruptcy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! My principle was always to build bridges in politics, and I hope that together we will do everything we can to ensure that this new federal government also retains this principle in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the things I have read in this statement of government make me suspect that the crack that has arisen in our society may grow much bigger. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You will already contribute a lot to this!]] Your government statement and your government programme clearly show that you want to carry out a new form of redistribution: a redistribution of the rich to the socially weak and from the workers to the entrepreneurs in this country. [[Demonstratetive applause by Dr. Martin Graf and Haigermoser]] [[Complaints and intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I just need to quote to you the statement of the Tyrolean chairman of the Austrian Workers' and Workers' Federation Helmut Mader, who, for example, has said in the media today that this new federal government is not acceptable to the overarching social reduction and that the new Federal Government is obviously aimed at depowering the trade unions. – We will not do so, against which we will clearly make opposition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of redistribution, I quote once again a statement from the Austrian Workers' and Employees' Federation, this time that of Secretary Dietmar Wetz from Vorarlberg, who says: Businesses have 19 billion schilling on their hands, and employees are waiting for 14 billion new loads. – This is what the Austrian Workers' and Employees' Federation says. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Socio-political policy, as you do for example in the field of rent money, cannot be a fair social policy. Whoever gives has too little for those who really need it. And we will also be against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We're not going to make a fundamental opposition. However, together with the trade unions, whether they are social-democratic, green, liberal or black trade unionists, we will do everything we can to prevent the threat of social reduction in this country and to safeguard Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There are only "over-party trade unions"!]] However, I am not only afraid of the political climate and the guarantee of the social network in this country, but also of dangerous developments in security policy. If this government programme says that everyone is 15. Service posts are reduced, and if it says that 2% of all planning posts are saved per year, this means, for example, that in the case of the Austrian executive, up to 700 planning posts are saved per year. This government programme clearly states that the executive is not excluded from this decommissioning. And this, ladies and gentlemen, would be a dangerous saving in the wrong spot, and that would be enormous! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As Minister of the Interior, I was always proud that I was able to get additional posts for the Ministry of the Interior. The Freedom Party has supported me in this matter. I can assure you that the Social Democratic Party will support all those who contribute to the fact that internal security is not saved, because saving there would be a saving on the wrong spot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian executive is highly motivated, excellently trained and well equipped. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Thank God!]] The Austrian executive will continue to need the necessary legal possibilities, good equipment and sufficient personnel in the future. Dropping Please don't have proven structures! Do everything so that the Austrian executive can work in the future in the interest of this country! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you again: We Social Democrats will do everything we can to prevent further damage to Austria's international reputation in the future. We will do everything we can to ensure that bridges that have been built are preserved in the future. We are concerned with our country, we are concerned about the Republic of Austria. We are concerned with securing all that has been built together in a social, a secure and affluent country in the future. We Social Democrats will be the lawyer of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15866	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15906	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schlögl has taken the mask off his face and reminds me a little of Mr Van der Bellen when this clubman of the green club became. Previously the speeches were Van der Bellens is always more objective and moderate. But when he became Klubobmann, he probably got on the road that he had to be aggressive towards the FPÖ, otherwise he was Klubobmann. It is similar with Mr Schlögl. I have to say: Your frustration must be infinitely deep, the frustration of the failure towards the Austrian population. This shows your song of praise that you have now sung that 30 years of socialism in Austria mean more full employment, richest country and the like. – Actors like you are satisfied, only the people are no longer satisfied, because it just isn't true! It's just not right, and you know that very well! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Not even the increase in the number of employees in the Ministry of the Interior has led to a success. And I must say that I am disappointed by you personally and humanly, because as Minister of the Interior, Mr Schlögl, you have really acted in such a way that you can say: That was all right, you can accept that. – But now you have taken the mask off, and now a frenzy of hatred has arisen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15938	Deputies! I give you a call for order for the expression "freath of hatred". And I wonder what announcements about an ordinary conversation are worth when such a thing happens here! Please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e15968	Mr President. However, I would also expect the Socialist International to be in Europe once as it belongs to democratic parties, and to stop the het campaign throughout Europe. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schlögl has now repeated this. He is pleased directly, I have the impression that there is such a state in Austria. He regrets that no more demonstrations are taking place today, because people no longer demonstrate as much as you would like. Now you have to light up and shake. You know very well that this government programme requires action because you have failed to implement and implement it in your time. And I'll tell you what else's going to happen: Social reduction will not take place in this Republic, but in the next few years there will be more social and less socialism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There will be a distribution from top to bottom, because you were the greatest privilege riders. I repeat: The National Bank and others, the supply of schools and co, all that was always a big concern to you. The employees of the "consum" have postponed you to foundations. The people of VEST have been disappointed by you. Those who were sitting in the chiefs' days went out at the door with individual contracts and millions of pensions, but the workers took away the extra board of a few hundred schillings. – This is "living socialism" in Austria! High social peace was there because there is a party-political union here in our country, which has held its mouth for 30 years – and now believes that their time has come. I'm warning you. We will be able to welcome Mr Vergestnich now, but earlier it was always like this: As President of the ÖGB, he strongly opposed the government's programmes in the morning in his Federal Board meeting. In the case of pension cuts and deterioration for officials and the like, he was always opposed. But when it came to the vote in Parliament, he always followed and voted in favour of the cuddly course. He was always there, he was always in the government coalition. I can't remember him voting against it once. Now he'll finally get a little easier. Now he can go out, and it is publicly celebrated what he is doing. It was particularly he and especially the Social Democratic Group who admitted zero wage rounds to the pensioners who had hardly made any more increases in the remuneration of officials who had created labour-law conditions which were no longer social. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] The main thing is, your little sheep were in the dry, Mr. Minister! The main thing, your little sheep and your officers were in the dry. That's important. [[Abg. Kiermaier: Let's pick up the record!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] In reality, the world was fine for you all until Friday at 12 o'clock. Now you're trying to bring a global downfall in here. We will succeed in what you and your group have failed for years. This is once the equality between workers and employees – social equality. Then it will finally be finished once... [[Abg. Oils: What are you doing? Say it!]] Mr Oellinger! Calm down, we think similarly. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] – What is it? [[Abg. Oellinger: Do you want to make the employees equal with the employers as well?]] Why not? All people who make a contribution in this Republic should also have corresponding incomes. We agree on this, regardless of the type of employment. We will finally succeed in the question of handling that many hundreds of thousands who have not yet been able to obtain a claim for processing will receive a discharge. And as far as the self-retaining of workers and employees is concerned, I am going to pay very close attention to what is happening. There will be no increase in health care. Under your era, it has almost ceased to be eligible for funding, and many people have had to afford an additional insurance because you have approved a two-class system in health care. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's it!]] Without supplementary insurance, there is no proper medical care. This is the problem you are facing. But what irritates and shakes me most is the following. Austria did not have the EU Presidency for too long, and it is your friends in the EU who are now most likely to join you, namely you and all the other parties, especially the people. Maybe your friends will wake up and think about what they're doing with it. I really want to invite the SPÖ to put off her frustration, which she has, of course, because now her outrages come slowly, but surely to the light of light. In the tomorrow edition of the "Kurier" it is to be read that the economic researcher Kramer expects a budget deficit of 50 billion schilling. I emphasize: 50 billion, Mr. Ex. Edlinger! That's why the trouble is so great. On the one hand is the frustration, on the other hand the fear of discovering your outrages. That's what makes you so nervous. But I really invite you to return to the ground of reality. It is true that the safeguarding of social prosperity also succeeds other democratic parties in a republic – not only the SPÖ. Under the SPÖ, there has even been a degradation in recent years. They were against modernisations, they were against privatisations until it was no longer possible. And here, in many areas where you have allowed it, things have improved considerably. I would also like to ask the Social Democrats first of all: Where does your economic responsibility to Austrian taxpayers remain? I see you're happy today when it comes to international boycotts. With each of your speakers you can see a slightly savory smile. [[Abg. Jäger: As the bad guy thinks, so is he!]] Congresses are said to be cancelled and so on. I'll tell you one thing: We will embarrass you with our work we will do! They will experience in a few years that a republic with a wealth is possible only if the Social Democratic Party is ordered to think about it. Then she may reflect on her true values again and again and again – as we have been for years; that is why the appeal to our party is so great – to the workers in this Republic, who hope that in the future their work and pensions will be safeguarded in the long term and that our youth will have jobs to do so again, so that their future will be secure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16104	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16125	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the right and left of the Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Bundeskanzler, on the morning, almost at the beginning of your government statement – which is also available in writing – you said the following sentence, which is absolutely legitimate and which I also emphasize: I would like a disarmament in words, fairness in the assessment and return to the proportionality of political actions. Federal Chancellor! How do you actually feel when a friend, a colleague – I don't know how you call the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party – gets out of here a few hours later and speaks of the "fear of hatred" when he speaks to colleagues of the National Council? I really ask you how you feel, because we are now here to evaluate the words of your declaration of government, your agreement between blue and black. Other colleagues, including the Green Group, have already expressed a relatively detailed opinion on how we assess your approach, how we judge the international boycott and how we take responsibility for it. Not least, the reason why we have tabled a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry has already been justified. There will also be a discussion on this. That's why I'm asking you: How do you feel when someone says something like this, who has defined and spelled out the word "Nazi" as an abbreviation for "n eu", "a tactiv", "z eelstrebig" and "i deenreich" not too long ago? How do you feel, Federal Chancellor?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16164	Mr Krüger! You can't make intermediate calls from the ministerial bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16179	How do you feel in the company of these fellow Members, Mr Bundeskanzler? There's a proverb that I don't want to quote, because I don't like animal comparisons instead, but it's certainly known to you. It's about bed and animals. You know it, Mr. Federal Chancellor. That's how you do it. That's what causes me to worry. Because this sentence that you wish for disarmament in words, the fairness of the assessment and a return to proportionality is in itself correct, and it is also for you as the Federal Chancellor to wish for it from us. But, Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and Federal Chancellor in office: There's uneducated there on the right side of the house. They are – and I personally have an observation period of almost ten years here in the National Council – who are uninstructable and repeat these things that make this aware, not inadvertently insisting on repeating such things and not correcting them, but also using the method to say something to apologize for them the next day – not voluntarily, but after public protest – in order to repeat it again on the third day or to create another scoop. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Young: Talk about Voggenhuber!]] Federal Minister! I ask you: How do you feel on the government bank when, together with Mr Krüger, you are sitting there, who, in connection with the definition of concentration camps as a "straflager" here in Parliament, spoke of "semantic masturbation"? How do you feel as a Christian-social politician in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Don't be so sorry and raunt!]] In the past, I have often come to know you – as a foreign minister, but also as an economic minister before – as a Christian-social politician, so as not to say, sometimes also appreciated. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Now I ask you: How do you feel on this bank with "Nazi" book-stabs, with people who lead their own word a few hours later already so ad absurdum? We do not need to be surprised when abroad reacts the way it reacts. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Mr President, what are you doing?]] Internationally, ladies and gentlemen, unlike us, there is no habiting effect on "Nazi" book-stabers, no habiting effect on concentration camps, no habiting effect on friends of the Waffen SS. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is this, ladies and gentlemen, that inspires colleagues abroad! [[Call to the liberals: There are the Hetzers on the way!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Mr Bundeskanzler – and this is also addressed to Mr Spindelegger: Even before the constellation of this federal government was established, but already after the end of the negotiations to try to establish a government between the Social Democrats and you, Federal Chancellor, a report was discussed in the Council of Europe - I am also delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly - on the right-wing extremities in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I went down cold when I observed those colleagues who had been sent by this National Council to the Council of Europe who were the only ones in addition to the far right from Belgium, who supported and also applauded the requests of a Shirinowski. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gatterer.]] That's it! This is your company, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That's it! And then Mr Spindelegger is also mistakenly elected Members of other countries, if they practice political criticism, such as the criticism of these French Members in the Council of Europe, whom you, Mr Spindelegger, have spoken here. I would like to say the following: We will not allow ourselves to practice political criticism, although we also accept certain formal principles. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Your company did not deserve Mr. Edlinger!]] For example, the fact that you have 104 mandates here in this House and therefore also have a large majority is a fact that no one will dispute. But no one – and not the people who are now able to tell us about the composition of this federal government – in a 300-metre-respect distance from Parliament – will ban us from criticizing us, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do you want to inside like at the Burgtheater?]] That is why it is my special concern – I have been with the demonstrators outside several times – to say that precisely these young people, who are all sympathetic, committed, politically active, need our support. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I was afraid of that! I didn't think you'd make a confession!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: So far only suspected, now we know!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: With the black flag of anarchy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] These young people are really concerned about what else politicians are not all too often today, especially not the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: It's about the future of young people. I can't hear it any more when politicians say: It's about our youth, it's about the future of our children. – That’s what you keep in your mouth. But those outside are really about their future, and they are concerned when Austria is isolated from Europe and across Europe, but not only in Europe. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would just expect you to do so – not the colleagues on the right, since I have lost the feeling that hops and malts are missing; [[the speaker points towards the banking series of the liberals]] For example, Gaugg – that you address a word to those young, committed people outside and do not allow them to be defamated on a flat-rate basis that, as done by the liberals, they are denoted as left-wing terrorists on a flat-rate basis. I'll tell you: Every paving stone flying in this Republic is a paving stone too much! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Hops and malt for a patchstone!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: With the black flag of the anarchy?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Chief.]] In particular, the Greens are the party which, as one of its four basic principles, has laid down the freedom of violence, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Anyone who only remembers in the least that this principle is not really holy to us is wrong. We have proved it to you many times in the past. However, it is a fundamental right that the young people, who otherwise worry so much, make use of their democratic right to express their displeasure. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Throwing stones...!]] And nothing else does it, that is, loud! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Let's clap!]] That is why I must say, Mr President, to all the ladies and gentlemen who are sitting here: This martial occurrence of the police, the federal army and all those who are somehow uniformed in Austria and are now gathered around Parliament is exactly what promotes people like those sitting in here on the right, who agree on politics's right to go on a path of disarmament in words and fairness in the assessment of problems. I do not appeal for the abolition of the "bannmile" – which will already have its historical reason – but I appeal to everyone to consider what picture it provides when the people's representation locks off in such a way that subway access is blocked that people cannot go to work there, where they want Parliament to be like a fortress over days, but not a house of encounter, not a house of discussion and not a house of verbal debate. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Do you want to have it inside like at the Burgtheater?]] That's what worries me! [[Calls and counter-calls between honourable Members Mag. Posch and Dr. Ofner.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to take away other colleagues from my group's speaking time. There will be an opportunity to do something that will be great fun for me in the coming months – if this government will sit there for months at all –: to measure this government by your words and your actions, Mr. Federal Chancellor! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16480	Mr Spindelegger spoke in favour of an actual correction. I do not need to explain the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16504	Mr President. Mrs Stoisits claimed that I had supported a request from Mr Schirinowski, a Russian Member, who would have voted in connection with a report on racism in Europe. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The liberals, they said!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: No, she didn't claim!]] I'm actually correcting: I didn't do that. I was here in plenary as you were, Mr Stoisits, while this report was being voted in the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16580	The next speaker is Mr Puttinger. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16601	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Dear Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Before I deal with the real issue, allow me to make two corrections to the statements made by the former Minister for the Interior, Karl Schlögl. After all, he said: The government does not correspond to the electorate's will. Apparently he would not have read paper, otherwise he would have found that the Austrians have clearly expressed their support for the formation of a government under the blue bowl. 70 percent of Austrians voted in favour of this. It is also unlikely to have the latest information from the APA and does not know that "NEWS" finds that ÖVP has won 3 percent and that the chancellor’s question is clearly based on a 28 percent priority, with an increase of 9 percent. – I think Schlögl is something uninformed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But allow me also to address a second matter. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Leikam.]] If we are already excited about the fact that there are grids and barriers outside, then we should not go here and support what the Socialist trade unionist group, namely the Public Service Trade Union, the federal group, has sent out, namely the call for demonstration and the call for funds to be provided. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! What's that supposed to mean first? And second, I ask you: What are you planning in the future? – For example, here is reading – I quote –: The request for the federal fractions is made to you until the 18th century. To inform you on February with how many colleagues you can come to demonstrations within the very shortest time. - Quote. How long do you plan this in advance? How long do you want to demonstrate here in Austria? – I ask you: Say it openly and honestly here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Now I know why...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are important and important days for us, important because for the first time for 30 years the Austrian People's Party has been re-establishing the German Chancellor and can therefore present and implement a Christian-social government programme; significant because for the first time an ÖVP-FPÖ coalition was formed in the history of the Second Republic; significant because the Social Democratic Party of Austria has no government responsibility after 30 years and is thus in the opposition together with the Greens and with this loss of power, as I believe, has not yet been completed; significant also because we first have the chance of renewing Austria and will also use it after three decades. This government will re-rule. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are integrated into all international organisations, such as the UN, the Council of Europe, the OECD, the OSCE and since 1995 in the EU. I think all of us have always done our best there. We have the closest relations with the European Union. The majority of the population fully acknowledges the political principles of the European Union. We have relations with her, which are economically relevant, which are economically important. Over two thirds of foreign trade is done with these countries. We are bringing 7 billion Schilling more goods from EU countries. Austria has invested more than 3.6 million euros in the EU countries over the last three years. Austria has always offered a home for 16.6 million tourists, 14 million of them from the European countries. Austria is also a link between the EU and the new candidate countries. In order for Austria to continue this journey in the future, we call on all our partners in the EU, but also you, ladies and gentlemen, from the SPÖ and the Greens, to preserve fairness to the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For the economy as an engine for prosperity, training and employment, the Declaration of Government includes a clear commitment to the country of business Austria, to the eco-social market economy and to competition and, I believe, clearly demonstrates social competence. The aim of this Federal Government is to free the economy from the strict and narrow corset of state influence and disability. It strengthens the competitiveness of businesses without ultimately burdening the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government strengthens Austria's economic location. But by the excitement of the last few days, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this economic location in Austria is really under threat. How, do you think, will this supranational response of the EU ultimately affect the voting behaviour of the Swiss referendum on European Union? Finally, how will all those governments or all those people in the most small candidate countries decide when they see a small member country of this EU being disdained by the great? Ladies and gentlemen! The government programme here bears the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party and is also identical in many respects to the agreements concluded with the Socialists. However, I would just like to address some changes, improvements that could be made with the FPÖ. I am thinking about the additional wage costs, which are now a reduction of 15 billion schilling – and not one of 12 billion schilling. I am also thinking of the financing of research and development, namely the proceeds from the privatisation of ÖIAG beyond debt eradication. I remember that the "Austria of digital" project was founded; a new project is planned, which is finally so far to deal with the changes in virtual society that we set signs of what is happening in this society and how we solve problems in the future. Of course, new and very important are the so-called little things that have been agreed that have not been taken over in recent years, because it has not been possible to reach agreements on this subject. I am thinking, for example, of the commitment to the Master's exam as an important part of the qualification system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am thinking about access to universities and colleges. I'm thinking about the day-to-day training hours at the apprentices until 23 o'clock. I am thinking of the reliefs in the field of seasonal kidneys. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These are measures that give businessmen freedom and enable them to actually work and services. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: If this is an achievement?- Oh, my God!]] What is really behind the excitement of the last few days? – After exactly 30 years, the SPÖ lost the Federal Chancellor. What is of course in other European democracies is the staged state crisis in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Even the important media in this country agree that the European response to the democratically full turnaround in Austria is completely covered. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if in view of the allegations that a former Federal Chancellor of this Republic was significantly involved in the emergence of this – I would say – diplomatic amocalypse, which CSU chief Edmund Stoiber also said, then it is confirmed that what viewed foreign media have found after in-depth research. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – Mr Parnigoni! I think you're reading foreign newspapers, too. The government programme of the ÖVP and the FPÖ is a case in point in the Second Republic. Through well thought-out structural measures, the economy is getting more air for breathing. It is now up to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens, to give us this air. I think we need air, we don't want to keep stuck in the corset we used to be in. We from the Austrian People's Party stand with serenity and above all with self-confidence as Austrian towards our European partners. We respect foreign concerns and concerns. However, we must naturally oppose irrational concerns, complaints, suspicions, prejudices and prejudices self-confident. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We all have a lot to do together in the next few months. I would like to congratulate the new government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16728	Mr Jung referred to an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16753	Thank you, Mr President. – Mrs Stoisits, you claimed earlier that the liberals would have been the only ones who had voted with Mr Schirinowski in Strasbourg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] – This is false! Rather, it is true that we voted against a resolution with others – I will then list them – which one-sidedly condemned the Freedom Party and were not allowed to speak in the "democratic" Strasbourg. In contrast, British Conservatives, representatives of the Swiss People's Party, representatives of the Norwegian Fremskrittspartzeit and so on and so on. You have a very selective imagination of truth, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16795	The next speaker is Mr Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16816	Mr President. Mr. Bundeskanzler! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in his statement of government, the Federal Chancellor has rightly pointed to the democratic, social and economic success of our country: a balance of success, which has been borne by efforts, by work, the zeal of a population that has always borne the hands of that country, a population that has done enormously for Austria and has also rebuilt Austria accordingly after most difficult phases of our history, a population that has made this country a rich country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is a rich country – yes! – but yet we all know that many of our people, too many in our population, are in difficult situations of life, that too many of our population live below the poverty line, that too many in our country do not know how to finance their existence. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that structural reforms in this country are so urgently needed, because we can only measure the prosperity of a society in reality by how it is that 10 percent of society that did not fall on the butter side of life. I therefore also believe that it was so important to make a political change here because this government, with the programme it has presented today, will also show in this area that one can work in favour of the population and that in the final effect the quality of life of the population can be increased. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we want to present in particular the budgetary policy, the financial policy of this federal government, which is to address with openness, with transparency and also with honesty a very difficult task. I don't think anyone needs to lie in this high house in the bag. They all probably know even better than I do today that we have lived in this Republic over the last 30 years on our relations. It has not been a year in the last 30 years in which Austria has not spent more than it has taken. During the last 30 years, while revenue has increased over the last 30 years, it has managed to increase its financial debt to forty times, to increase its financial debt by 3 700 percent, to more than 1,600 billion schilling, to more than 1.6 trillion schilling. This does not include the extra-budget liabilities of that country at all. This is a mountain of debt, ladies and gentlemen, which we have not necessarily to bear, but the next generation, our children, namely, if not, reform measures, if not actions are not taken. These are debt, ladies and gentlemen, who have increasingly led to new taxes and taxes, to more and more burdens on the population, burdens, of which each of you knows that the population is no longer willing to accept them, because everyone says: This is not going on anymore, we can no longer bear these burdens! Everyone knows that small and medium-sized enterprises are restricted today, does not know how they can exist in economic life, that they have huge problems in terms of capital formation, existence in a very competitive environment, or also in terms of the Austrian capital market, which has also been reduced by a false tax policy, so that we have never really been able to become the functioning financial and capital market that we would have liked to be internationally and that has simply taken the purchasing power of the population, which is necessary in order to achieve this balance between the economy and the labour market, which is the prerequisite for the functioning of our system. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need this new federal government with all your support. I think we have already demonstrated our power of action in the first few days by the fact that we want to ensure, of course, with a budget proposal that we have put on a legal basis on the third day of the activity of this Federal Government from an automatic point of view and that we will discuss this here in the House, that we will, at the same time, work with high pressure on the estimates for the Federal Government 2000 and bring them to the High House before the summer, that we will negotiate a second federal proposal for the year 2001, that we will negotiate a financial compensation and that we will also be able to face the major problems of this country. Ladies and gentlemen! This government has committed itself to the renovation and stabilisation of this state budget – and that is more necessary than ever. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the challenge is very great, especially when one knows that Austria has become the final light of Europe's budget consolidation, that we have managed to carry the "red lantern" in Europe and fall behind Portugal in the budget consolidation behind Spain, behind Greece. Given the speeches I have heard here – on the radio or on television, of course, only because I did not have the pleasure of being here in the House before – I really ask you how great this budget policy was indeed. Since it was unimaginable that we could fall behind Greece, behind Spain, behind Portugal, it was unimaginable that at a time when we have record debt, other countries such as Ireland, such as Denmark, the UK or, at international level, the United States managed to reorganise their budget and generate surpluses, which then made it possible to think about social, health, education and the economy offensives for the population. – This is the way that we too must take! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that what has already been started by other European Union countries in the last ten years is just ahead of us. And at the same time I do not want to stress that the path that has been taken by the Federal Government in recent years and has led the deficit to be reduced from 5 per cent to 2.5 per cent in 1999, has certainly been a major step forward as far as our finances are concerned, but one must also say how this progress has been achieved and what measures it is based on. I would not like to use my interpretation, but to mention just a few quotations, which the European Union, the OECD or the International Monetary Fund express in an annual assessment of Austrian policy. In the last reports, the following have been said: In Austria, no provision has been made for basic things relating to the future security of the Austrian site. For example, long-term pension insurance, infrastructure investment, research and development, lifelong learning, training are cited. No precautions were taken for all of this. We are talking about the least ambitious programme of all the countries of the European Union with regard to budgetary adjustment. It is said that – what we all know for a long time – the tax rate in Austria is too high with 49.2 percent after the European national accounts. It is said that – and this is an essential issue, I believe, even in the light of debates today here in the house – Austria should take precautions for future pension gaps as soon as possible in order to avoid the need for crash measures in later years. – I mean, this shows the need for action we also have on the pension issue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All this can be continued through public investment expenditure, which is lower in Austria than in other countries, investment expenditure, which, of course, has a significant employment impact and thus also serves to ensure the future of this country. This can be continued by Austria's consolidation of the last few years mainly based on one-off measures and not on an increase in the primary surplus and thus on a sustainable renovation of our budget. From all this we realize that we all need a common desire that we need the common commitment to the sustainable renovation of our budget if we ever want to discuss it again to give the population something. Because we have to be clear about one thing: You can only give something you've taken away before. And in this distribution process, in turn, a lot is lost. Therefore, discharge must be our goal in the medium and long term. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will be a personal concern for me to make it as difficult as possible for all those who express other political beliefs today with demonstrations to adopt a common budget, a consolidation and rehabilitation course in the interests of the people and the Republic. We need, if we want to go this way in our country, the pooling of all the constructive forces of this republic. It will therefore also be my concern to include the trade union, the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the Industrial Union and all the political parties in this way of fiscal consolidation, because I think that a political culture, as it has been in Austria for many years, should not be addressed with the same political culture of exclusion, of failure to speak, of non-dispute. We'll go another way and try to get everyone involved. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, we are simply asking that we not be measured by prejudices and prejudices, that we take a distance from paths, a federal chancellor, even before this government could take any measures to confront this House's mistrust, but that we actually measure this government by those achievements which we have promised in one, as I believe, very good government programme for the population. "Promise and keep!" – That should be the motto of this federal government, and that is what we want ourselves to be measured. [[Abg. Hunter: Yes, promised and kept: Flat tax!]] That is why we want to build confidence within this country, because, I believe, it is also about demonstrating to those who today demonstrate another confession, another political conviction, that they too are taken seriously, that we want to go on and involve them, and thus to show that this is a federal government that is turning to all Austrians, who want to make a forward-looking policy for the whole population and disband the state of the reform, so that it becomes clear that political change in that country is not only overdue, but rather democratic normality and not the state of emergency. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I can only ask that you do not permanently, as is the case in politics, be persuaded and dissociated, and that many things "result and dissatisfaction", but with the implementation always lags behind. I mean, it's all in common, it's all our responsibility to push forward this budget renewal. I'll be able to remind you of this in the next few weeks and months. I hope that we can contribute to making this country more open and free, that at the end of a process of rehabilitation and consolidation, there is indeed an increase in the quality of life of our population. [[Abg. Jäger: This is a threat!]] It would be my greatest wish for this legislative period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16939	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e16964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I am very grateful to my colleague, Mr Mertel, for leaving me on the list of speeches, which will allow me to respond more quickly to Mr Spindelegger. [[Abg. May. Trattner: They wanted...!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Mr Spindelegger spoke about the fact that, as a result of a declaration, a Member of the Council of Europe collects signatures for certain measures and points out that this Member is a member of the Board of Directors of the Socialist Group. He has, of course, also given the impression that it is an action of this group, whose chairman I am. First of all, I would like to state clearly and clearly that this action has not been initiated or endorsed or supported by me, or that it is not an action of the Social Democratic Group, but rather – as is the case with the head of the letter – initiated by these Members in their capacity as Head of the French delegation. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:A question (I really don't know) What was it about?]] It is an action by the French delegation, which first of all wants to achieve that the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe Walter Schwimmer leaves his membership in the ÖVP or makes his posts available – which, however, is not planned at all – and the second is the desire that the Austrian members of the ÖVP no longer belong to the Assembly, which – I will say something to you – is no longer statistically possible. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: When did you learn about this? And when did you...?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Wait! An answer first!]] Such an action would, if it went through, cost all Austrian Members the right to vote and therefore also concern myself. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Thank you, I know you!]] I have only received the documents from Mr Spindelegger and I have only learned from them. If it had not only sent him, but also me, I would probably have experienced it two hours earlier – in order to answer it quite clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I would just like to say the following: It is not an action of the Social Democrats, but please do not expect that there will be no social democrats in Europe who will start such actions as social democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: They don't deserve the word "democracy," these are socialists!]] Nor do you believe that the Social Democrats or I could get these people out of it. Please think with me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] I've only learned about it right now. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: These are not democrats!]] Please think with me: If you do not even succeed in preventing the parties of your own direction from requesting the exclusion of the EIA from the EPP, if you do not succeed in preventing such a request, you do not expect socialists to be able to achieve a little easier with other socialists who are against the EIAP, which is not accessible to EPPlers or EIA nurses or brothers who are against the EIA. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Suspendients!]] Of course, you know very well that the EIA is even offering a high-level delegation for the EPP meeting. Mr Mock, Mr Stenzel, Mr Rauch-Kallat, Mr Karas and Mr Wintoniak, who is very active in these issues, will go to the meeting of the EPP to prevent anything from happening against them in their own international affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a distraction maneuver!]] You know how difficult this is for you, so send such an important delegation. Sage So you don't want the socialists to achieve something that is so difficult for you to achieve in your own ranks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to say something about the declaration of government, specifically on the external issues in it. It is welcome that it contains the sentence that the Federal Government will strive to achieve the broadest possible national consensus on foreign and security policy. – This formulation, however, is contrary to the reality characterised by the pro-NATO course of these now governmental parties and by the intention to abolish neutrality. There are other points to which I would like to comment. I was somewhat affected by the fact that, in the economic and monetary union objectives, the principle represented by the current government is based on the principle that in Europe not only economic coordination is necessary, but the European Union should also develop into a social and employment union. The fact that this important requirement is no longer contained in the programme of this government is a real disadvantage to me. Also important claims in the field of development aid are not included in this Government Declaration. If you are verbally committed to a common foreign and security policy, then of course this must also include certain steps. In the field of security policy, this will only be possible with us if there is a commitment to a modern, peace-oriented, active neutrality policy and a rejection to NATO membership. We will certainly not take the NATO course of this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make one more comment on Parliament's work and also on the forthcoming issues in the European Union. If you are looking for common ground with us in this House, it will be necessary that we also receive the relevant information. We will have to be informed from the beginning, if we need our consent to constitutional laws, and not just at the end. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] We will not accept it if we do not receive any information on the EU's main committee, or if this committee or subcommittee is not called up at all, for example because Mr Khol believes that our requests are not entirely correct in terms of business regulations. – Perhaps he is right, but even then it is important to look for a way to be fully informed by the government very soon in the subcommittee and in the EU's main committee. Because only when we are fully informed can we discuss whether we have a position. A final remark to my previous speaker, the Minister for Finance. Mr Grasser, the Minister for Finance, has spoken a lot of common ground and trust here. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It's beautiful!]] I like it when someone says that. But if he really thinks so, he should have distanced himself – at least in terms of content – from speakers such as Mr Gaugg.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17192	The next speaker is Mrs Zierler. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17213	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! With great amazement, I have pursued interpretations and misinterpretations of our government program in recent days and weeks. By the way, even today, although the government programme is already available in writing, there have been misinterpretations. A very popular topic is the freedom of women's policy, which was then extended to the term "FPÖ-ÖVP Women's Policy". What you didn't have to read about it! For example, a "return to a macho middle age" was the speech or the "wrong of the women's ministry" – by the way, this expression came from the deputy club woman of the Greens. A brief comment: We are not shattering anything, we are refusing violence and we are committed to progress. [[Abg. Jäger: Where is the Minister of Women? We only have one woman vice chancellor!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For us, women's policy does not mean the deportation into a ghetto. Our future policy will make women's issues an integral part of the overall policy! And we didn't ruin the women's ministry, but we integrated the women's ministry. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Aha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have no idea!]] By the way, this is a decision which obviously also supports the former Minister of Women, but she said in an interview in a colorful daily: Better after her no women's ministry than another woman's minister! – Mrs. Magister Prammer, where is the credibility? [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP: Oh!]] That's a question I have to ask you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Have you ever been concerned about women or just about your position as a faithful servant of your master, so, depending on the male Chancellor, to lead the existence of a shadow minister with few competences and, above all, with even less success? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] By the way, you have confirmed that yourself today. All those who spread the untruth in this regard and to whom the "fall of women's policy" is written in the face, I ask the question: Where are they, the successes of 30 years of social-democratic women's policy?- Oh, my God! What can you show?- Oh, my God! I emphasize: 30 years of women's policy! [[Abg. May. Prammer: I'll send you the whole thing!]] I would also like to thank you very much for the press release you have made: a "Hitlist of 30 Years of SPÖ Women's Policy". I read them very carefully. If I estimate very generously, this list covers about 40 lines: the results of 30 years of social-democratic women's policy summarized in 40 lines! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] And the three-year activity of the former Minister of Women is limited to one line – that was only briefly noted. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: (a map keeping up) That's it, and it's more and thicker than your government program!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But a line is very little!]] Why don't you quote other women? There's not only one woman and not just that one woman's image! And, Mrs. Magister Prammer, you write – I quote: "In this programme – in our government programme – "there are no measures that women really need." [[Abg. May. Prammer: Right to part-time, for example!]] "Where does the quantum leap remain in the better compatibility of work and family, in the right to part-time and in the right to a childcare place? Where does the quantum leap remain in the equivalent payment for equivalent work?" - Quote. Do you expect us to implement in five days all that you promised for 30 years? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: But you are sooo "excellent"!]] With us, in the policy of the FPÖ and the ÖVP, women in leadership positions are a matter of course! We don't have to talk too much about it. The first female head of state in Austria was set by the ÖVP, and the first vice chancellor of the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] And you assume that we want to keep women away from work and career? [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I'm just wondering: What about the Greens, for example? Wasn't Mrs. Dr. Petrovic selected from her own group and she didn't have to make room for a man? What about the quota so often required? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is this quota not valid in its own party or does it not apply to leadership positions? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And something else had been said to the ladies of the SPÖ and of the Greens: You don't have the inheritance right to know all the wishes of all women! Why Citation You don't have any other letters, do you? For example: The additional third year of birth, paid only to fathers, is commendable because it takes into account that fathers are also more involved in educational work. - Quote. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Or: The extension of the limits of award is a social policy signal which does not, as before, burden women and men with a widespread ban on the profession during the karenz period. For women too, the increased limit of merit means a better compatibility of family and work, and above all, it facilitates re-entry. [[Abg. May. Prammer: No babysitting place at all! That's "super"!]] - Quote. This may seem familiar to you, because that is exactly what you have always demanded! We confess to a model of partnership and require full equality between men and women. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A babysitting fee for all for two years is a milestone! And the possibility of an additional year for the father will strengthen the interest of men to be active in family and household. – Do you call that a step back? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes!]] What do you have to do with the development of mentoring programs and networks? What do you have to do with equal opportunities for women in the profession or with the demand for equal pay for equal work? – I know you have long promised, it was also a popular election topic. We will work on it and actually implement it. What are you criticizing? What do you criticise that we want to change women's discriminatory working time regulations? [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and hunter.]] I would really like to hear a reply from you. And what do you criticize that we also support women in old age? That's one thing, so I'd like to say, pretty white spot. [[Abg. Jäger:... very "woman-friendly"!]] Another comment on another subject. Mrs Petrovic, who is unfortunately not present at the moment, has also mentioned today the release of an editor of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) and wants to make this government responsible for it. There's an issue, so it's not a secret paper, it can really read anyone: The editor and editor-in-chief firmly reject the claim that the separation of editor Marshal was politically motivated. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: We saw that on TV!]] I quote: "The reason for this lies, rather, in the style of the contributions by editor Marshal, who repeatedly, and in recent months increasingly, let excess parity... and lack objectivity," which is not portable for an employee of an independent medium. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] And by the way, it says: "We therefore strongly note that our decision was not based on any other motive than the effort to maintain the independence of the newspaper in all directions." - Quote. I therefore ask Mrs Petrovic to really stick to facts and finally stop sowing seeds of distrust. What our country needs now is politicians with character, backbone and at least a minimum of democratic attitude!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17532	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17554	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Several times in today's debate, it has already been noted that in many areas this declaration of government is the same as a collection of words and content is difficult to make up. Nevertheless, you have apparently succeeded in conveying a certain symbolism. I can read a quote from this week's "format" in which a representative of the striking "Olympia" link made the following statement: "There are already some right values that are gladly represented in the Coalition Pact – for example, in family, tax and education policy." - Quote. These are topics that concern me very much, and I could say: This man knows what he's talking about. In contrast to the Declaration of Government, the Coalition Pact makes the matter much clearer. For example, if it says that national performance standards are required in the school system and a comparison of the performance of schools is to be introduced, then it will become clearer in what direction to go. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What do you have against it?]] .I'll tell you that right now, colleague Brinek. Apart from the fact that teachers and students are naturally put under massive pressure when it comes to this development, namely a comparability of schools, this also clearly goes towards the development of elite schools. Can you explain to me the meaning of this measure, which will logically lead to the stigmatization of those schools at the lower end of this scale, and the emphasis on those schools that are above? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That the schools are getting better!]] Can you explain to me what sense this is supposed to make in a system of education which is carried by the state? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: For you, performance is equal to elite!]] There's no such thing as that! It can only make sense if at the same time one forces the idea of privatisation of the education system. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Good idea!]] I quote from a publication of the ÖVP, and admittedly not from this declaration of government, but from the report "Austria-Future", an initiative by Vice Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Now Federal Chancellor!]] – So it is; Vice chancellors are no longer right, he is now Federal Chancellor. This report clearly states – I quote – that: We propose the introduction of an educational check. This would bring many benefits to promote educational opportunities at all levels and lifelong learning. In the school sector, parents or students could freely choose the educational offer. - Quote. This "equal opportunities" you mention here is "a phenomenal" if you can go anywhere with a check. And it goes on to say: The educational check would ensure cost transparency on the one hand and at the same time increase opportunities for private providers and increase competition on the other. At all levels, we stand for privatisation and thus for the abolition of the state education monopoly. - Quote. I can tell you with all the clarity: The Greens certainly do not share this rejection with the state education system! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In short, a point that is really very interesting, namely the objective award of posts in schools. They propose to all serious ones a system to ensure, in accordance with the proportionally occupied national school councils, that non-proportional, objective allocation of head functions is ensured. – That can’t work at all, and it won’t work either! We Greens have developed a model – we have already presented it in Vienna, where it now has considerable approval – to which, according to the final decision, the schools concerned and thus the teachers, the students and the parents are to be shared. They have become aware of the co-determination and democratization of the school system. However, you have left out the opportunity to implement it. The following is also addressed to colleagues from the ÖVP and also the FPÖ, who have now received a government partner, who has not in the past necessarily stood for the objective of post-contracting in the public service. The results of the last human representation elections are as follows: The Christian Trade Unionists Group has reached almost 56 percent of the BHS and 57 percent of the AHS. A special example is Lower Austria, the country from which I come, a "model example" of objective post-contracting: 80.46% of compulsory school teachers have elected the Christian Trade Unionists' Group. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: So what?- Oh, my God!]] - So what? I expected it to come! We've heard these explanations for years. We hear again and again: The good work of our trade unionists is the only reason why we are so strong there. They will also explain to us in a few years after the next elections why these percentages have not changed. And you will then also tell us again that people who have a party book must not be disadvantaged. – You should finally start to end the proportional award of posts in schools and finally come to an objective post award! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The proportion is gone!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] At the end of the day, I'm still on the way to family promotion. Mr Zierler mentioned it again earlier, and it has already been explained several times what great progress should be 24 plus 12 months in contrast to the present system. We have already discussed this in great detail in the Family Committee, and there are figures which you do not mention here: Only 1.5 percent of men currently use half-year's karenz time. – I think it is not from Jux and Tollery that only so few men are still willing to go in Karenz, but it results from very clear framework conditions, which, among other things, mean that in most cases, families can simply and simply not afford. They widen out – that is, the loss of income is now extended from half a year to a year – and explain to us that this is a huge advantage. Instead, you could finally explain to us what measures you want to take to ensure that this family-politically extremely useful step – namely that men go in Karenz too – could be achieved. But you haven't done that before. They have not changed the framework conditions. Neither the company's re-establishment obligation nor the amount of karenz money have been improved. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: The amount of karenz money? Please read, Mr Colleague: 6 250!]] What you are saying now is what you have called valorization in other areas, such as motor insurance tax. For how many years have you not raised this cash? If you're talking about valorization in other areas, you probably have to do it here. That's not a real increase! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Then call it "valorization"!]] One last comment on the karenz money: We have looked through various cases to find out in which family situations this model brings something and in which it has nothing to do with it. According to your new model, there is a single family situation that brings substantial benefits to this model, namely that of the single earner. All the others are not taken into account. So certain family situations are promoted by you, and others are not. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: How do you get it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's what you want the wives to stay at home!]] Finally, I come to the following point: I was very surprised that when Mr Westenthaler made the statement in the debate on the Rules of Procedure earlier on, this government will stand out by the fact that it will comply with the laws and also with the Rules of Procedure, the entire U.K. Deputies of the ÖVP have fallen into rhythmic claws. Did you tell us that in the past, in the last legislative period, you did not comply with the laws and the rules of procedure? Maybe you could explain this clap to us more precisely. I would be very surprised if that were the reason. They have shown here in Parliament in the last few days in dealing with the opposition in any case – both, ÖVP and FPÖ – that the new government coalition will certainly not improve democracy here in the house. The Greens will continue to resist this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17768	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17790	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! "Re-government" is the motto that is being debated today, and I would like to say a few words about the Justice chapter. Since I was present, no government declaration has so far focused on the area of justice as broad as this time. In previous coalition agreements, the judicial chapter was always heavily influenced by the workers' chamber. At the time, therefore, it was not so intense about internal questions as it was about other areas which were particularly important to the Chamber of Labour. This time the thing has been quite different. This time, the legal professions have also brought their ideas in quite a massive way, and this time the chapter on justice also looks quite different, which is much closer to justice. It has been agreed that through an acceleration of proceedings and a new right of appeal, a much better access to law should be made possible, because we already have to note that around 40 percent of the complaints currently filed with the public prosecutor's office concern justice in the wider context and that the public prosecutor's office is not really responsible for this. That is why we are creating a new right of appeal, without intervening in the independence of justice and, of course, not in legal decisions. We therefore want to set up a Senate directly with the judiciary itself – with the Supreme Courts – to deal with these complaints, and we want to give the People's Procuratorate a right of encouragement. It is also true that with regard to the fight against crime, we give the chapter "Straves" very wide space. We want to review the entire criminal catalogue, rethink the proportionality in the penalties between fines and court sentences, between property offences and violent offences. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Bring away the solution! You're not right!]] And, Mrs Lichtenberger, we also want to clarify the administrative criminal law, because in many areas we have a huge disproportionateness. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The cumulation principle!]] For example, we want to rethink the cumulation principle, because that is something that in many areas actually leads to disproportionate punishments. In some cases, it has not been properly transported in the media, which we are planning on limiting the disversion. That is why I would like to make this clear. We will limit the issue of debt, i.e. only if there is little debt, the division will be possible, and we will create a very clear exception catalogue, which includes, among other things, those areas that have so far only been mentioned in the explanatory remarks. For example, we will also take out the resistance to state power in a specific way in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am very glad that we have also enshrined in the agreement something about the protection of society from dangerous perpetrators. We will extend the catalogue of special measures with a view to the danger of perpetrators. I believe that the population also sees this as it is: that, after the punishment is cancelled, dangerous perpetrators should not be released into society again without either caring for them in therapy or leaving them in action, because it is not acceptable for the population to bring them back into society. New – and this would never have been possible with our previous partner, because the woman's minister said: "only about my body" – is the common obsorable if both parents want this. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This shared care is desired by many parents! Mrs Mertel! You can't strip off parenting through divorce, you always stay parents, even after divorce. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where are the divorced fathers?]] We do not understand that then, if both parents want the common care if they want to agree, the legislator absolutely forbids it. We have no understanding of this! We will make this common care possible. [[Abg. Silhavy: If both agree, they will be without legislation, Mrs Colleague!]] A broad chapter is also devoted to living. In the meantime, the housing market allows us to use the competition to reduce the cost of living. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We currently find costs in the residential area disproportionately in terms of operating costs. They are now taxing people much more than the rents, and there is something to be done in the future, so that energy companies or urban or municipal suppliers do not make any basket money at the expense of the tenants. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: privileges for large-current customers!]] On the one hand, we want a transparent operating cost calculation. There is an ÖNORM, Mrs Lichtenberger, and this ÖNORM is a single system. If everyone calculates the operating costs after that, transparency alone gives a comparability, so that you can compare who makes a basket money and who does not. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is interesting! We know them, these ÖNORMs!]] This also includes the reform of the Home Care Act. Of course, we need to standardize transitional provisions, but it cannot be the case that home providers' privileges result in the provision of housing facilities becoming almost unfinancingable. There is also a very ambitious project that we have undertaken in corporate law. We want transparency, harmonisation and simplification in a re-codification, that is, in a summary of all areas of legislation, in particular the HGB and the trade regulations. So we want to have a re-codification of a general entrepreneurship right, which is then applicable to all self-employed, general provisions, for example, on the start of entrepreneurship, on company, on business formalities, on business names, on simplifications in registration and so on. Entrepreneurship law has already been unified in Germany, and we should also go this way, summarising the general provisions of the HGB, the general provisions of the Commercial Code or also the Accounting Act, so that someone who wants to make himself independent has all this together in a single law. At all events, the judicial chapter has devoted very wide scope to economic law. We will continue to develop antitrust law, combat abuse in insolvency law, extend publication obligations to modern electronic media, and, above all, we will strive to ensure that EU directives are implemented in economic law as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You can start with the Austrian advertising right now!]] I am very confident that in the field of justice, constructive work will continue in the judicial committee, including the opposition parties as before. As committee chairman, I offer this cooperation – as in the past – to the new opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17927	Mr Martin Bartenstein spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e17951	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! My dear colleagues on the government bank! High house! Today, in a press conference on the current government programme, the Industrial Union has commented and has meant that they themselves, as well as abroad, investors and partners abroad, would have a positive impact on this government programme and would have benefits for Austria's location. As a future "Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour" after the present political will, I feel to be a very high-level Minister of State and therefore I am pleased to be able to report to the House that, in all the savings and in all cases, we will consolidate what is necessary to ensure the location of Austria, in order to secure its jobs offensive measures, especially in reducing labour costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These are offensive measures, which will mean that we will reduce labour costs by 2003 and thus additional labour costs by no less than 15 billion schilling – in terms of additional wage costs, this is about minus 2 percent. This is a one-time step, and we are confident that we can also achieve this objective, which was also agreed with the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, Mrs Hostasch's criticism was that this merger of labour market and economic agents should be carried out in a Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. I think this is due to an overcrowded and no longer right cliché, which reads as follows: Economics is equal to employers, these are entrepreneurs, and work and social affairs belong together, those are the workers. No, ladies and gentlemen! Location policy and labour market policy are in fact not separate, and I say that modern labour market policies are more related to economic policy than to social policy. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The Federal Ministry Act, which will shortly be available to the House for decision – the proposal for initiative has already been submitted – will reflect this. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the programme in the field of economics is based on three principles: We want to liberalize, we want to democratize and we want to privatize. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to democratize in the sense of deregulation, and we want to privatize, in an area that I do not want to call in Austria as a nationalized industry – that is the past – but to privatize mainly in the field of ÖIAG, in a way that takes into account the local interests of Austria and which in many cases should leave the decision on the basis of mandatory syndications in Austria. We want to pursue a privatisation strategy, which ultimately corresponds to what is considered appropriate in Europe today, whether it is still in public ownership or not. I mean, the time of the red and white tail fins is over. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, we want to liberalize energy where we want to take further steps to offer Austria's electricity customers, but also Austria's gas customers cheaper electricity, cheaper gas. We want to liberalize to the extent that the directives of the European Union provide for this, but in addition to that, in order to speed up the timetables there. A particular role, a special role, will play or take into account the social partners in the future. Due to the changed political conditions, due to the other structure in the government, new land will be to be entered here, but take me as a guarantee that I will strive for strength and, as far as it stands in my power, to continue to help the social partners to be of value to them. The social partners are right to have an excellent reputation in this country, the social partners perform many tasks, and the social partners should continue to be a partner of the government in dealing with economic interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: Ask the liberals if they want to!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide that in the area of responsibility for the labour market in this country, for employment, for the number of workers, but also for the reduction of unemployment in that country, I find a good heritage. I expressly thank you for the achievements that have been done in the past under the leadership of Lore Hostasch. It is good to know that we have made the trend change in this country, a trend change that is now going through all the population groups and, above all, that is very important to me, through all age groups, because the older workers are already going down with the unemployment figures. That's good and right. In this area I would like to insist on continuity, I would like to continue the National Plan for Employment, and I am sure that I can count on your agreement here in the House in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The main areas of the labour market chapter have already been found in a similar form in the unsigned agreement with the Social Democrats. Even here, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, it will be so that we want to keep this programme as a mirror and you must be aware that if you practice harsh criticism of what we are planning, you may then be able to recognize yourself in this mirror and then meet this criticism yourself. I'm sure you don't want to. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. "Work Minister", is that already existing?]] Mrs Mertel, I have already mentioned this: The Federal Ministry Act will be available in its recast to the House soon to decide, and then we will have implemented it. Ladies and gentlemen! One last point: I am pleased that our new State Secretary, Mares Rossmann, was able to take a seat on the government bank today. She will be responsible for tourism in my home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This so important part of the economy for Austria will need intensive care in the coming weeks and months. The new Secretary of State is a woman who has political experience but also understands the business and has already created a lot as an innkeeper. It will certainly also make a political contribution to this tourism secretariat. I'm looking forward to it, and I hope you're happy with me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The "Austrian Advertising" will thank you!]] One last, not out of my position as Minister of Economic Affairs, but as the one who was allowed to negotiate the family part as a divorced family minister: Mr Brosz! What you have reported in your remarks is borne by ignorance – I can say with all my reluctance – that your claim, Mr. Colleague, that the new regulation of the care allowance for all, the childcare allowance, would only break something on its own. Do you know which population group brings the most? – The single-schooler! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] At least once, they have been given the opportunity to care for their child for 24 months, to receive this childcare allowance and then to go back to work under reasonable circumstances or, if it is necessary, of course to use special emergency aid. It is a continuity and an extension of the possibilities for single parents who have not yet been available in this form. So stifle They're not on political clichés and enemy images. It's not the single earners, it's not the families in which both parents are there to care for, but it's the only ones we want to help and help with this new regulation of child care money – I think it's a family-political quantum leap. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18072	The next speaker was Mr Caspar.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18105	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have hoped that the Federal Chancellor would also receive my words, but I will also know them so. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's been sitting here all day!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by saying at least that I very much agree with the introduction, with what the Federal Chancellor said today at the beginning of his speech. The only amazing thing, Mr Khol, is that your coalition partner might not have done so, otherwise it would not have been that, for example, Mr Fischl and Mr Gaugg had expressed very strong criticism of the conditions which the Federal Chancellor felt were as beneficial. I think you should still be aware of whether this is a government or whether one half is ruling and the other half operates opposition. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of the start of your government, Austria has indeed been an internationally recognized small country which has found its own way of positioning itself in the world, and which has found its own way of going through a peaceful and economically extremely successful development. We owe this to a policy that has taken care not to increase the distance between the top and the bottom, between the poor and the rich, we owe it to a policy that has set itself on social integration, a policy in which people have been able to rely on the fact that they are not pushed to the edge and are simply forgotten there, a policy for the people who have taken courage and given them security. That was the Austrian success path, and this Austrian success path was, moreover, internationally embedded and recognized by the dedicated foreign policy in previous years under the sign of an active neutrality policy. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Caspar One stands deep down in the seventies! With both feet in the 1970s!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! That was the way among socially democratically led governments. But now, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you, ÖVP and FPÖ, obviously want to change everything together. They're not in office for a week and they're in front of a sniper of foreign policy. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is the Mr. Klima? Where is the old Federal Chancellor climate?]] They are not in office for a week and must be kept by your party friend Worm – today in "NEWS" – that the ÖVP, the former economic party, stands in front of a scrapping pile of economic policy. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] You are not yet in office for a week, and we are already getting to know your understanding of "parliamentaryism by the majority". This too is an interesting perception. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's where the chickens laugh!]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: This is right-wing conservative!]] According to your words, however, according to the words of the Federal Chancellor, even I could almost believe that we are on the best way to Paradise. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You've thrown that around 10 s!]] Only I can't believe your English words, for that the words were a little too smooth. And: I have read the Coalition Pact before I heard the words from the Intergovernmental Bank, and this coalition agreement shows very clearly that you are on top of it, to lift out the most important points of the Austrian success story. And you call it new government! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! You plan the most massive redistribution in the history of Austria from below to top, from the poor to the rich, by taking money out of your hands directly to the workers, to the future pensioners and, in part, to the people already in retirement, in order to pass it on to the entrepreneurs! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You should be able to read!]] They want to pooren the poor again and make the rich even richer. And that's what you call the new way of governing! Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In your government statement, you claim from the government bank that you want the rents and the electricity price to fall, but lift the rents in the old building massively and immediately exploit the electricity by 10 sizes per kilowatt hour, which will cost every Austrian household a few hundred schillings a year. They reduce workers' protection so that it is not as difficult for entrepreneurs as it is so beautiful in your coalition agreement on page 20. They are intensifying the situation for people who have lost their jobs due to company collapses or structural change in the rapidly changing economic environment. And that's what you call social justice! They allow you to introduce self retention of up to 20 percent in health insurance. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This can ruin sick people economically and above all older people! And that's what you call the new way of governing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! It's obviously not enough with that. They praise solidarity in Austria, but They are working to break their foundations. They want workers no longer to be able to rely on the common basis of trade unions. Entrepreneurs will thank you. The question is, have you ever thought about the employees? They want to eliminate legal interests from political participation and transform them into legal advisory and service agencies, and you seem to think that at least these representations of interest should give the workers some money if you already take the money out of their pockets. – A "fine" policy you have agreed and taken into consideration! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! The damage you have already done in foreign policy is great. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Who did it?]] But They also want to continue there and leave the successful way of Austria for the benefit of NATO membership. Can you tell me a single example in history that people in this country have had an advantage of hearing a large military block? When was this an advantage for Austria and the people living in that country? In the monarchy? In the Third Reich? Do you remember another example of where that was great? – But you want to go there! Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats have very consciously not sought a pact with the FPÖ and have not concluded a pact with the FPÖ because we do not want to have anything to do with humane policies. [[Abg. Neudeck: You tried!]] [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] The SPÖ was ready – I admit, Mr. Non-Mehr-da-Minister Bartenstein – to enter into negotiations with you, the ÖVP, up to the border of self-achievement in order to prevent this policy from being made from the government bank, and we have now taken place in the opposition banks. We will, we can promise you, make a very committed opposition policy, and we will show what alternatives there are to your policy: better alternatives in the interests of people. [[Abg. Wattaul: Class fight!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally also dear Austrians! However, the external political damage already done by the accession of the FPÖ is a "learcherl" against the damage that this government intends to do domestically. Gentlemen from the government bank! Ladies from the government bank! They know what it seems – at least that was the result of the German Chancellor's declaration of government – what the success of Austria has been. But now you are going to see the eyes to tear down society! They know that consensus, which has awarded the Second Republic so far, has also been a consensus on the basis of the organizations that have created themselves. – And you are sending to ruin these institutions! Ministers and ministers! We Socialists will face this policy of your government with all democratic means, because it threatens the peace of society and thus the prosperity and economic development of this country. And we will help those who have to pay the price of this adventure and fight for their interests.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18349	The next speaker is Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18374	Mr President. Dear Federal Government! Dear Minister! High house! I am very glad that today's debate has also been broadcast on Austrian television in full length, and I believe that the Austrian population has been able to take a very good picture of where truly consensus-ready forces sit and where not. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm convinced of that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am also very glad that some of the speakers from the socialist camp have been found demasked. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, yes!]] I don't mean one of my colleagues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of this, and he has always acted as he has done today. I am somewhat disappointed by Mr Schlögl. [[Abg. Edlinger: Thank God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But it is probably a knighting around the party chair, and it is obvious that if a political party loses the leader's head – in this case, the party president, because he is no longer willing or unable to follow a political debate anymore – then, if a political party loses the leader's head – and then, of course, one tries to overtake the other in the respective camps. You've seen that clearly today. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I don't want to hide here. When Mr. One spoke of the "shearing pile" of political activity and referred to the essential points of the Austrian "success story", one can quote some points from it – of course, of course, in recent years. For one thing, it is a success for you, the Social Democrats and Socialists, it has obviously not been a success. I am speaking to only a few "successful chapters" of state management: "Consum", Waagner Biró, "VorweiterVerlag", "Worker-Zeitung", nationalized industry – a "success story" of the Socialist Party in the last ten to 15 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwemlein: You also have a success!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: FPÖ-Nederösterreich, flat cooperative!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Rosenstingl!]] But we don't have to go back that far. We only need to look at who the state rulers have been in recent years. [[Abg. Edellinger: Rosenstingl!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Rosenstingl!]] Let us just look at the success story of the political activity of the Federal Minister Caspar Einm. [[Abg. Edlinger: Rosenstingl failed!]] Let us take a very close look at them and take a short look at them: Increased as a Secretary of State for Officials. He tried to gain high reputation when he wanted to bring in a federal employment law. - He failed. But instead of being sent back to where they came from, he picked up the career leaders. He has become the Federal Minister of the Interior and failed to do so. Finally, he has instrumentalized a whole political place, namely the internal political department, in all his activity against a political party, against a competitor, against the Freedom Party. Mr President, you have failed to do so and have finally been praised out of this office. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have become Federal Minister of Science and also failed. As early as the first days, you have both spiritually and physically approved and have been withdrawn. What's left? – The top policy in the university. That's what you'll go into history with. They failed with that too. As the Federal Minister for Transport, you have achieved a unique performance at all. You have been the first Federal Minister of the Second Republic – I have looked into it, and you will give me the right, Mrs Mertel – who has not carried out a government proposal, namely the presentation concerning the 0.5-promille limit. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why? Do you need my consent?]] That's what you failed with. The only thing you've pursued in this office was finally to satisfy the Baulobby in the enforcement of the Semmering Base Tunnel. And that's what you're going to fail to do – in retrospect. Now send yourself to become SPÖ Chairman. Given your political success, I can only say: Good night, SPÖ! They'll probably fail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are addressing the internal and external affairs of the people, Mr One, I expect Members of this House, the Socialists and the Greens, to go out of here once and to dissociate themselves from such hatreds. It is unique in the Second Republic that interviews in foreign and domestic media can call for the murder of a politician in this country. [[Call the SPÖ: Who says that?]] I quote: "I think you should shoot Haider." [[New calls at the SPÖ:Who says something like that?]] – The Kabarettist Grissemann, here in this newspaper. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date.]] [[Call at SPÖ:Grissemann is a liberal federal council!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Grissemann is a FPÖler!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: ( towards SPÖ) So you don't mind!]] What do you say? "Someone who has only two months left to live," says Kabarettist and ORF Blödler Christoph Grissemann in an interview..." – Please, a little serious about this matter would be appropriate. [[Abg. Edlinger: Can you tell us what this has to do with us?- Oh, my God!]] "And the "Austrian in itself" says Grissemann is a "irresistible" – and now I do not quote him, I only call the first letter – "A..." I'll tell you: If it is so far that the Austrian occupation becomes a tradition, then in itself it is really fire on the roof, then all the political forces must stick together so that this cannot happen in Austria. The Berliner "taz" writes: "You can talk about Haider, you can't talk to Haider – unless you want to use him. The only table to be seen with Haider is the obduct table on which he lies." I really think that is the most objectionable thing I have ever experienced in my political life: that a political competitor is declared a free will in Germany and abroad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is high time all political forces distance themselves from such calls for violence, including in their sections. We could read it in the press. There, too, we sometimes think of taking the weapon to lead the political debate. [[Abg. Worse: Na bravo! Now we know!]] – They say: Bravo!Unknown term I hope that will not take place in Austria. We are all called upon to distance ourselves from such measures and actions.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18718	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18740	Mr President. – Ah, the government bank is not quite empty, the rulers have just collapsed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Three government members!]] – Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Graf for his statement, because he is doing so, he is simply proving the reality that says: The FPÖ is the FPÖ! Dot, out, Amen! That's how it's done. It's useless. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This truly heart-powered, this really authentic, this really, you can say, with leg and stone on the old program and in the old style sworn "F", which is holding reality, simple and simple reality. – Now no more ÖVP ministers are sitting on the government bank. [[Call the Freeman: Take a look at the other side!]] – Minister, I said. The only real motive I can put to the ÖVP is that it went to the government with a "F" at all – I would like to say the completely de-escaling, quite objectively – is the motive that it wants to enchant Haider that she wants to blaze the "F" that she wants to test the liberals in a test. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You "moss" again today!]] But listen to that! Look at this! Mr. Graf goes hunting for people, he hunts Mr. Dr. One and sometimes hunts people whose names he does not even mention. Please quote, but you should tell me what you're quoting from and who's meant and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: "New Volksblatt"!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's an ÖVP newspaper, isn't it?]] That would be a very correct new style. But you insist in the old style, and in so far, I believe, the hope of the ÖVP is really in vain in the running process. We've heard one nail sample after another today. There were many speakers from this side who contributed to escalating, there were many speakers from the other side at the word, who also had something escalated, but always took the tone back, and I also want to belong to them. That is why I would like to refer once again to an objective dialogue, which unfortunately threatens to become a monologue in view of the absence of the Minister for Agriculture. He meant that we should also run a constructive policy as an opposition and come into conversation with him. You are welcome, Mr Not Present Minister for Agriculture. – Perhaps Mr Schwarzböck can take over this. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: I'm directing it to him!]] If it is said that the achievement, especially the environmental achievement of Mr Molterer's minister, was that he had made the principle of sustainability Europe-wide in agriculture permanent and common, then I must say at the same time that it was only recently, namely on 31 December. The European nitrates directive has not been complied with. – and pointed out that the action programme for the protection of groundwater in Austria in this form, as published in the Vienna newspaper, is not correct. The EU demands that we anchor this legislative action plan to integrate it into water law. - It didn't happen. We were cheated. Unfortunately, Mr Molterer's wonderful sustainability approach also reveals itself. He's not relevant, he's not useful. We know that the Action Plan itself is taking a lot, far too short. It is a fact – including an objective statement, also in your direction, which I will come back to – that in Upper Austria alone, 66 000 people have drinking water, which is burdened with the fact that in Lower Austria, 134 000 people have drinking water, which is taxed and dangerous to health for infants. This is the result of our so-called sustainable agricultural policy! – This is what I put here in the space as an objective, serious criticism. Now the objectively serious criticism in your direction. They have been put to the election, and again and again as a voice tube of the "little" man – I say now probably also the "little" woman, because you are polite – and have always represented citizens' initiatives, have tried again and again to ensure that initiatives find more restraint and more hearing. And what do you read in the government statement now? What can be read in the Coalition Convention? . Certain opportunities in the Committee on Petitions are to be improved and some consideration should be taken, including concerns of citizens' initiatives. But where the substance is concerned, namely in the commercial regulations or in the plant law, it says: We want to speed up, we want to simplify! In the EIA, I think, about the following terminology is used: We want to scramble or relax or definitely bacon. With this government agreement, they have already pushed a pillar of citizens' initiative rights, an essential foundation of citizens' initiative rights, namely what they have in their party position in the EIA. They have announced that the EIA is very much simplified by baconing, smearing and so on. This will go in the direction that citizens' rights will be circumcised. I'm curious! The payday will be in 2003 at the latest. I am curious about how you, as the party of the "little" man or the "little" woman, will then represent this plant-oriented, economic-oriented policy. This will be an important nail sample! I am curious about whether you will then be as good as Mr Graf's today as you will be with regard to style, seriosity and de-escalation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18850	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e18871	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, Molterer is known in Europe as the Minister for Agriculture, who has made Austrian agriculture the most environmentally friendly agriculture in all EU countries. We are the European champions in the EU. At least half the area of the European organic farmers lies in Austria. It is seen that Molterer has set an essential focus in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But not for long! Everyone give up!]] We are also the only of the 15 EU countries in which the ÖPUL programme, an environmental programme, is offered across the board. This is also our foreign exchange: Precaution is better than cure afterwards! We are trying through this environmental programme to take precautions for groundwater protection so that there is no more damage. The Water Protection Report, which we discussed in the Committee on Agriculture last week, shows that the biggest deterioration has occurred in the state of Vienna. I am pleased that the biggest improvements in this area have been recorded in the Federal State of Salzburg, at least for the period covered by the Water Protection Report. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already experienced the sixth declaration of government here and I must say: As quickly as this time, in a week's time, ministers have never developed into fundamental oppositionists! At all events, climate has preferred to stay away from Parliament. Today, however, we have already heard four climate successors: Klubobmann Kostelka, former Minister Schlögl, former Minister Edlinger and former Minister One. But I have to say: The most serious of all was the ex-finance minister Edlinger. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Your list is incomplete! Minister Prammer is part of that too!]] – But she is not seen as coming party president, as crown princess. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why not? But that is discriminatory!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before the government was given the opportunity to present itself to Parliament, there has never been a request for distrust. It has never been the case that, on the day of the debate on the Declaration of Government, a urgent question has been put, since it is possible to discuss all the issues in this debate anyway. I think the words of former Finance Minister Edlinger are correct in that he stated at the beginning of his debate: The structure of the Government Convention is wise. I thought the People's Party wanted to negotiate honestly with us. – We really did negotiate honestly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] ==References====External links== Januarys accepted 23 members of this program, and there were only 4 votes against. At the time, it was said that the SPÖ Bureau would also have voted unanimously in favour of this programme. That is why we were already somewhat surprised when a few days later it was said that there was no majority in the party board and that is why climate broke down the government negotiations. Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! Something wasn't quite all right: They drew the comparison with the sausage eaten by the dog in 2 minutes. [[Abg. Edlinger: Not even 2 minutes!]] I have to remind you: In the 55 years of the Second Republic, there have been ÖVP Finance Ministers for 25 years. During these 25 years of the construction phase, a total debt of 45 billion schillings had been created. In the 30 years with SPÖ finance ministers a debt of 1,600 billion schilling has arisen. So there's already an obvious difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. The comparison is not serious!]] That's why you can almost say: Just as the dog can watch the sausage, so the SPÖ Finance Ministers have taken care of the Austrian budget! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Another one. In the discussion, former Minister Schlögl complained that, during a parliamentary session, precautions should be taken such as a ban mile. I've got to say, He's supposed to ask who calls again and again for demonstrations. I have here a fax from the Socialist Trade Union Party: Dear comrades! ==References== He's ready for demonstrations. Signature: National councillor Pendl Otto. – That the National Councillors of the SPÖ call on the trade unionists to demonstrate during the plenary sessions, and then complain that the demonstration is being demonstrated is already evidence of a great doubling! [[Abg. Swimmling: And how was it that you marched with your peasants?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: There's no one marched! The servants were sitting on the tractors and the farmers were driving the Mercedes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will now turn to the government programme. "Rerule Austria" is the motto of the new Federal Government. The new Federal Government, with German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, expressly confesses itself – as it stands inside – to a rurally structured, land-based agriculture in Austria. This objective also takes account of the measures in the government programme. Agriculture still provides 660 000 jobs in Austria in the supranational and downstream areas. That's 20 percent of all jobs in Austria. That is why we should also give this sector the appropriate value. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, safeguarding these jobs is a priority for us here in the House. In the first place, it is about the implementation of the Agenda 2000. Here rural development is integrated into Austria. So we have opportunities that we should benefit from. I was pleased to note that 10 percent of the funds for integrated rural development, which the EU can make available over the next seven years, are reserved for Austria. We can pick up 5.8 billion schilling there each year if we face the necessary co-financing. This co-financing is guaranteed in accordance with the current Government Agreement. [[Abg. Edlinger: That was already!]] – Yes, I admit that, even after the agreement with the SPÖ, this funding was guaranteed. However, it was not possible with the SPÖ to bring about the same competitive conditions for operating resources with the other 14 EU countries. This was only possible in the negotiations with FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Every schilling, which goes from the EU or Austria to the farmers, flows in several ways immediately back into investment. Agriculture has invested around 30 billion schilling annually in recent years. This is much more than all the EU funding and support of the federal and state states together. This has ensured a lot of jobs in rural areas. Something was also possible in the negotiations with the FPÖ: that we clean up the blatant disadvantages that agriculture had to face over and over again in the social field, for example in the fictitious exodus, where it really hits the poorest of the poor. With the SPÖ it was not possible to achieve an improvement, but the FPÖ was willing to carry it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Even in those areas of agriculture where there were very obvious differences, such as occupational protection, we were able to achieve equality with other professional groups. I would like to say: The more whirlwind it causes in Parliament, the more it is broadcast on television, the more the population in us will see the stable factor of this republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19037	Deputies! The speaking time would be over. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19052	Today's "NEWS": Who do you prefer as chancellor? – Already 28 percent want bowls, only 17 percent climate, and the others are substantially behind them. This means that the population is already responding. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what I'm gonna end up with. I am of the opinion that: This programme, which we have been able to agree with FPÖ, will also be the basis for agriculture in the future in such a way that all farmers who want to stay.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19085	The new Federal Minister for Justice, Dr. Michael Krüger, has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19110	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Having now heard with joy, in what comprehensive form, Mr Schwarzenberger has agreed with my colleague Anna Elisabeth Aumayr, after I have experienced the evaluations or, as is now said, the evaluation of the young speakers of former SPÖ government members, also through colleagues Schwarzenberger, we can quietly turn to the judicial chapter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang Schüssel said today in the government statement: New governance means creating the greatest possible security. As a Member of Parliament, I have repeatedly said that the foundation of our rule of law is a functioning jurisdiction. Another foundation of our rule of law is confidence in the peace of law. This legal peace is only maintained if there is the greatest possible security. However, the greatest possible security exists only if appropriate penalties are threatened, imposed and executed. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has repeatedly been accused of representing a law-and-order policy. In this context, the Austrian People's Party has often spoken of "zero tolerance". I should like to remind my colleagues from Social Democracy, colleagues from my colleagues – tomorrow I will withdraw my mandate – that it is not only a liberal demand and also an EIA requirement to see the Law-and-order committed, but also an old social democratic demand. Does your Tony Blair in England also have the elections – but I even believe: above all – with the principle "Law and order is a labour issue!" [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the field of internal security, we put the emphasis on the fight against organised crime, drug crime and tow-freeness, said the Federal Chancellor. Indeed, drug crime, ladies and gentlemen, is very worrying. For example, if one can read in the "Kurier" that the street trade in drug crime is dominated mainly by Nigerian drug mafia, then we have to be concerned and then we have to remedy it. But: We must also make those black fellow citizens in this country, who are committed to the rule of law, feel that we are on their side if they are vilified by generalization against the black drug mafia. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Say that to Mrs. Pablo!]] The subject of drug crime brings me to a disversion. I have already wondered in the discussion during the past legislative period how very serious crimes of drug crime have been made disversionable. For example, I cannot explain why trade in drugs should be subject to the so-called limit. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not understandable. It is not understandable why people who seduce others, especially young people, make it dependent, bring to the needle only because they happen to have a small amount of intoxication, fall into the diversion and may be able to remain impunity. There, ladies and gentlemen, it must be done. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Fekter has already partly referred to the joint programme, which is the result of the division. I believe that we can at least meet with the social-democratic ideas of the social-democratic judicial speaker Hannes Jarolim, who in the entire debate on the division has repeatedly said that the division is only in light of guilt. Mr Jarolim! I remember that there is something else in the law. The law states: The debt must not be difficult. And between mild debt and not heavy debt, there is still the area, as I mentioned it, of normal debt, and that is where it is to be assumed. We have nothing against the division, if it is used reasonably in a certain context, and one of these reasonable cases of application can only be in the event of minor guilt. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the field of economic criminal law, we have also seen the reform committed to Krida's right to justice. We believe that the negligent Krida should be removed in general. As an economist, I can tell you that the main beneficiaries of such procedures were the experts. Well, I have nothing against the fact that experts get a lot of money; but for someone who can't take away anything else, who's in bankruptcy who's accused of the negligent Krida, because he's probably filed for insolvency at three months too late, then gets an opinion that costs the Republic of Austria, in the absence of surrender to the accused, 2 or 3 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen, the population has no understanding! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Do you think the Rostingl?]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the other hand, however, we are concerned with an intensification of the fraudulent Krida. Indeed, it was in practice so that the prosecutors and courts for fear of not carrying out the fraudulent Krida in the indictment have turned aside to the negligent Krida. There can't be that. If someone commits fraudulent Krida, he has to be punished for it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I come to another area of economic law, insolvency law. In recent years or decades, however, in recent years, there have been shortcomings in insolvency law. I have experienced this on several occasions as a lawyer and can only marvel at how some insolvency proceedings were handled by the courts. I don't generalise here. I believe that 95 percent of all bankruptcy judges in Austria do really excellent work, but I do not understand that the shareholders of an insolvency company move the company’s headquarters to the private house one week before the opening, thereby reaching a certain court appeal, reporting insolvency and buying all the assets of the old company at liquidity values with the collecting company consisting of members of the familia suspecta, after the bankruptcy court has decided to liquidation for the legal second and could therefore be bought purely formally at liquidity values and not to continuation values as it would have actually been fair. Ladies and gentlemen! I kindly ask for an understanding of the need to remedy the coalition in this regard. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Civil law: As far as the publication obligations of large companies with limited liability are concerned, I believe that the legislator here poured out the child with the bath when he took the corresponding EU directive far too strictly into Austrian law. This EU directive has a creditor protection in mind. That is to say, if the creditors look into the company's book when they put on the "Wiener Zeitung", they should obtain some transparency about someone they supply, for example. We have nothing against it at all. But we have something against the fact that, especially in the age of Merger Mania, the large trading chains, whose there are less and less, bring the producers to themselves and say: According to the balance sheet published in the company book or in the official "Wiener Zeitung" and after the profit and loss account, you have a raw income that is not appropriate, and therefore you have to reduce the prices accordingly. - Do we want that? - I think that's a mistake. We can create other instruments so that the creditors are naturally protected. As the first discussion approach, I suggest that the profit and loss accounts are no longer subject to publication – the asset comparison yes. The asset comparison is meaningful enough. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I come to a political slogan that FPÖ has repeatedly needed in recent years. I recall the tragic case of Karl Otto Haas, who was to be dismissed by those mentally abominable rightbreakers, and who, in the course of this release, Bestially murdered the son of his former companion. By the way, he was seriously injured by a spiritual dignitary on the run. At that time, the claim was raised: It's supposed to stay for life. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't make a murderer's pit from my heart, and don't expect the FPÖ and also the ÖVP – especially the FPÖ – to leave this slogan. Let's live for life, but: Life-long does not have to stay alive in all cases! We liberals feel that we are committed to human rights, and human rights are – as is generally said – indivisible. I refer to the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe of 21 January. June 1977, in which the Federal Constitutional Court declared that a lifelong punishment is written on the cell door "Strafende: "Death" and in which the condemned culprit cannot even have a minimum spark hope that he will ever leave the detention centre alive is illegal to human rights. We also insist that this is illegal, because it is inhuman, which violates human rights. That is why we say: It's supposed to stay for life. Under humanitarian circumstances, if any danger to the security of our citizens is excluded, if other elements are added, such as a higher age or great accident in our own family, for these cases, we can, if there is no longer any residual risk to society, of course imagine that a conditional release after 15 years will also take place for so-called life-long ones. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the Government Declaration it is written: A new company law must create simplifications for current professional rights such as tax advisors, lawyers and doctors. – I turn to the stand I belong to, the lawyer. I am not suffering from stand-darkness, and I believe that the lawyer's office and her representation in recent years have not always done everything right. That's what I want to do. There are very modern country chambers, to which I would count, from my point of view, the Vienna Bar Association, which has a very modern president who said in his address of entry: In disciplinary law, you have to clean it up with stupidities – as he expressed himself, I quote it here. Because it can't be that because of any nullities and trifles – because you may have looked at the judge wrong – there is a disciplinary procedure. One thing, however, can certainly not be any more in the future – if I, as the Minister of Justice, accuse the Austrian People's Party, then I am sure that I find its understanding, but, as I believe, also the understanding of fellow Members Jarolim – that in a disciplinary procedure the own Chamber of State decides on errors of the member. Imagine: We have 3 000 lawyers in Austria. There are only a few – a few dozen – lawyers, for example, in Burgenland and Vorarlberg. It can be, please, not so that your own chamber then makes a decision about the colleague who knows – whether he is with good feelings or whether one is facing him with negative judgment. There can be no such thing, ladies and gentlemen. We will also make a change. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What is the need for this change? – In this case, the lawyers at the court can take an example: There it is that immediately another explosive is responsible if there is a disciplinary procedure against a judge, so that the iniquities can be ruled out from the outset. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and also of the Freedom Party! We've done a lot – what I've mentioned is just a small section. I intend to go into Austrian judicial history as Minister for Reform. I'll invite you to help me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19246	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I call on the next speaker, I would like to announce a short interval: We're holding 42 of the speeches and we still have 36 in front of us. The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Ilse Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19274	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister and Members of Parliament! Becoming Me as a Carinthian They allow a brief look at eleven years of Carinthian history. With a vote result of 47 percent for the SPÖ, the second strongest party has placed the head of state in the person of Mr. Haider. After two years of suffocating over "order employment policy", the smallest party then appointed the head of state. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about Mr. Workers?]] For a number of years, beneficiaries were ÖVP and Mr Zernatto. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The SPÖ has lost Mr. Workers and received them again!]] At the federal level, we now have the situation that the second smallest party – you also have a charming, Mr. Ex-GAK President!Use custom fonts; [[Abg. Fischl: This is a charming debate!]] Grazer, Steirer we understand a little bit harder, but please let me have my speaking time! – the chancellor. After listening to the two government parties for almost twelve hours today, and especially the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I must say that you all suffer from a certain loss of reality, especially if you speak of three equally large parties with a difference of 13 mandates between the SPÖ and the FPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is just a question of time!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: They also count on the Federal Council!]] I am also surprised to hear that Mr Bundeskanzler and the ÖVP are constantly saying how surprised and how amazed they are about the image that the government is creating in the EU and internationally. I can only say that your pictures are confused. There is a self-image, there is a foreign image, but you live – it seems – in a dream picture! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] As far as you are concerned, I have to keep it with Karl Kraus – you know his statement –: When the sun of culture is deep, dwarfs also cast long shadows. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] When considering why SPÖ has not entered the government, I can only repeat: Because you've been negotiating on the part of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who? With whom?]] I'll confirm that. Mr. Alfred Worm – who is common to you –, editor in "profile", has in the Ö3 radio show "Breakfast with me" – not with me, but with the editor – on Sunday, 6th. Feber, the following irreconcilable statement [[Abg. Böhacker: Was he there? Was he involved in the negotiations?]] [[Abg. Fischl: And that's true with you?- Oh, my God!]] He has pointed out that he has already lost thousands of complaints and advertisements and has only lost three processes. Then he said he was already on the 11th. December received a call from a high-ranking politician from Styria, who said: Both the programme and the ministerial list. – That’s what the ÖVP is about. Because in December, you were still eagerly negotiating with us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I continue to hear how the ÖVP is constantly considering why the SPÖ has not come along, I can only say that the FPÖ is simply second choice! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] – You have the right to speak, but not the right to interrupt me, because this is a house of parliamentarians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If I look at the handling of the ÖVP with the truth and its promises, I have to say that Mr Morak is not even sitting here virtual again, for he has resigned, and Mrs Pecher too has resigned at the moment when the ÖVP came near the FPÖ. But something must have given the result to stay here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What does "virtual sitting" mean?]] Now to you, Mrs. Zierler: They are so mad at the editor of the "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" here. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Can you explain to me what "virtual sitting" means?]] I'm just wondering: Not in "n-tv" Mr. Haider announced that he would once stand up for Mr. Marshal? [[Abg. May. Trattner: Explain "virtual sitting" once!]] - I don't know what to do now. As far as your women's policy is concerned, I would advise you to read on page 5 in the "profile" of last week. It says that everything is said about the content of your press releases. [[Abg. May. Trattner: We know 30 years of SPÖ women's policy! That's enough!]] Since we are constantly told that we are struggling with the separation from power and that we are frustrated, I must tell you one thing – read in an issue –: [[Abg. May. Trattner: I just need to see how you are frustrated! You're looking out for the frustration!]] In reality, we are emotionally relieved, psychologically relieved about finally being able to say what social-democratic policy is! In all the media, I hear Mr. Schüssel, even on television – up to the ARD, I don't get him out at all, I meet him everywhere – where he makes excuses and tells us that we should judge him after the program, speak and measure his actions. To do this, I have to say: We'll take him by the word. But since we have to say that all that is announced as a family policy and is to be sold as a family policy is hypocritical and defying! [[Abg. Böhacker: What's the secret?- Oh, my God!]] It is because only more freedom of choice is announced in the run-up, because it does not clarify how childcare places are financed, because the word "in-house educators" or "in-house teachers" does not appear in the programme at all and the problems are not addressed at all. What does a single parent do with a third year of absence of partner? [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: 24 months child care benefit!]] What does the "carriage money for all" bring to single parents, Mr. Minister of Labour? – A single parent who has only one income, a earnings of 13 000 s, and then only 6 250 s, has a significant income loss! They say she'll deserve to do this: But, please, she's got to look after the kid! [[Abg. May. Trattner: What do you want now? Make a suggestion! What do you want? Tell me!]] Your program is also defying. The true captain of your government ship sitting in Carinthia has already given you the direction. [[Abg. May. Trattner: I want to hear your constructive proposal for 10 years! Tell me what you want!]] He said that the "care money for all" or the childcare check brings a clear relief from the labour market! – This is to be read in your program – Haider is literally quoted. [[Abg. Aumayr: Are you now for an increase of the karenz money to two years or not?]] This is an blatant discrimination against women, and the diffamation he sends after it. He says literally: The more women choose to stay longer with their children thanks to the check, the more costs we save later for psychologists and psychiatrists who have to judge the children again. With the preparation of the child care check – that is, the election, but a real programme is not available in Carinthia – the current Social Minister, Mrs Sickl, has been commissioned. These were and are their only experiences in the social, female and family policy field, but we have seen today that it is the same thing to deal with. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is also a possibility!]] The child care check, the "carry money for all", the child education allowance, child care allowance – whatever you call it – is actually directed against the interests of women and the families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: We are still waiting for your announced childcare facilities!]] This babysitting check costs 8 billion Schilling more. That is to say, these will be out of the family compensation fund...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19617	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can point out your speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19632	... without income restrictions, redistributed from the workers to the self-employed and from the less well-earned women to the better-earned. The token for this must pay those who have to pay the contributions in the family compensation fund. Mr President. This is a voluntary speaking time! So I can stretch them as much as I want, but you can make me aware of that. I don't think I've already crossed. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But this is at the expense of the Members!]] I therefore believe – and I have to hold this position – that this is important, what the Federal Chancellor has said: Family policy is not women's policy! Therefore, the right to part-time work, the right to a childcare centre, the extension of the retention period after Karenz to 26 weeks, family-friendly working hours and targeted re-entry aid must be created. One thing to mention is: The funding of the childcare allowance remains completely enigmatic, completely enigmatic! Now to the final sentence: All you're presenting is a redistribution of low incomes to those with the highest incomes. Its objective is not to consolidate the budget, but simply to distribute gifts of money. You said we should take you to the floor and ask for the actions: We, the SPÖ, will not allow such actions to happen and will not demand action at all, because this would be a dangerous threat, namely a relief from entrepreneurs, the self-employed and the agricultural and forestry industries with 18.9 billion schilling and a burden on workers with 13.8 billion schilling!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19671	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Maximilian Hofmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19695	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not get away with it, but a little attention to the statements made by my predecessor, Mrs Mertel. You, Mrs Mertel, have a very limited memory, as I mean. It is obvious to you – and if so many years have passed – that it always happens to you to quote Haider's head of state, but you never come to the mind, for example, once Mr. Workers, who is a member of your socialist group and who has been taken up again, to quote that man who holds it with Goebbels, who has quoted Goebbels and has also called on him, has taken a corresponding bond with him. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. May. Worm: He was excluded!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is a shame!]] Mrs. Mertel! I think you are here in this House, in this parliamentary club, not the moral guardian. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No, no! I'll leave that to Mr. Khol! I don't do that!]] For who, like you, Mrs Mertel, to a poster of socialist youth, on which Bundesobmann Haider is pictured with a cross on the forehead and on which stands "shoot your shot", says: "This too is a possibility.", he can't use it for himself. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it! That's the truth!]] – Dear ladies and gentlemen! "This too is a possibility." - So Mr Mertel. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Praxmarer hit!]] I now allow myself to turn to the government programme and to draw up an interim report, so to speak, at a slightly advanced hour. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mrs. Praxmarer hit! Because of memory!]] The government programme has been presented, content has been presented and explained. There has been a wide variety of contributions to this, but one thing was clear: that the new opposition, the Social Democratic Party, with this new role is obviously very difficult to achieve. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But wonderful! You'll see if you have to vote with the ÖVP!]] Rerule what this reform coalition calls its government programme, obviously also means to you a new kind of opposition: Not 100 days to let the government work in peace. But that's not supposed to be the problem. Rather, your problem is that after 30 years of government power, you have to say goodbye to government activity and now have to take an unusual role, for you an unusual role, but it would be an important role, namely that of parliamentary opposition. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, you are afraid that this government will be able to show within a short period of time what positive changes it can make for this country, for this republic and its citizens. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: No!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Not at all! No fear at all!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr. Federal Minister other than Dienstlein Schlögl, in his contribution to the debate, stated that the Social Democrats will also be a state-bearing party in opposition – may it be a wish. It should be noted that you are to carry out this task, namely that of the opposition party. I hope that, although this is very difficult to understand from the current point of view, it is very difficult to see. This my impression is strengthened especially when I have been passing the last days: a mistrust request to a Federal Chancellor who has been in office for just four days at that time; a urgent request on the day of the Government Declaration; the debate on the Government Declaration is interrupted to send a request from the Federal Minister no longer in office for Hostasch, who has been in office for five days in the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Dr. Sickl. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're real victims! Right victim!]] All of this is no contradiction to the Rules of Procedure – that is not a question – but it is evident that you are obviously concerned with hindering this government as far as possible. It is obvious that the SPÖ and the Greens – with very few exceptions – are not about the content discussion of this programme. You have carried out a prejudgment, a prejudgment of this government programme at a time when you did not yet know it in terms of content! [[Abg. Shasching: Who is now whining?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who is whining?]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] You have continued this pre-conception, all the distorted, largely false representations to this day, ladies and gentlemen! Distorted, punctual false representations! Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs One speaks of a shredded pile of foreign policy and of a shredded pile of economic policy. – It is to be questioned: Who actually caused this sniper? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is a legitimate question!]] We will also clarify this, if your chairman, Mr Klima, is back here in this House and takes a position on all the accusations that have not been raised by the liberals – and you know that – but by the media. I hope that these accusations do not prove to be justified, although the suspicions are becoming increasingly harsh. An opposition party has several possibilities, ladies and gentlemen: An opposition party may make a constructive contribution. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You always did that! Always! Stadler was constructive!]] – Of course, we have shown you for years that you can discuss hard in the matter, have different attitudes, but you can do something on the content very well. As you as the government party have dealt with it, there is another matter. It is also striking, ladies and gentlemen, that you in almost a winery way are already complaining that you will receive templates and information too late. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dietachmayr]] [[Abg. The only tears that roll around out there are those of colleagues' head!]] But that will not be the style of this new government coalition. We know how you abused your power as a government party. We will embarrass you and will also take due account of the rights of the opposition and here ensure improvements, positive changes. The second possibility – it seems to me to be the better – in addition to the fundamental opposition you are currently focusing on, ladies and gentlemen, is constructive cooperation. I would therefore ask you not to continue pouring oil into the fire, but in the sense of our country and in the sense of our citizens here in this House constructively.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19958	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e19979	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Minister! Unfortunately, the Minister for Agriculture is no longer here in the hall; I am sorry! Mr Hofmann. We are very likely to have a green interest in the content of the discussion, and we are not afraid of this content discussion either! We lead them in this House, lead them to the point. Let us briefly consider the key statements of today's declaration of government and consider what the contents of this key statement are: You have put a motto ahead of your Government Declaration: "Rerule Austria." – This is not the case, however, as you have proved in the last two days. Her style is an old style we already know! I think it would be better and more correct to listen to my proposal, namely to rename the motto of "re-rule Austria" to "re-deregulate Austria". This is the real motto of your statement of Government, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not new either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mr Schweitzer! That's not new either! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How long have you been there? You can't know everything yet!]] This is not new, but it is old concepts which have already failed politically and economically in the UK and in other Western European countries and which are now to be implemented more intensively in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! That is the reality of this declaration of government, and we will point out this: today, tomorrow and in the next weeks and months! Your credo is deregulation. The content of this deregulation, namely, forced privatisation, social reduction and expansion of the rights of businesses at the expense of citizens, this New Deal, Mr. Westenthaler – who is not here now – you are talking about, serves the economically strong and powerful in this country! Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom you speak of, the freedom of state flaw and this greater self-responsibility and achievement are, of course, written to the strong and the virtuous on the body. That's clear. But where do the rights of the socially weak remain? Where do the objective rights of nature and environment remain? Where do civil society rights remain? Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol, who is not here now! Where do these civil society rights remain in your policy guidelines? – That is missing, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the clear signal you give! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to make a specific example of this on the basis of the section on agricultural policy. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here, but still the following: The orientation of the agricultural chapter is based on the ruling Agenda 2000 position and does not question liberalisation and world market orientation in the agricultural sector with a syllable. Not to mention the ecological objective: You're always talking about some eco-businesses. Mr Schwarzenberger! Bio-agriculture – you know that very well – has experienced a breakdown this year. At the end of the year, we have less than 1,000 organic farmers. That's not a secret. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because as a controller you are so unfairly controlling!]] You cannot claim here that you are pursuing a policy of ecologisation. The commitment to ecological agriculture is completely lacking! Organic farming does not occur in your program at all! The agricultural package does not aim at job security or the preservation of farms, ladies and gentlemen. The ecological and social design possibilities under the Agenda 2000 are not exploited. We will vote today on a motion for a resolution which does not come from our group, but which we have also supported in the Committee on Agriculture, namely, on a deadline for modulation, the possibility of shifting funding from market regulatory expenditure to environmental expenditure. That's what we Greens are doing. This is a concept for the future! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only then it has to be doubled by the national budget! You know that!]] – Of course, Mr Schwarzenberger! That's it! A saved schilling on the side of market spending means two shilling for the environment! That's the concept! That's ecological retranslation, and it's going off in your program! Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry! The new style of policy is that you did not agree in the Committee on Agriculture to discuss the new rural development programme in a sub-committee. Ladies and gentlemen! There was no discussion in this House. You have not informed the parliamentarians about this either. We have been demanding this from you for months, and you are not doing it, Minister of State. This is your style of politics. Look at what you represent in your programmes: In this statement of government, they are talking about the need to preserve the rural area in some way et cetera. That's all right! But where are your clear statements and a clear evaluation? Why Shame Do you agree that this programme of an independent group of experts should be rescinded, as you know, as the Brussels Commission is calling for? – We will also put our finger on this question in the next days, weeks and months! Ladies and gentlemen! Let us look at the agricultural budget. You're always talking about the 40-billion-shilling package. Right and good! But They themselves – and we have discussed it in the Committee – know that this will not last. We will need additional billions. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the point that you are in favour of the approval of pesticides. This is a very populist measure. My colleague Glawischnig has already mentioned this: The fact that the "Ministry of Life" as the future Ministry of the Environment is maintaining what the environmental agents are collecting in his hand is so to speak, is really an affront to all environmental organizations, to consumers and also to farmers! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's an eye-catching par excellence, if you think you can talk to the farmer that with a few big savings in diesel and pesticides and feed, you can prepare for the collapses on the world market and the collapses due to the increased structural change. This is really not acceptable from our side! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, we have discussed this in the field of water protection, and we will talk about it in this House: 48 percent of the observation area – more than 600,000 hectares – has been described as potential nitrate problem regions according to your ministry's official report, Mr. Minister. That's a fact. In your statement of government, we only find – I say really consciously: only – a formulation that you want a priority line with contract water protection for drinking water supply areas. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, drinking water prevention means to tolerate dirt areas, and that is exactly what we are developing against. We believe that it is high time to change the law on water law. This too, of course, is a failure of the old government. But in your program we do not find any real new answers. Also the area of waste water disposal in rural areas...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20072	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20087	Billions of schilling will be installed for "channel cars" in the coming years. In this area too, there would be a savings potential of 50 billion schilling with alternative concepts, with decentralized wastewater treatment and plant clarification plants. There is no concrete statement in your government programme! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me briefly assess the agricultural programme: The agricultural policy set out in the Government's programme is a strengthening of competition and a commitment to structural change with the following consequences: the risk and burden of the environment, the destruction of rural structures and the loss of jobs, the reduction of the quality of food and the waste of resources.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20121	The next speaker is Mr Platter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20142	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike Mr Pirklhuber, I am glad and relieved that we have a new and capable government and that we have an absolute professional at the head of this government with Federal Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a new government, which can rely on a clear majority in this House, so that the necessary reforms can be implemented, which are undoubtedly very necessary for our country, for the citizens of this country, and in particular for our children and children. Ladies and gentlemen! I am deeply convinced that the citizens of this country too are very happy that we now have a new government. Faith You're telling me: The citizens will not measure us by the staged mood, but the citizens will undoubtedly measure this new coalition government in action! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've always been a grand coalitionist. Five years ago I entered this house, and for me there would have been no other variant than a coalition between red and black. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And now you have become a Paul from Saul!]] This is also based on the fact that I work in the municipality and of course have close cooperation with SPÖ. We have twelve mandates, the SPÖ three, unfortunately we have none. There's still order in the house. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls.]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, five years later, the situation certainly looks very different. I call you three reasons: I have experienced in these five years – and many in this House have probably been experiencing for 13 years – how this SPÖ has been dealing with its coalition partner, how we have been humiliated and what the SPÖ has listed in many questions. The ÖVP was always that party that was state-bearing. All that was unpopular is said to have always made this evil ÖVP. I could list a lot of examples here. But if something was pleasant, the SPÖ showed up with both hands, ladies and gentlemen! That's the fact, that's how it's played! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: When you enter a partnership, I think it's important that you let the partner live. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] And if that's not the case, then the partner will get away sometime. The second reason: If you looked at the SPÖ election campaign, you were amazed. Because abroad something else has been said but here in the country, the ÖVP has been turned to, one has broken one's own work. You have to say that clearly! What has been built up in 13 years, you have broken down in your election debate. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And who was the election strategy? Rudas you sent to Stronach! Ladies and gentlemen! The third point: We all have to note that the voters were on the 3rd floor. In October, a decision was made. The great coalition has lost, the SPÖ drastic, we easy, but all in all, the great coalition was at least rejected. The voters want a change. And it would have been completely wrong if you were on 4. It would have been October and would have said: Hurra, the gams! It's all right again! We love ourselves again and make the same great coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But you only recognized this 14 days ago!]] Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP wanted to go into a coalition with the SPÖ and Wolfgang Schüssel again. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, in particular Viktor Klima and ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, are perplexed by your own SPÖ delegates, via Nuremberger & Co.. – This is my very personal assessment of the current situation! Ladies and gentlemen! Now I would like to speak briefly about the area of national defence and in consultation with our security spokesman Paul Kiss on internal security: For a security politician – whether in the field of national defence or also in the field of internal security – this new coalition and this new form of governance are a blow to liberation. Because of this security-political liberation, it is now finally possible to remove the corset. No more lazy compromises are necessary and clear lines can be drawn in security and defence policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I have felt in recent days that it is a pleasure to make security policy in Austria again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To the Federal Lord: We are committed to the common European security and defence policy and to the European peace and defence alliance with assistance so that peace, freedom, security and stability are guaranteed for the citizens of our country. There is no doubt that the military defence of the country is indispensable. We clearly acknowledge that the German army is available in addition to the state defense for disaster aid, for international solidarity services and, of course, for assistance services. We confess – and that was very courageous – to the revision of the Neutrality Act, with a condition for this revision of course a referendum. The citizen will be involved in this decision! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also confess – and this is also very courageous – that the defence budget is gradually increased so that the soldiers are better equipped to make the fleet better and that urgently necessary purchases, such as large helicopters and in addition aircraft for air monitoring, can be made. Ladies and gentlemen! One will wonder why we are doing all this because it is relatively unpopular to raise the defence budget. – We do this as an insurance for our citizens. We do this as an insurance for our children and children. The new government with our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel does this so that never again what people from hatred, envy, misunderstanding and pure desire for power have done to other people that never again what our parents and grandparents had to experience in the First and Second World Wars! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We, the EIA, will articulate a clear idea on all these issues, and we will, of course, work closely with the new Minister for Defence. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Finally, I would like to make another comment on internal security after consultation with security spokesperson Paul Kiss. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Did he give an order?]] In security policy, the ÖVP was undoubtedly the driving force again and again. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Unfortunately!]] This was the case in the past, in the present case, and the ÖVP will of course continue to be driving force with our new Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! "Re-government" means giving clear answers in the field of security policy and setting clear actions. I am thinking of a stapo reform, of advanced risk research, of enhanced measures to stop organised crime, towing, drug crime and the like. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] In conclusion: I am pleased that today I can wish the new government with our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselalle's good. Don't let it bring you out! I am convinced that this will be a good thing. On this occasion, allow me to thank all the soldiers and all the executive officers for the craftsman. In return, I assure you that we will make a good policy for the soldiers and the executives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20314	Mr Strasser, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20332	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry of the Interior is responsible for the internal security of Austria – and thus for the security of the Republic and the security of its citizens in this Republic. As Federal Minister, I see myself as the first servant for all those who, in the truest sense of the word, hold their heads for it if we want to sleep safely, as was the case yesterday, today and tomorrow on the streets of Vienna and there, and will be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council, the Executive Director-General of Public Security, the President-in-Office of Vienna, the General Inspector-General and all parts of the Executive, who, in the Federal Capital and throughout Austria, provided for a comprehensive, competent and consistent procedure to ensure that peaceful rallying participants have safeguarded their securitised right to freedom of expression and assembly, but who have also made sure that a serious, thoughtful and very successful response has been made to that small group of prepared-for-violence when there has been a breach of the rule of law. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As the Federal Minister for the Interior, however, I would also like to express my full gratitude to the organizers of the rallys, because they all have the greatest interest in ensuring that freedom of violence is respected. You have in every way sought the joint and the discussion with our competent bodies in the organization, and I would also like to thank you as the Federal Minister for this cooperation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It will be necessary to establish an opening balance or a takeover balance in the Federal Ministry of the Interior, as there are some projects in the pipeline that are not quite moving forward, which are stuck or partly threatened to remain. That is why we will look at ourselves in a takeover report, where we are currently standing and which are the important points that we gradually have to deal with. I will look – and this is the second focus of my department’s activity – for closer proximity to the citizens. It is vital that executive officials and all those involved in security in Austria seek the proximity of citizens, contact with citizens, common and dialogue with people in the country. Then we'll have more security! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to inform you of nine points from the work programme, which will be in front of us over the next few weeks, months and years. First, the fight against organised crime: We want an intensification of international cooperation and a consistent use of a clearly regulated acquisition. Secondly, We want to actively address drug trafficking and organised drug crime, and we will take advantage of all legal opportunities and, with the appropriate human resources and infrastructural upgrading of the executives, ensure a strong counter-police here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Thirdly, we want to improve the criminal service, and we want to create a top criminal police authority, with available human resources that we currently have. Fourthly, I would like to thank my previous speaker for having already done so – for the reform of the state police. There is a need to find a definition of objectives, and it is also important to find very clearly an efficient parliamentary control also of this state protection service. I would ask you to cooperate with Parliament in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Fifth, you open a bottle I believe that it is necessary and useful – and I am in very good first discussions with my colleague, Scheibner, from the department of defence – that we create a common mass fund in the procurement and merger of uniform varieties for the four guards and beyond, while at the same time disseminating this whole area. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like – sixthly – to come to the asylum policy and underline the mandate given by the Federal Chancellor in his government statement. Austria wants and will fully fulfil its humanitarian obligations towards all those who have a right to asylum in accordance with the Geneva Convention on Refugees. This is an international commitment which we are very happy and concerned about on the basis of human rights and our own values. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will see – seventhly – family integration as the first priority of our work and concerns in the area of immigration, and we want to move forward, particularly quickly, in order to avoid hardships in these areas, with regard to children and young people who have not completed the fourteenth year of life. We want to advance integration – eighthly. In his statement of Government, the Federal Chancellor clearly stated that there should be language promotion on the one hand, but also a comprehensive study on the labour market and labour market impact of facilitated access on the other, and that the next measures should be launched effectively, safely and quickly. In conclusion, I would like to address the ninth point, which is of crucial importance to all our executive officials, namely the comprehensive training reform, in which we are far advanced, which we want to rapidly implement in this legislative period for the best of our officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Security, internal security is a very sensitive state task. I see my house as a service facility which has to offer and preserve this good of security to all citizens and to the Republic. I will devote myself to this task with all the officials of my house!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20464	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20486	High house! Mr President. I read – almost as a supplement – the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now to the discussion. – Mr Bundeskanzler! I don't know how you deal with the criticism that you see from your own ranks on this government structure here. But if the Christian Trade Unions' Group were to vote on the 9th. February notes that this government programme – which is primarily a collection of ideas; and you want to be measured by the actions! – neither the principles of the ÖVP nor the principles of Christian social doctrine and is unsocial, ask two questions for me. First: Does Christian social doctrine even matter to you? Is this another guideline for your government policy? Secondly, How do the so-called representatives of the little man and the little woman, namely the liberals in the government, imagine that they, hardly in the government, forget the interests of the so-called little man and the little woman, simply and simply forget? You will wake up one day, Minister Strasser will have to post the police around Parliament again, but then it will not be left demonstrators, but free voters who carry transparency, on which says betrayal! Betrayal! Betrayal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to say to you: It is time that there was a change at the head of the community of protection of free voters! I'm going to run for it now. I will have to perceive the interests of these voters, because you are no longer aware of these interests! You are now in the government, and you really have to protect your free voters from yourself, because you no longer want to represent their interests! But I say at the same time: Of course, there is a difference between what is promised in election campaigns and what has already been said here: probably the first taming act of the FPÖ. Did you take this very seriously, what was the then vice-channer's bowl in the "Kurier" of the 29th century? Janen said: We are not going to judge what was said in any election battles ten or five years ago or a year ago, but rather at the same time. That is why I would like to suggest: From now on, in the next election campaigns, copy posters on which you raise the demands above and write down: Well, if you're not right, we won't do it anyway. The main thing is: Choose us – best with a binding in front of our eyes! Letter You're on it: We just want to go to the government, the rest doesn't matter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Cap is running electorate!]] [[Further calls.]] You can also join the FPÖ immediately, because you already don't care about your freedom-free voters! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Cap is running electorate!]] Now I'm coming to the next point. [[Abg. Windwood: You've eaten the voters over years!]] They assume – that seems to be your approach, this entire construction of the government; For example, MP Kukacka is one who has been waiting longing for this moment for years, as well as some more, he was perhaps even the architect – you assume that it is possible to "domestize" this blue troop in your way; let's call it that. This has been your announcement – and of course that Schüssel wanted to become Federal Chancellor. The temptation was, of course, great to say, when Haider from Carinthia had reported himself immediately after the election, almost on call: All right, okay, I'll lend a bowl to the Federal Chancellor's title; if he wants to, he can become it, then he'll be supported by us. So bowl assumes from the thesis that he can tame this blue troop. Well, the last days and weeks were not exactly a proof that he could actually do that. After these statements, after these provocations, which the European Union has only just so correctly brought to the ground in its reactions, there was also a conclusion, which was: Once the fox comes into the European chicken cell, it will be different. That's nothing at all; now there's wild fear, wild driving. – Once apart from that, I am curious when the fox comes into the government chicken barn; to speak in this diction. I already have my doubts about the relationship between reality and fairy tales. In any case, I recommend German chancellor bowl the reading "The Little Prince" of Antoine de Saint-Exupéry; this is a good book. In this I recommend the reading of page 67. However, it seems that bowl has read this anyway before he decided to form this blue-black coalition. Because there is almost merciless, almost prophetically the following text: "The fox... looked at the prince for a long time." Then the fox said to the prince: "Please... tame me!" he said. “I want to,” the little prince replied, “but I don’t have much time. I need to find friends...’” You can say that he really has to find it now, not only in Austria but also in Europe, and he has to get to know many things. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's got it!]] – But now he is also getting to know them, because they will let him see something else in this government. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You above all!]] He'll get to know a lot. So I recommend this reading to him, because this is a pit for the "little prince" so that he can look there, how he can actually drive this taming process forward. Perhaps Secretary of State Morak can still be helpful to him in literature. There are also some other pages that are interesting. I want to post a last sentence because here is always said: What do artists and artists want? Why do they practice such criticism here? We have a good program! – So far: Can you do that? Or: Don't be afraid! This is almost as in the Bible: Don't be afraid, we're here anyway, we protect you, we tame evil! Art is the chief thing anyway, that has not changed at all! But the program is fine. - We don't understand. Well, maybe there's another criticism too! Perhaps you think that you are not to be rewarded with government participation for the climate you have created. I think that this criticism must be taken seriously, that you will have to face up to, and that will not be as easy to deal with as you have always done so far. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: But Wittmann did not put the latte up to the Morak!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor! One of the many reasons why the artists refer this position was, among other things, your answer in the "press hour" to the question of an editor. The question was: Do you really believe that Haider has said these things – which you still need to know and which you already know, with SS Krumpendorf, employment policy, third Reich and so on – because he is the last one, or out of a certain opportunism, because he knows that the same thing is coming well in a part of the Austrian electorate segment? What, then, is your opinion? – Cuisine: I don't know because I'm not a psychologist and I want to evaluate others now. Mr. Federal Chancellor! You are not a psychologist in this government, but you have a political task to fulfil! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To do this, you will answer the following questions: Maybe both of them are swinging along. – So maybe he's a little Nazi, and maybe he's a bit an opportunist! Final text: But perhaps a certain one, as I should say, is imperceptible here. He's now 50 years old. To rehearse a youthful inconsistency is cool! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: How old did the cap become?]] Again: I think you are decent on this issue. I'm not saying you're a sympathizer of anything. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] But please say quite clearly: Is it him or isn't he? Or does he just play like that? Or is he an opportunist? – I expect that if you want to tame the fox. Because otherwise he will not be tameable in the long run.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20682	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. At the same time, I declare that the motion for a resolution, which Mr Dr. Cap has read, has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Please, ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20709	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have heard a lot today: among other things, a traditional acting, imaginative Peter Pilz, a humorous acting MP Edlinger and now finally colleagues Cap. [[Abg. May. Main: Excellent!]] That's where I've got to say: Mr Cap, you've been better, you've been better! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] In all these years in this High House where you could have done "Learning by doing" has really not come out much! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Both your acting performance and your political performance has not improved. [[Abg. Schieder: You have it a little bit with the theater apparently!]] However, I still remember today and on this occasion quite gladly a journey at the beginning of the nineties, when Mr Cap and my person accompanied the then Foreign Minister Mock to Paris to conduct talks in the run-up to EU accession. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh, that's it?]] On the verge of these talks, a French MP of the RPR asked me: How is the government constellation with you now, and I answered: S & D Democrats and ÖVP!, he said: Is that gonna work? – To that I replied: Yeah, something's still going on. That's seven or eight years ago. It's been working for a while, but now it hasn't worked. I think that's the most normal thing in the world. Now we're so far away that the left, because they're no longer in power, have to go to the street. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: If we're left, you're right!]] It's the left, isn't it? - From me to the left. You've got to get on the road. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] They are strongly supported by the Greens in these actions, not only by ideas, but also by the Greens. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] I already lack one, yesterday and today's debates: Nobody – nobody! – has distanced itself from what your colleague, Mr Oellinger, said in Vienna's Landtag on violence. [[Abg. Oillinger: Ah, there will have to be an adjustment! Yes, Mrs. Colleague!]] No one has distanced himself! I have always tried to take the Greens seriously. But as long as you don't distance yourself from it, I'm sure I won't take your statements seriously anymore. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He'll distance himself now!]] But now to the new government. We have a new government team, a very attractive one, not only visually, but – as we have seen today – also in the technical field. We have a new government programme, a very attractive program, as I mean, but not only I mean, but as now apparently the "Kronen Zeitung" says: The new government promises a lot. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] - I'll tell you one thing: We will also keep it, in contrast to you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It seems that we have already found hearing in the USA. Because according to an APA report from today, US ambassador Albright, who has so far been very critical of us, says that the program we have presented is a good one. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is even a foreign minister!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ah!]] Yeah, and she says, You're supposed to give this government a chance. She too, funnyly – just like our Federal Chancellor – speaks of practically three equally strong parties in Austria. Yeah, I kind of like that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: then you can cut off a joke.]] Of course, I am particularly pleased that we have set priorities in our programme. Despite the shortage of money, despite the financial disaster that has been left us, we have set clear priorities. Of course, I am particularly pleased that this has happened in the area of women and families. There will finally be approaches to self-employed pensions for women. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The reds just promised us. We do not want to force women into the profession, but we want to make it possible for them by really trying to make family and profession better compatible so that it doesn't just stick to lip confessions as it has been before. However, we have also created very good approaches in the partnership field, new opportunities, concrete possibilities, but which should not be a compulsion in turn, not like the fifty-fifty regime of women's Federal Ministers. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Company household!]] But we have set new, good priorities, especially in the field of child rearing. At last we want to upgrade child rearing idealally and financially. The intentions of the childcare check – for which we liberals, for whom I have personally fought for years, you know – have been implemented at least at a first stage, but completely. I'm on this babysitting allowance. And if, for example, we are going to introduce the school-free drive for boarding school students – and that as soon as possible – then I have to say: It was always the SPÖ that blocked these things in recent years. This will give special advantages to single parents. If you do not want this to happen, we will ask the single parents after a year, or when these measures will come into force. There will also be further steps to improve childcare. I read a point from Chapter III of our programme, item 9 in Chapter III. "In the framework of the planned financial compensatory negotiations, agreement should be found with the countries in view of the expected revenue surpluses of the FLAF with regard to the further development of the childcare allowance.... An integration of special emergency assistance and emergency aid into the concept of childcare allowance is to be examined." - Quote. I'm very satisfied with that. That's just the beginnings we're setting now. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Weir the beginnings!]] I can only say to Mr Edlinger, who now calls for the naked children's potters for the six years: It's your fault that we can't immediately implement the six years. [[Abg. Edellinger: No cash!]] Wouldn't you have been doing such a big-scale mismanagement – of course, a study by the Austrian Institute of Family Research proves it! – then we could have already implemented every six years in this coming period. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I am a charming person, so I cannot make any calls!]] Just a short time to my former counterpart, Mrs Prammer: She has brought such a beautiful saying of the buttons, of the holes and of the button holes, and she has meant that we should now look with the new government that at least we could close the first button again. – Yes, it will not be so easy to close this first button again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] But we'll make it. I would have liked you – I say this to the Social Democrats – to have not fully opened the buttons of the protective cover for Austria before.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e20984	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. To be corrected – actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21008	Of course, Mr President. Mrs Haller said in her speech that the Greens supported the violence of demonstrators. [[Abg. Haller: Distance yourself!]] On the other hand, I put it correctly: The Greens have always and everywhere stressed the freedom of violence as their essential principle. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ha, ha, ha, rarely so laugh!]] Even though Mrs Haller repeatedly claims to be more knowledgeable, the Greens support violence or violence, this claim does not become more correct by repetition, but at most only more insulting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21070	The next speaker is Mrs Lunacek. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21091	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! High house! It's a bit bizarre: If I have heard the declaration of government here, including the words of the new government parties and the words that appear in this programme, I must say that they are not entirely in line with what I experience out there with people I talk to. There's a pretty different thing I'll come back to later. What you spoke about today, Mr Platter, first, was that this declaration of government and this new government will be a blow of liberation and that you want to re-rule. [[Abg. Silhavy: A blow above all!]] Well, a few interesting aspects may be in the words of the Government Declaration, I cannot deny that. These are words, and paper is patient. The openness, tolerance, these are the cornerstones of democracy – I certainly agree with you. The question is what it looks like in detail: freedom, respect for human rights. Minister of Finance Grasser said – and also a few others – that: We should not measure you by the prejudices. – We will not measure you by the prejudices. We measure you, if so, not only by your words, but by what you have done or done. I find it very difficult for women's policy to believe what is in it, for example, that you want to support equality between women and men at all levels. Although I may recognize that there is now a first female vice-cancer in this country – it should have been there for a long time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is something beautiful!]] It was also not our decision that they have not yet been available. But the same FPÖ, Mr Westenthaler, Mr. Col., had the same FPÖ before, until the government was formed after the election of 3. October, a female share of 26.2 percent in their club. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have chosen the club woman!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why did you pick the club woman?]] Do you know how many you have now – and now Mrs. Riess-Passer is on the government bank? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why is Mrs Petrovic no longer a clubwoman?]] – 17.3 percent! This is too little for the equality between women and men in politics. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the ÖVP, it doesn't look much better. You may now have a few more, from 19.2 percent to 23.1 percent, before 3. ==References== October. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You'll pick your club wife for this because she's a woman, isn't she?]] But that's far from the same level. There are countries in this world that we call "development countries", such as Peru in South America. There, after the Beijing Women's Conference five years ago, it was introduced in such a way that at least 30 percent of women in the parties must always be women. Perhaps you should take an example of this! I ask both of you, but in this case I also ask SPÖ: Why, then, did you vote in favour of our request, which we have already made to the public – that the promotion of the party should be based on the proportion of women and men, or on the relationship between women and men, and on the real mandates; that if you have less than 50 percent of women in the real mandates, you will receive less of the promotion of the party, and this is placed in the promotion of women? Then it might not be so special today that there is a first vice chancellor, then maybe we shouldn't have to pull it out like that anymore. Mrs. Zierler! You said you didn't want to put women's policy in the ghetto. Well, with the measures you've taken, you haven't created within your party this equality you're talking about. The Women's Ministry, you say you didn't abolish it, but you integrated it. Experience shows in many parts of the world: If you integrate something else without referring to it very precisely, without saying exactly what you want to do in there without exactly providing personnel and resources for it, then it goes down, then nothing remains. Then it's not just integrated, but then it's gone. And that's gonna happen! If that wasn't the case, we'd be glad. But I fear it will be. We'll take a very close look at this. Another point of openness and tolerance: Minister of Finance Grasser has also said that you want to resolve the reform. That is something we would agree with. We have also said very often in recent years that there is a need for reforms in this country. This is one of the reasons why your party, the FPÖ, has become so strong that in recent years nothing has gone further. But there is nothing in your government's statement about reform for years, and there is nothing in your coalition agreement either. First of all, you must explain to me why the European Court of Human Rights has already been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights, for the Austrians by the European Parliament, and where it is finally in the European Union, there is nothing in it. At the ÖVP I know: § 209 Criminal law law serves you to uphold ideology, according to which you supposedly want to protect young people. It's about the different age for gay men compared to heterosexuals – that's what you don't want to do. However, a few years ago, FPÖ submitted a request to reduce it to 16 years. Why didn't you do that now when you came up with it? – You seem to have become afraid of your own courage towards the ÖVP. There is no anti-discrimination law either. Not only for lesbians and gays, but also for other population groups in this country, it would be high time there was such a thing. No word in there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point: The country was said to be freer and more opener. Don't sound bad! "Strong democracy" stands inside – doesn't sound bad either, we don't have anything against it at all! But if under the chapter "Strong Democracy" in the Coalition Agreement only the talk is about the free individual – that is, I stress – and about the honoraryness – that is also important to me, especially with us very many people volunteerly – but not a word from the so-called civil society and not a word from the non-governmental organizations that do a lot of work in this country that the state has not done or will do in the future, then I must say that is not the free and open society that we need. Even in the chapter on development policy, the non-governmental organisations do not happen; although a new law – and we have already called for it – but of the non-governmental organisations that do a particularly important work in this area – and you know this very well from the ÖVP, especially your former Secretary of State Benita Ferrero-Waldner – there is no word in it. How can we believe that you want to promote openness and democracy? It is bizarre to hear these words here, because the mood I mentioned at the beginning, which I experience outside, is another one. There are people with darker skin color than we all have here in this house. These people are more afraid than before. There are Jews and Jews who fear more and think: Perhaps they should emigrate if what FPÖ has said in recent years really becomes reality. The government programme has nothing to do with this, but there is no distance from it. For example, if someone from Upper Austria tells me that it has become more common at the main table there to say things like: Mauthausen belongs back open... [[Abg. Grossruck: Where is it?]] In Wels it was, it's been reported to me. [[Abg. Grandruck: Where exactly? When?]] I'll tell you that. [[Abg. Grandruck: Where exactly?]] [[Call to the ÖVP: What does that mean has been reported to you?]] It is a fact that the self-confidence of people is strengthened by what you have always said by right-wing extremes, right-wing radicals. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Tell him where and when! He's going after the thing!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He's going to do the thing! Tell him!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Bla bla bla!]] We do not need to change laws to that end. It's enough if it's made to stand out now. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say it! – Allegations!]] Who You want to counteract how you want to counteract this fear, of which nothing is contained in your government statement, and that is missing! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're scaring me!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21335	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21356	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! A small addition to Josef Cap, who has become a profound bonding coach for the Federal Chancellor. One thing he must admit to the new Federal Chancellor: For a long time, we have heard such a sovereign and authentic declaration of government from a Federal Chancellor. That was a good thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He has more than passed this sample. I am very confident that it will therefore be possible to work in the same sovereign way on the further programme. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: If you see only half, you have a selective perceptiveness!]] But above all, I am pleased that such important emphasis will be placed on youth, science, culture and education. I am quite sure that, for example, under Minister Gehrer, we will of course experience a very good implementation. It has proved in recent years how sovereign it is about the problems. We will ensure that the school system remains differentiated, that the school tests are evaluated in order to further develop reforms, and that the existing evaluation results are included. We will set accents in the field of science, where I am sure that the Minister can go with him and his colleagues out of service, because many things can also be found in the rosary programme, in the Green Paper on Research and so on. I am sure that we will also receive approval in the ambitious cultural programme. – Unfortunately, I have to work through the points so fast. I am very, very happy and convinced that there will be another positive signal, namely that German Chancellor Schüssel has succeeded for the first time – the first time in Austria! – to bring an active artist to the Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a sign of dialogue. Mr Morak is here, you can make him... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He has resigned! You don't know?]] Why should Mr Morak have resigned? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... he said he was going to step back!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't rain yourself up! You'll get a chance!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... virtual Secretary of State!]] I am very glad that besides the artists who have articulated that they have fears, there are problems, there are also other artists who have expressed their sympathy, their goodwill, their consent and their support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would just like to mention Robert Menasse, Pierre Boulez, Frank Baumbauer, Franz Xaver Kroetz, Fritz Muliar and many others. I would like to thank you for your advance confidence in these reigns, ladies and gentlemen. I think Franz Morakund's team will be worthy of this confidence advance. I am very happy that he has announced that he will take care of the Ingeborg-Bachmann Prize and that he will continue to develop and place the Bachmann Prize on modern legs together with the Bachmann heirs. Franz Morak, thank you! You can also find the support of Andrea Wolfmayr and others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also say at this point – and this is important to me – that I feel a discomfort at a certain pressure of mind, which arises, for example, on Jewish friends, who must express Franz Morak, me and other sympathy and relativize this sympathy under the pressure quite certain forces. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] I also consider the question to me: "Woman Brinek, why are you still there?" with Frank Baumbauer, the intentionant of the Salzburg Festival, who said: [[Recent calls by Dr. Mertel and Huber]] "Some go, I don't think that's right. Now it's said to scratch sleeves and do good work." I want to join him. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That was announced!]] No, I didn't announce anything! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That would be a possibility!]] Don't assume, not Franz Moraknoch to me, that we've announced something. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Mertel) Don't always be so angry!]] We've announced we're working. We are members of the ÖVP, members of the ÖVP, members of the ÖVP, and we stand for it. We don't have to get married in a coalition, we just have to implement a pragmatic program. With our chancellor at the top and with our ministerial team, we will certainly be happy and good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21560	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21581	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Let me start with three thanksgivings – not with everyone you will have a joy. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Thanks?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a speaker’s chair, not a pulpit!]] The first thanks goes to Mr Bundeskanzler for the objective balance sheet and analysis of the current economic and social situation in the introduction of his declaration of government. It is the balance of many years of joint work under the leadership of Social Democratic Federal Chancellors. That was an objective representation! Thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Very good, yes!]] The second thanks: Thank you for this revelation, which was presented with this declaration of government, but above all with this government programme. For never before in the Second Republic has a government party been so unfavorable, as coldly broke all the election promises as the Freedom Party does with this programme here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll prove this to you: Lower electricity price, relieve drivers, flat tax, children's check and so on – nothing is there! In addition, I can still get out of the "Format" of the 5th. Cite September 1999, which reads: "Coalition only without Khol", Mr. Klubobmann! The introduction of the children's check, the FPÖ tax model of the flat tax, a immigration stop and the withdrawal of ÖVP Klubobmann Andreas Khol calls FPÖ chief Jörg Haider a condition for possible freedom of government participation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want your worries!]] Furthermore, Haider is "to no faulty compromise ready": "In any doubt, rather in opposition!" [[Abg. Leikam: Khol has been withdrawn!]] None of this is left here, and the positive thing I think about it is that the immigration stop is not inside, even though you are talking about a reduction in immigration. But nothing else is left. This was also known from the outset by the Secretary-General of the Austrian People's Party, Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, for she was sending out the ÖVP of 12. September means: Haider makes a policy of empty promises. He leads the voters behind the light. – Four days later she moved again: Smoke-callat criticizes the turning halls of the liberals: Countless promises of the liberals; they have all been broken so far. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What you worry about the other parties! You should be worried about your own party!]] Never in the Second Republic has a party been so unscathed to break all election promises as the liberals. – This revelation, which you make with this statement of government and with this programme, is therefore truly a thank you! Thirdly, I would also like to thank you for the small cracks we have seen within the government groups. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The fact that, for example, the Federal Chancellor rightly says that the Austrian universities have an excellent standard and colleague Graf goes down here and says that this is all a mess – not literally, but meaningfully – shows quite fundamental differences in the view of the starting balance of this federal government. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You can wish yourself a lot!]] These fine cracks were remarkable anyway. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You have them within your group too!]] Now I come to speak to science. We have also had many of these points in our programme. That is why it will be a matter of implementing them. [[Abg. Young: Such concerns that he cares about us!]] One thing was interesting: Interestingly, this link between tuition fees and the lawfulness of the universities, to which the People's Party so absolutely wanted the approval of us, is no longer found in the government programme. That's where you could say: Good too. That's a very positive thing. – But: I can quote my colleague, Count, in the "wu-memo", the newspaper of the University of Economics, just on 3 July. In February: "The subject of tuition fees will also be discussed in connection with jurisdiction," and Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer said yesterday in an issue that it will be necessary to explain that not everything can be free of charge, which is offered at universities and at schools. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] For one thing is essential to us in this balance sheet, which has been presented: We will not allow new barriers to be established, that our universities will in the future be those places where only the children of good parents can study. We want these universities to remain freely accessible to all, regardless of whether the children come from a rich or from a poor parent house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it were to allow time, I would address in detail the concerns expressed recently by the rectors' conference, for example yesterday, or those concerns that exist with regard to the large-scale research project Austron. Because also cooperation in science is affected by these sanctions of foreign countries in a similar form, as we have heard today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol points to his watch to signal the speaker the expired speaking time.]] Federal Chancellor! It's about this and it's about all of Austria's research cooperation as well. We are ready to work to get these sanctions back away. But not we have the posters in Vienna filed, but the Freedom Party has been that, and not we are the elephant in the porcelain shop, but Haider is this elephant in the porcelain shop. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] Only if you, Mr Bundeskanzler, can get the co-signatory of your coalition package to get rid of these trample tours will we be successful with our efforts in the interests of Austria and its people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21814	The motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Niederwieser on the maintenance of free access to higher education in Austria is well supported and will be put to the vote after the end of this debate. Mr Haigermoser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e21838	High house! Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Ministers! [[The speaker places a toy lamp on the speaker's desk.]] Today's debate has shown a great deal of sensitivity to the SPÖ and, in particular, to the Greens. The Social Democrats have tried to make this straw of rhetoric almost as their rescue ring. The fact that I brought a children's lamp here is a symbolic act, I would like to say, because the light has gone out, ladies and gentlemen. The political traffic light has gone out, and I am particularly pleased that this good deed has accomplished Mr Van der Bellen. He has, in fact, managed to deduct a number of mandates. With this we have lost the yellow light, the LIF – no great loss – and therefore the light is now only more on red-green, and that is too little. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Huber: But it's not blue either!]] That hurts you! I am glad for the Austrian people, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no left-wing majority in this House. But that hurts you, and that's why it's happening to you today, as some people do at the carnival in Venice, when the beautiful mask is taken down and then the fear is revealed under this mask! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But this is not a Venetian government!]] You have this problem! And it is good that there is no left-wing majority anymore! I am glad that there is a middle government in this country, like a snow king, who is willing to work up those shards that the left have prepared for this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Haigermoser, you are without measure...!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a good day for this country, Mr Edlinger, Mr Ex-Finanzminister! [[Abg. Edellinger: Better than your toys!]] Even if you've ordered and supposed to have been with you today, I say now, "1. May-Red" To be able to cover your own failure: The rest remains the bankruptcy of a caste. I'm just quoting a single sentence from the section "The Dipped Citizen", where you can read under the heading "Voice and Other Distress": "As with a royal right of citizens to participate by election, some of the functional democratic self-glority is revealed. Hardly asked for his opinion and with due effort, notables from taxpayers, asked to the urns, and the citizen has already done his fault." – From "concurrence of a caste" by Klaus Emmerich. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in your speeches, you have revealed your own bankruptcy of political nature! You're unscrupulous! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Main: Are on vacation!]] Rudi Ratlos, ladies and gentlemen! The ex-cancellor has agreed on a holiday. Today, the diadoches have come to be the successors. No one knows where it goes. They are without direction – that is what you have heard in your speeches – and we are filling this directionlessness with expertise, with this federal government! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Well, servus!]] We love to enter this vacuum, ladies and gentlemen. We could also have said: No, we liberals don't do that. We're going to the opposition. Let's make new elections! - No! Because of responsibility for this country, we have gone to this government in order not to give this traffic light any more, but to occupy the topics in this country blue-black and to do positive work for this country in front of the party book! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger:... the clapping texts!]] More freedom for the individual! Work for everyone only in healthy farms! We will also be in the Chamber of Commerce with our ally, that is, with Mr Puttinger – we do not need Mr Leitel – to see to it that there are reforms, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, where things belong. [[Cheerfulness of Members Dietachmayr and Ing. Gartlehner]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll tell you: Happiness in the Republic Austria and this Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22021	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22042	Mr President. High house! It is not surprising for me, but it is afraid that you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, of the SPÖ and of the liberals have not managed to do it all day until now – we have been sitting here since 9 a.m. in the morning – to represent once again the interests of disabled people. [[Abg. Fischl: I said it!]] [[Abg. May. Master: You weren't there! The Federal Chancellor too!]] Mr President. It has always been the case in this House that the liberals have occasionally represented the interests of disabled people. Sometimes we could also win the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We did the article 3 of the Federal Constitution!]] In the government paper, we are only standing in there when it comes to special schools when it comes to special institutions. Then you know, ladies and gentlemen, who sent you there. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That is absolutely unfair! That's not true!]] When it comes to human rights, when it comes to the right to self-determination of people with disabilities, you are silent! [[Abg. May. Main: No, we're not silent!]] You are silent about the ÖVP, and the liberals are silent too! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, we're not silent!]] It is not so long ago, Mr. Haupt, that you were still one of those who have been committed to making the "harvest of the pocket money of nursing homes" - so you have called it - oblivion has to be reversed. [[Abg. May. Main: That's how it will stay!]] [[Abg. May. Main:... One-time payment...!]] Where is it in your paper that these people have to get it back? [[Abg. May. Main: Read it!]] It's not the one-time payment! It's about getting these people back to what you've been taking in recent years. But They have placed the interest in disabled people finally ad acta. [[Abg. Fischl: That's a lie! That's really a premise!]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise! You also need to know where the border is and what truth is!]] Yeah, much more. Whoever reads this government paper and is himself affected – in this House I am – must be afraid. Ms. Rauch-Kallat said on Sunday, also her daughter - Claudia Rauch, she is blind - called her and said that she is afraid in this country – the daughter of Mrs. Rauch-Kallat! [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: That's incredible! That's great!]] And this fear is justified. For example, if you look at the law on property – on page 108 of your government agreement, if you want to read it – find this way You there – listen to me carefully –: "Development of provisions to facilitate the medical treatment of mentally ill people and disabled people in need of treatment." Do you know what that means? Do you know who should have the relief? – Not for the disabled, but for all those who intend to release disabled people for medical purposes! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is the first step you are finally carrying out your Bio-Medicine Convention, which represents Mr Swimmer in the Council of Europe up to the very end! [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is an incredible assumption! You're not mad at me!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's where the forbearance stops!]] There is nothing in your government paper about strengthening the rights of disabled people. [[Abg. Fischl: I'm excited what you'll say in a year!]] Not a word! On the contrary: It says that for long-term unemployed – and this includes disabled people; You know, many of us are unemployed for a long time – when assessing the feasibility of employment, taking into account the future use of the profession in the past into account in the absence of employment. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what that means? – This means that disabled people who are not given a chance in the labour market now have to do what I should have done: perhaps stick over pencils to tapes – at a zero rate! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a consequence of what you're bothering us with, what you're burdening old and sick people in the future. Mr Donabauer said today: In the health insurance of the farmers, there has always been self retention, and now we want it gone. – Mr Donabauer! Have you forgotten that in 1998 we had a change in the law that transferred the pensioners and the insured persons of the farmers' social security to the ASVG? If my mother, as a farmer, had been forced to pay for a suicide due to her outpatient treatment, she would not have been able to afford the dialysis because I could not even finance it with my salary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Mrs Colleague! If she's chronically ill, she has no restraint!]] In the "Kurier", ladies and gentlemen, you can read the following [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Dialysis was never a restraint! It's always been an exception!]] For an insured person who is in treatment because of cross pain, the new 20 percent cost-taker regulation means a load of 2 850 S per quarter. – But he can only have back pain and nothing else. Do you want us to go to the hospital, or do old people have to be hospitalized, even though they may only need a treatment that they could also do outpatiently? Do you know what it means for a minimum pensioner, for a minimum pensioner, for people who have to live in special homes at 362 s a month, if they may have to save a year to be able to afford treatment for a quarter – only from back pain? You've undermined this social system! You have made it happen and you will continue to make people with disabilities, for example, on a shower board – that costs 941 S! – already have 486 S self retention!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22300	Mrs Haidlmayr! The voluntary limit on speaking time was 2 minutes ago, the actual end in 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22316	I ask you: Take back the savings for disabled people, for old people, for sick people, for socially weak people, for they can no longer afford survival!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22346	Mr President, on a point of order, I should like to make a point of order. I would ask you to comply with the provisions on speaking time and content.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22370	Mr President. Dear Mrs Haidlmayr! You have personally accused the government parties and me of forgetting the disabled in this government programme. I can only list a few points to make you realize that this is not the case and that you are mistaken. We have set out: the work assistance, the adaptation of jobs for disabled people, the employment projects to meet the needs of disabled people, projects for training disabled young people with particular regard to hearing and seeing disabled young people, the implementation of the ÖNORM B2050 for federal buildings, the payment of the compensation tax by the individual Federal Ministries in order to achieve better employment of disabled people and the exhaustion of quotas in all ministries, the single payment in the field of care fees, in order to at least marginalise the lack of valorization, the improved accounting of the care periods and the pension insurance benefits of nurses, in order to ensure better protection for those people who care for the disabled as well. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Only in special facilities!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Only in special facilities!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You don't need to "groom" us, we need rights!]] I would ask you, Mrs Haidlmayr, to take this into account and to reflect correctly what is contained in our programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22434	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22456	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Since yesterday early in the morning we have experienced many hours under the most diverse titles – first yesterday's urgent request, today's government declaration, which in turn interrupted by another urgent request – until the overcrowding always the same detail arguments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But this also applies to you!]] Therefore, at this late hour as a representative of the Austrian Seniors' Federation, let me try to shed light on the problem from its more basic point of view: [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Cake it again!]] Today, three Austrians aged between 15 and 60 per person aged over 60 come to work. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I know that! That's what Mrs. Sickl has already explained!]] In 30 years the same "three Austrians in the working age between 15 and 60" will be two who are over 60 years old. The house mind must inform you that, if no fiscal measures are taken regarding our pension system, this does not mean anything but that within a period of time most of us hope to experience, either the pensions need to be halved or the contributions doubled. If both of us do not want to do so – and I believe that all four parties agree – then there is no way by which to use the happily rising life expectancy in Austria only for a longer pension period. Or, in other words: If life expectancy in Austria has already increased dramatically and will continue to rise strongly, but the current de facto-pensional age of 58 years will remain fully preserved and frozen, then this system would have to collapse. In this, all experts agree, from therup commissioned by your party to Bernd Marin, close to your party, to Kohmaier and Kramer. This, Hohes Haus, is the background in which the planned restructuring package of the Austrian Federal Government must be seen. Let's keep this summarily. First: Existing pensions are not only tangled in any way, but are safeguarded. To this end, there are substantial legal improvements for pensioners, including the abolition of retirement provisions. Secondly, All citizens who comply with the statutory retirement age remain completely unaffected by the planned changes. Thirdly, For early pensioners, measures are to enter into force, which will have the same financial impact as originally foreseen in the ÖVP SPÖ package, the second of which provides for numerous exceptions to the more socially weak and the third of which are essential to maintain the system. In this sense, the Austrian Seniors' Federation explicitly confesses what German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said yesterday: Re-government means securing our pension system with a wide view for the next generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22524	I call Mr Kurt Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22548	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new social contract, which has been concluded here between the Freedom Party and the ÖVP, includes – this has already been said several times today, but we must always repeat it again – massive unilateral burdens on workers, unilateral burdens on the unemployed, for the sick, for pensioners and for young people. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not at all sad – whether in government or not in government – but one thing is clear: The Austrian People's Party is in a coalition with the Freedom Party, and the Social Democrats are in a coalition with the Austrian population. We will, with all democratic means and with this Austrian population, prevent this pact of injustice from being implemented so easily. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the course of the discussion, a little has been lost, but we still have – and this must be fully aware and clear – a very, very large, if not even the largest foreign policy crisis since 1945. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Really? You just want that!]] It is still true that a number of negative reactions from the European Union, from the States of the European Union, from Finland, and far beyond, also from the United States, also from Norway, also from Israel and now also from the Czech Republic and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't try to talk this away with an intermediate cry! The situation in which we are – and this is dangerous – can have an impact on the Austrian economy and therefore also on Austrian jobs. If we assume that the domestic economic structure has a very high external trade link with the European Union, which is 69.2 percent of the total imports and 63.3 percent of total exports, and we do not in turn create a reasonable, good climate, I think a certain risk can also be created for our economy. Because we do not just want to criticize and face all these things negatively, we have decided to put forward a motion for a resolution: Although there is a vague formulation of registration fees in relation to the re-establishment of companies. In this regard, we want to make it clear that registration fees for business start-ups should be completely eliminated in the future. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There is only a recommendation from the Chamber of Commerce for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Mr President, ladies There is a recommendation! But we would like this recommendation to be made a law! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Haigermoser! This is our proposal and our contribution to facilitating business start-ups also in Salzburg.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22618	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Eder has been properly tabled and will be put to the vote. The next speaker is Mr Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22642	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In just a few minutes, let me take a look at this debate. I have been able to experience a number of very ambitious young ministers who have presented an ambitious programme, in which admittedly much of what has been negotiated between ÖVP and SPÖ. That is why I am very optimistic that many of the projects to be implemented here will be very happy with the SPÖ, because their ideas are also involved. It will certainly be a lot of fun if we share something! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, this debate has also shown that some ministers in other positions had made a much better figure. Mr Edlinger! As a lay actor, you have left a very good impression here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] You could have been more successful at a tour theatre than as a Minister of Finance! Cap wasn't as good as you today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the left! Otherwise, I see that with sadness, great disappointment has spread in you. Mr Eder has put it to the fore once again. There is disappointment because this government programme is almost consistently positive, especially in many comments and abroad. That's why you're disappointed! I don't understand why you're disappointed about it, but it's you. Maybe you're disappointed because the demonstrators didn't come today! This is something you should think about, because many of them are disappointed because the demonstrators did not come! Has the money gone out to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? – 1 800 S a day for demonstrating were obviously too much, now it has only reached for two days and for today obviously not anymore! [[Abg. Edlinger: Mr Schweitzer! Do you think that's funny? I mean, that's embarrassing!]] They show disappointment that the population is most pleased that something is finally going on in this country, because there is finally a government that has a very, very ambitious programme! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, Mr Niederwieser, you are very disappointed that there is a trend change abroad! Obviously, the intrigue against one's own country and the population did not pay off! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This shows the APA message about Mrs. Albright, who expressed her opinion on the Austrian government programme. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You should remember: An intrigue against one's own country over another, just to gain power, is not worth it! For this is quickly understood, as is the case now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22721	Mrs Ridi Steibl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22746	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The issues for families and women are now anchored in the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations. In this context, the SPÖ and in particular the Minister of Women's Non-Services are talking about the great danger that women's policy would be equated with family policy in the future. The Greens, and above all Mrs Petrovic, who is now responsible for basic and women's issues, are even talking about the fact that women will be treated as a social case in the future or will only be defined by the family. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent days, you have also had a lot of time to talk to people from other EU countries. That is why I ask you: Hasn't you been told that, for example, Germany has a ministry for women, families and seniors or that Sweden, the pioneer in women's and family affairs, does not have its own women's ministry? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Our Minister for Agriculture will be pleased: Women's affairs are linked to the Ministry of Agriculture in Sweden, as the Swedish Embassy has confirmed to me today. The EU Commission also proposes to introduce a gender perspective in all policy concepts, at all levels and at all stages of decision-making. This means, implemented on Austrian competence discussions, that the path we are now taking with our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel is the right one. For women and family policy is a cross-cutting policy and is to be negotiated in all areas of the ministries! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think that some things have been established, and I am convinced that this will now be implemented, which has not succeeded in times of SPÖ women's policy, such as a better compatibility of work and family and equal pay for equivalent work, which the social partners and particularly the trade union could have done for a long time. This includes, for example, facilitating the promotion of women in enterprises and promoting business start-ups. I would like to say a few words about what we are now going to do in connection with family policy: On the extension of the leave period to two or three years or 36 weeks and even more in this area, you will certainly already know, because I am convinced that you have read the program and know what you first negotiated with the ÖVP. What has been negotiated between ÖVP and FPÖ and is now really on the table in the final result is a good way. We will go through these and make the appropriate implementations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22803	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22824	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to be brief because I think it has already been said a lot, and a repetition of the arguments is probably not really useful. But there's something to hold on to: This discussion today is based on the hope of the FPÖ and the ÖVP that, on the one hand, the Austrians, on the other, should give you faith that you have presented an ambitious programme and that this government, as it was seen today, is an ambitious government, but on the other hand may also give you faith abroad and that all this – and that is the springing point! – what you have offered to foreign countries and what we all have to do with each other now, perhaps some sort of swim. I have this suspicion! We'll see who the time will work for, and we'll see if you can do it. I believe that you will not be able to carry out what you have been doing here today, either domestically or abroad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To your so-called program is simple and easy to hold: It is known from the FPÖ that it has no programme. Because in recent years you have finally and finally shown that you are taking that position today and tomorrow. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Therefore, Mr Haigermoser, it is not surprising that in the end you would have agreed to everything that only somehow helped to get to the government! What you need to explain to the voter is the fact that before the election you have declared all the time that you have the right to stand up for the little ones! – However, the only thing that emerges from this very vague programme is that it is not the case that those among the wheels you always want to represent, namely the little social ones! You will have to explain this to the voters in the future, and in this regard you have a considerable need! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] For the redistribution – I think – the numbers themselves speak: 19 billion schilling in savings in favour of industry and farmers, 14 billion in taxes on workers. – I am surprised that you are presenting this with such openness! [[Abg. Gaugg: This is an absolute nonsense!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] With regard to abroad, I would like to ask you: Perhaps you could start by thinking about how you would react if you were not sitting in the country, but sitting abroad and pursuing all that is happening here in the country! I now address the FPÖ exclusively; the ÖVP only in so far as it helped, of course, a party that I believe cannot be a state-bearing party, which it has proven to be sustainable, to be in office here! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Isn't he well, Jarolim? That's really sweet!]] Mr. Haigermoser! In the past, they have proven in a sustainable way what we can expect from a shark in the country. I can save myself here all the quotations – starting from blaic acid – that we have heard. All you have to do is consider: Here you have managed to stump one or the other, abroad, where you are not used to it, however, all this sounds different, for example the statement with the chicken stall! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I'm saving it now. However, the sensitivity you do not have, which is so typical of the FPÖ, you need to acknowledge others! Elsewhere there are some correct reactions to sounds, undertones or simply and simply "untones". These reactions have probably already been eliminated due to the long-standing activity of the FPÖ. – This is a confession of guilt, we have to blame ourselves now. As regards the judicial programme itself, I must say that Minister Krüger has set out a programme here today that differs greatly from what Mr Fekter presented about a week ago. I wish you could actually implement this programme at the ÖVP and implement it with it, as is at least the case today. If I hear what you have said in the past, for example: Life has to stay for life! – that's how it sounds today. Today it sounds like: At least one must think about those who have been sentenced for life and who no longer pose a danger. Ladies and gentlemen! This was the FPÖ's first contribution in the last six years to this direction. I wish you good luck, on the one hand in your own ranks and, on the other hand, also in this ÖVP! On the other hand, the question of the division is also interesting: They all know that for a long time – about two years it was – we had a discussion process with experts whose end was the government template and its implementation. However, the election is scarcely over, we are faced with an ÖVP that turns away from it and explains: The disversion, the extrajudicial act - the epitome of victim protection, my Ladies and gentlemen! – can't stay like that, that must be lost. – It is obvious that continuity in legal policy is something that we can no longer expect in the future. I think this is an extremely unfortunate situation. Finally, I come to two motions for resolutions which I would like to make. One concerns § 209. We have been discussing this for a long time. Today, you have made it clear with your programme and in particular with your statements and statements by more or less persons dressed in the matter, which on the one hand you obviously do not want to know and on the other hand do not intend to do so. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We have always "seeked" the Minister and not "invited" him!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Secondly, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I assume that you will, as in the past, of course reject it. However, we will still discuss this matter in the public and hope that the time will come back sooner or later, in which we can discuss these issues again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e22984	The two motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. As far as reading the text is concerned, I believe that Mr Haigermoser's pass was not part of the motion for a resolution but was just an interim remark. Mr Dr. Ofner spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm actually correcting: My immediate predecessor claimed that today the Minister of Justice has for the first time been removed from the wording: "Life must stay for life!" – That’s wrong! The official wording from the mouth of the Judge Harald Ofner was: "Life will sometimes have to stay alive." That was it and nothing else!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23052	Mr Jung came to speak. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23070	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! - Yes! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We'll take care of it. A sentence in the main book of the admittedly at least amusing fairytale uncle Cap, which also applies to some other colleagues from SPÖ: Cynism results very often from rejected love. This can be seen again and again from your words. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To Minister Schlögl, who unfortunately is not here and who admittedly disappointed me so much today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] – Not you, Mr Edlinger! You have the typical possession of a Vienna SPÖ official, who has become superior to the people in 50 years of government! Look at how you're talking about how you behave, how you call in! [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm proud of that!]] I've come to know all these wardens like you in Vienna for a good time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that I was the only non-socialist officer in the adoption of Mr Schlögl, because I believe that someone, before and before the work of which one has respect for himself, has a proper say and that one can be there at a proper takeover. In the meantime, we have learned that these take-overs were not so neat. Mr Edlinger! He literally said: "In a democracy, a change of government is quite normal. That's the way it is." - I found this highly decent. He said something completely different here today. It was suddenly another key. I can only tell you: The diadoche struggles, i.e. the follow-up struggles in the SPÖ, in which you are supposedly also involved – however, far removed behind colleagues Schlögl, as you can see from the newspaper – must be really brutal and terrible! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Now something more serious than Mr Ex-Minister: Unfortunately, Mr Oellinger is not here. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: He's here!]] Ah, is he here? Very good! I'm very right! During my absence, he once found out today and accused me of having sympathy with an Austrian government of the First Republic. – That’s more than false, I said. Mr Grünewald quoted a ministerial union that took place in 1935, to which there are now similarities. I have pointed out that this could not be the case in this cabinet composition and I have said: Learn history, deputies! Nothing else I said! What you have done, Mr Oellinger – and I can't imagine you being questioned – was more! Such an assumption has already gone into the field of diffamation! Mr Oellinger! My grandmother once said very correctly: As the bad guy thinks, so is he! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Lunacek, because this was mentioned earlier: I kept her on television yesterday the behavior of her colleague Vassilakou. To this end, she meant that the story with the "Bringing the Freeman under the Earth" was certainly not that meant. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Workers!]] And colleagues of yours probably didn't mean it that way either. – You always put every word or syllable on the gold scale with us liberals, but you think you can easily exculpate each other! Think about this question too, ladies and gentlemen. Starting Gold Scale: Mrs Stoisits has also been very free to deal with the truth today. I had to reject her allegations. I would also like to say something about this history in Strasbourg and the really very strange concept of democracy outside Austria: There was an application in which, among other things, the liberals were sentenced. No vote against was taken in this request. Not only the liberals, but also many other parties – I have already listed them – did not speak. – That is the view of democracy in this institution! I then asked for the result of the vote of over 400 Members, who had twice been manually counted, was very narrow. On my question as to how the vote was taken in detail, I was told by the Bureau that this was a secret. These are really very strange democratic ideas! Since Mr Eder spoke about international isolation earlier, brought quotations and listed countries, I would like to mention two brief sections of letters I have received from Members of these parliaments. One writes: "Don't let yourself be distracted from the hive in the EU, including your coalition partner, and get away from the right course. The mood in our country is vastly on your side. The EU's technology could hardly have shot at a larger source at the expense of the EU's supporters." A Norwegian Member writes – I translate –: "I asked a well-known Austrian politician from one of the competitive parties of the liberals whether Dr. Haider would really be a kind of Neonazi in the sheep's game. The answer was: Of course not! He's a smart populist. – That was his answer, and that’s not exactly the same!" Ladies and gentlemen! These are only small excerpts from different letters. Europe is obviously beginning to rethink. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Do it, too! I don't want to point out to the Greens. Get off your high horse! Give up your spiteful reactions and be quiet opposition! Be a tough opposition from me, but look for your allies with the Austrian voters and not abroad, ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23176	The next speaker was Mrs Andrea Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23195	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now trying to return to an objective debate. You can sit back as you would like. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Is that a virgin speech?]] On the government statement we have heard today, I must say from a woman's political point of view that, despite little expectations, I was somewhat surprised to have to hear a woman's declaration of renunciation! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Quite the contrary!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What are you giving up?]] I had to say that women's policy is no longer in place, or at most as a footnote to family policy, and that the necessary lobby institution was also abolished for security reasons. One is very proud to have saved a ministry by safely abolishing the Ministry of Women. What do you offer women in terms of content? – They focus very much on how to better equip those who have opted for a life as a housewife and mother. Then make a big jump and again deal with those who want to break through the glass ceiling. You're right! This is an important problem. I'm just asking: What about the many very average women in between? What do you have to offer those? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A lot!]] Yes! For these women too, you have thought of something, because for these you have built a nice little labyrinth! If the women from this nice little labyrinth I would like to describe even more, however, they are clearly exposed to the danger of dependence. They are talking about freedom of choice and have built a three-step system by which you construct this so-called freedom of choice to decide. On the one hand, they de facto extend the leave period to two years for women. Okay, you can discuss what conditions this possibility should exist under. Although we know that any extension of the karenz period, especially in six months, significantly increases the risk that a woman will no longer be found in the labour market, at the same time you will not increase the return aid. On the contrary: There is more reason to fear that you want to save here! On the childcare facilities you have nothing to say but to appeal to the countries to expand in this area. They themselves have not planned any expansion. I therefore feel that this three-step system is a guide to women's unemployment! But perhaps you have a perspective, namely employment. In this context, you obviously follow an idea from Khol, a clubman who, in his civil society, sees particularly unemployed women as suitable for such services. In order not to go further in this direction, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] ==References== In October 1999 only women were elected, then we would have a completely different majority in this Parliament. If you look at your program, you can only say: The women chose this way for good reason! And we continue to feel obliged to address the interests of these women, to continue improving their living conditions and to ensure that they take care of the appropriate framework conditions. We will continue to take care of these women so that they do not get under the wheels!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23304	The motion for a resolution which has just been drawn up has been properly tabled and is therefore a debate. The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23328	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every observer – whether here in Parliament on the crowd or at home in front of the TV, any journalist or even just political interested people – will find that today's day, 9. ==References====External links==* Official website Ladies and gentlemen! It could be thought that someone who, like me in 1983, experienced the end of the angry Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky, who in 1986 saw the end of the hapless Federal Chancellor Sinowatz and the transition to Vrannitzky and then the transition from Vrannitzky to climate, someone who experienced in this House the actionism of the Greens of the first hour and the moments moving within me, when the first time a disabled person, that is, colleague Srb, spoke here, nothing more surprising. However, I must admit that I am more than surprised today: I am amazed at the departure of the previous government side, amazed at the style and pain you show, as well as the almost tangible anger and the visible frustration that some former ministers have shown here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Bad losers!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Old Chancellor climate is not here. To the speeches on this page it is said that I feel this as a weak idea of the current opposition. Only the old Edlinger tore you out today, ladies and gentlemen! That was the only opposition speech I really liked! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! I'll tell you: Another good speech by former Federal Minister Edlinger, and you're out of your job as a clubman! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Should notes also be distributed?]] On this side, on the government bank, there is a new dynamic team, which has a solid majority here in Parliament, presenting a very positive, ambitious government programme. And we, ladies and gentlemen, are behind it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, I would like to focus on the subject of disadvantaged communities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't have much time!]] Whether the classified population key in the financial compensation should still be valid in the year 2000, is indeed to be questioned. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No!]] I am very grateful to Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and to the chief negotiator for accepting this issue and for having been addressed today because I think it is a prelude that in communities such a different financial compensation – or should I say: Inequality? – exists. I'm just calling you a little example. My district Wels/Land has an area of 45 700 hectares. A city opposite has 4,500 hectares, one tenth of this area. Our district – with 24 municipalities – receives 370 million schilling, the ten-fold smaller city receives 559 million schilling. Whether this is just, I dare doubt. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Injustice!]] I call on the Federal Government and the High House, here finally and once for all, to eliminate the gradated population key.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23443	Mr Auer! Mr Edlinger is two years younger than me and only one year older than your clubman. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you can't see that!]] [[Abg. Auer: That was a praise!]] Mr Doppelmüller. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23486	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! My colleague Jakob Auer has it a little bit with old age, you have to forgive him. He's had to apologize for an old name – which I liked! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He's already retired!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ has shown during the last days that it is incalculable under this leadership. Therefore, it represents an incalculable risk for the image of Austria and for the economy. – Again, not a socialist who said that, but the head of the ÖVP, according to the "Economic Sheet" of 4. That is why Mr Wilfried Stadler has resigned on February. I still know him very well from the eco-fund, he's a very competent man. The amazing thing is that concerns are expressed from all circles, including conservative circles. There are several opinions from FCG today. There is an opinion from the Caritas, which you would have to add almost nothing more. But I am still responding to environmental policy in spite of the short period of time. If I were evil – what I really am not – I would say: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We'll see that first!]] I complain of the death of a 28-year-old child, born under Bruno Kreisky, with the help of Kurt Steyrer, who died under Wolfgang Schüssel after having been a stepmother and stepfather for some time. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's what we married now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Married!]] The last stepfather: The Greens have always suspected this, and I did not want to do so, because nothing has gone on in environmental policy – investment law, EIA – you have always said: an intermediate for the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You prevented that!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have prevented everything!]] I'm afraid I have to give you the right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You've blocked that!]] The March that plant law failed on us, after two ministers had scooped the ball for years and then quickly introduced something in the final effect, which the citizens would in principle have brought to the palm tree – it must be emphasized again and again. But although the child – that was just a joke – is dead, Minister of Agriculture Willi Molterer has now inherited it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, married!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good man!]] I must say, fairly, that he has always been better at negotiating with him than with Mr Bartenstein. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Water law – excellently made!]] Only Bartenstein in the Ministry of Economic Affairs – Bock has made him a gardener – still has a number of environmental agendas that I have concerns about. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's doing this with his colleagues!]] Commercial law. – Mr Fekter, I am sorry, then we have to consider it. The mountain law is also back at Bartenstein. Happy for you! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what we want to innovation now!]] Willi Molterer, however, has not only inherited pleasures. I believed today that we still have another Environment Minister. So far we had the Minister of the Interior as the Minister for the Environment, who had the fishing dump and the Berger-Deponie. That's what I thought: There's a little further now because he's been running the business as office manager for the successful district chief of Vienna's Neustadt, who has been running the business of Fischer-Deponie so quickly up to now. But unfortunately Willi Molterer inherited it, and now he has to pay the costs. I'm just afraid that this will eliminate the normal old load fund. But in recent years there have also been very ambitious, profound proposals from my colleagues, especially Mr Schweitzer. It will be a relative pleasure to see how these things will be implemented – at last in the same area, at the same Minister; also, colleague Aumayr, who has recently been thought to have already adopted her by colleague Schwarzenberger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23701	I call Mr Firlinger. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23722	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! When we hear the speakers of the Socialist Group speaking like this – even in the late hours of this debate – two things always go through. FPÖ, FPÖ and again FPÖ is a theme block. The second theme block is the joy of harm. But why are you so hurt, ladies and gentlemen? – You are indignant about the things that you have shocked in 30 years of the activity of socialist government participation! That's when a normal citizen comes to his head pretty slowly. But I am not going to stop discussing a few sentences on infrastructure policy within the framework of the government programme. There is a very encouraging basis in the government programme, ladies and gentlemen, that is the creation of a single transport and infrastructure unit. This is a long-standing demand of the liberals, it has been implemented, and I am very pleased about it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It concludes a long-standing dispute of competence, which in the past was disgraceful. They recall the infinite debates about who is to blame. Who's to blame for the Tauerntunnel accident? Which minister failed? Who is to blame for not ending a "Master Plan"? Who is to blame for these many endless debates? – I think the question of who is to blame will now finally disappear into the sinking. There are now clear structures, and the decision-making processes will be decisively reduced. I also think it is necessary to stress that within the framework of this newly created ministry a number of ambitious projects can be achieved with a dynamic new minister at the top. It is perfectly clear that it will be a matter of intense concern for liberalisation and competition in rail transport, in order to finally facilitate third-party access to rail infrastructure. [[Abg. Oils: Firlinger, where did you stay?]] It will finally be possible to draw up the long overdue federal road map and, with a list of priorities, to put Mr Oellinger into reality. It will be necessary – and this will be done, as I am sure – for independent regulatory authorities to be established in all infrastructure areas. There will also be an expansion programme, which will of course be determined – I say quite openly – by the dictatorship of empty cash, which the former Finance Minister Edlinger left behind. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the sober consequences we must have in mind. I would like to say to the Social Democrats: Listen Finally, please stop with this wretched attitude and with this hypocrites, that on the one hand you always insist on: Yes, you are interested in a de-escalation in the EU! and on the other hand, you are doing nothing but naked joy of damage! You certainly will not be fair to your future role as an opposition party. Stop this thing! If so, operate a proper opposition course, but not an opposition against yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23779	The next speaker is Mr Emmerich Schwemmlein.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23807	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Of course, it is more than a pity that a certain minister is no longer present on this bank, Mr Bartenstein, I would like to deal with the subject of tourism. [[Abg. Oillinger: But we still have a State Secretary!]] It is a pity, therefore, because this Federal Minister, Mr Bartenstein, spoke on the subject of tourism, in a way that I would like to give you an evaluation of which. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Very competent!]] The title of Mr Bartenstein: [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date]] "Optimistic for tourism". Bartenstein says he doesn't think there's a long-term damage to local tourism. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (keeping a newspaper edition in height) Emmerich! Today's Salzburger Zeitung!]] Mr Bartenstein, the Minister of Economic Affairs, who probably calls himself an expert, has today presented us with an even higher qualified expert as a State Secretary. I assume that Mrs. Mares Rossmannal's scene host "safe" has the appropriate qualification. It seems to me like I'd call myself an agricultural expert just because I'm mowing my own lawn. [[Abg. May. Main: But this is not the Academy...!]] – Mr Bartenstein, therefore, says: Even at the height of the Waldheim affair, tourism would have written a plus. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that I have had some discussions with those responsible for tourism, and I would like to tell you in advance: It's not about some form of scandal, it's about me to see how we can limit the damage –: The consequences are disastrous. We know that no one will know that tourism is one of the most sensitive areas, and that political unrest also has immediate consequences in tourism. If you don't believe it, then I assume that you give faith to a quote from the "Salzburger Nachrichten" – including the head of the country tourism advertising, Dr. Uitz – who actually says that the damage is getting bigger every day. It is therefore a question of how to deal with the situation. A problem which I see as absolutely important in this situation is how those responsible are reacting. We have had to experience an example of the saddest kind in Salzburg. I assume that not all of you know that Mr. Puttinger intends to relinquish his role as President of the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No!]] He certainly makes this clear from the thought of knowing that he has an excellent successor behind him. This excellent successor immediately supported his first appearance with an extremely "genial" statement – I would also like to show you this: [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article up to date]] "Selver shit on the plug." This was once the description of those responsible for tourism abroad, the governments, the representatives of tourism. This Mr Buemberger, who is to succeed as President of the Economic Chamber in Salzburg, said: They're supposed to "keep their mouths shut" abroad. I quote literally: "Many of them themselves have dirt on their own... And if anyone wants to stay at home, let him stay at home." Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! If you see your responsibility for the economy of this country, if you see your responsibility for tourism as one of your top officials, then a great disaster will come upon us! I'm curious how you take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23917	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Walter Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e23942	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to be an employee representative of the Austrian People's Party – thank you, ÖAAB! – respond to the claims that this ambitious programme of the Federal Government would mean a reduction and a burden for the workers sector. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Now the ÖAAB is talking!]] The exact opposite is the case! After years of fortification, after years of hole stopping, it is a question of providing a prospect for those who work in this country and work with their hands to create value! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Real discharges in the rent sector, real discharges in the energy price sector, of course real repayments for net wages, which clearly result from a reduction in labour costs – you can read this at Kramer to Streissler. Some of you will also be able to calculate that falling labour costs of course also mean rising net real wages. Second point, especially from the point of view of employees: The implementation of years of delayed and outlying programmes such as adapting the right to work to the real conditions of the working world of the 21st century. Century, compensation for 1.28 million workers in the event of illness, implementation of the years of abandoned age part-time, which, although already foreseeable, has not been implemented by the Ministry of Social Affairs, will bring social progress to the labour market and to considerably more workers – workers and employees. However, as the last point, I would also like to address the AMS. I consider it extremely frivolous, this ambitious programme, to create opportunities for long-term unemployed people to get back into the labour market, to prove with the historically burdened concept of "work service", and to point this out! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say another sentence on self-preservation. It has already been clarified children are excluded, including those in need of social protection, and an authorisation for health insurance companies. [[Abg. Edler: Walter, don't say anything!]] It will be precisely there that will determine which economies can operate and which will be handled with care. That is why, in a few years, we will have the representatives in these insurances elected, and that is why you are afraid of this programme because then those who are careful to deal with the contributions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I wish this Federal Government a great deal of success in implementing its ambitious programme for workers and for a modern social policy that provides assistance for self-help!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24008	The next speaker is Mr Günter Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! I would like to speak to my previous speaker. Mr Tancsits, do you know this resolution I have here? – This is the FCG’s resolution. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This is the first sentence: The FCG rejects the Coalition Agreement, since in its structure it is neither in accordance with the principles of the ÖVP nor with the principles of Christian social doctrine and is unsocial. - Quote. I suppose you from ÖAAB already have a close relationship with FCG. Or am I lying wrong? [[Abg. May. Tancsits: But we will also be those colleagues...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We send them to the Political Academy for training!]] Another one of my previous speakers was, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Firlinger. Mr Firlinger wanted to give us a lesson in opposition policy. I can understand that he's doing this because he's an expert in this field. He has finally had political experience in two parties, and therefore, of course, he has changed a little. But I can assure him: We will do our opposition policy very well ourselves and are not dependent on advice from others. We will make an opposition policy that is certainly constructive and perhaps different from what he means. Because one thing is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, This paper – for which I thank you very much and in which the first two pages are very precise, which has been done positively in recent times – has indeed, as I suppose, signed the FPÖ. It is therefore strange that you have been against everything and everyone until the end of the last legislative period, even against those things you have to answer in this paper today and which you yourself call positive. It is a line in here, ladies and gentlemen – and so I turn to the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Here!]] This day is passing, this day of joy and this mood of departure is passing. You will then have to live with your coalition partner. [[Federal Minister Dr. Krüger: After all, a start!]] This may not necessarily be very funny for you. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That won't be your concern!]] Because you can be sure that the next actions will be started. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What do you have for a mood today?]] I refer, for example, to the attitude of the FPÖ to the social partners. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Social partnership is an institution that has been supported by your founding fathers and has always been positive. However, it is totally destroyed by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true!]] I would like to say one more thing: Today, the expression has been: We will agree with the Chamber of Commerce, if not with Mr Leitl, at least with Mr Puttinger. Remember, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, which titulations You've always given the Chamber of Commerce? – Forced Chamber, Forced Membership, Forced Institution! You've never left a good hair in this chamber. I'm curious about what policy you want to make. There is another point that has made me very robust; Mr. Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs Schlögl has already spoken about this. Ladies and gentlemen! You've got in your paper that each 15. Service posts will be saved in the public service. There is also a link between parentheses: except schools and universities. – I haven’t read anything: internal security. That, ladies and gentlemen, makes me very stupid! If you calculate this, then more than 3,000 officials come out at a staff stand of 40,000 in the interior. Now I ask you – and I am very interested in this, ladies and gentlemen –: Save Are you joining the police? Or do you save them at the Gendarmerie? Where do you want to save them? You've always been talking about public security. You were the first – I think of Löschnak back when the debate on the post-combination took place at the time – you did as if public security were collapsing. It didn't happen! Today you are responsible for closing posts because you want to "transport" people here. You have to imagine this: About 3,000 employees – ladies and gentlemen: 3,000 employees! – you want to reduce the number. You have to get that over the rounds first! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Kiermaier, time's over!]] I think you will have great problems in this area. Another comment, ladies and gentlemen, because today is always being done all day as if we were going abroad to make a mood against you [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The last one!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is that not true?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't make the mood, you're doing hand-made actions!]] I would like to remind you once again very clearly, ladies and gentlemen: There were votes from their own camps from Belgium, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Spain – from the European People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "voice" is too little!]] Please note! [[Abg. Aumayr: You are not...!]] So you can't do that, so you can't use the method "Keep the thief!" It's going to do it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is climate today?]] I have three more motions for resolutions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is climate? We want an explanation of what he did in Stockholm!]] The first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God, the Toni Leikam!]] [[Abg. Leikam: Here you look!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Faucet Weapons Prohibition! That's not even true!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In Carinthia! The Carinthians are chasing him away!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] The next request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] The third request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24391	The motions for resolutions tabled by the former Member, Mr Leikam, Mr Ludmilla Perfuss and Mr Gradwohl, are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Leopold Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24422	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! It's interesting: I have 13 or 14 motions for resolutions tabled by the SPÖ today. Where have your initiatives and your ideas been in the last 30 years? Now at the first meeting in which a new government, an initiative, dedicated team, introduces your ideas! – I think this is actually an evidence of poverty for your government work in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But for us today is a great day. A cabinet full of elan, engaged and with political visions has presented itself. It has been presented a statement of government that bears the liberal manuscript and will be the guideline for a political era, Mrs. Mertel, which will make people more free, self-confident and independent. [[Abg. Oil: What? We will then make a real correction!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, this is now...!]] You can already feel the positive mood for a good future outside – perhaps not in your surroundings, but in the area where I am staying – and for an upturn in our Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me today is a particularly important day, as old freedom demands for a pool of expertise in the field of technology and infrastructure are granted and more space is provided. A ministry dedicated in particular to infrastructure and the technological development of our homeland will be introduced. A clear commitment is made to the fact that the research rate is to be significantly increased to the European average, yes, through the European average. Austria needs to be re-elected as a top-ranking place for European research – I am very pleased about this commitment. Ladies and gentlemen! The long-term demand for pooling skills and efficient use of resources is also being met. The universities will be able to breathe through. They will be freer, they will be relieved of bureaucracy, and they will be able to devote themselves to their actual task, research and teaching, better and more directly. Mr Niederweiser, study fees are certainly not a subject for us at the moment. All in all: a dedicated program. We will have to do everything we can to implement this programme relatively quickly and on time in the interests of the Austrian population. I congratulate the new government on this dedicated programme and a genuine happiness!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24484	The next speaker was Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24506	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr Schöggl, you have said here that you feel the good mood outside, the upswing. I don't know where you feel. I feel – and I am not alone in this House – oppression and insecurity in the population, and I know from many considerations and questions about how things are going on in this Austria. The innumerable critical statements in Germany and abroad probably do not confirm the good mood you have spoken about here. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Not even the "Kronen Zeitung" believes this more!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You haven't been in contact with the people for a long time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the government statement by the Federal Chancellor Schüssel on education was not particularly exciting. I think it was too poor for a future-oriented education policy in our country. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why?]] In particular, it does not go far beyond keywords and keywords as far as school policy measures are concerned. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There is three times as much inside as in what you have done!]] The only really concrete measure I would like to address is the "computer billion", which sounds good and which we all welcome very much, only: How to finance it can't be read anywhere. With great interest, however, I have heard the sentence of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who is here... – I do not want to deal populistly with education, Mr Schweitzer, but already with competence! [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Dieter! What has come to pass from what you have proposed? What happened?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What has been stretched out from you?]] Schussel has said that a state that invests in education secures people's life and work opportunities and strengthens the economy. - Right and good. That's what we're emphasizing. However, there are also conflicting statements. The former Federal Minister for Education and the current Minister for Education announced something else yesterday in an APA issue. Regrettably, she said the sentence: "The state can no longer afford to remain free of charge from the cradle to the Bahre. In addition, she said, "the principle of what costs nothing is worth nothing." There are two conflicting statements in the room. However, I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that Minister of Education Gehrer has been more open and honest here and has expressed what Black-Blue will really give us in the field of education in the future, namely, savings measures. It is no longer a question of ensuring the principles of equal opportunities, social justice and free access to educational institutions – and this has always been our credo for a forward-looking education policy – but it is planned here that education should no longer be the task of public authorities, but will become more and more private, and that it may soon be called: Whoever wants education, or better: whoever wants more education, should buy it. This, ladies and gentlemen, goes seamlessly into the entire programme of the Black and Blue Government, which has apparently attached itself to social reduction, deterioration for workers, pensioners, the unemployed and the sick. If you, ladies and gentlemen, really want to and will take this path, then you will certainly have to expect massive resistance from the SPÖ! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24619	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24640	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me close almost to the conclusion of today's debate on the government programme of a conservative and a right-wing populist party with a few brief personal conclusions. I have put up the great willingness to measure you by your actions, and I assume that the actions you want to implement are those that you announce in this government agreement that you have taken. But it is precisely these announced acts that are so worrying to me, as have many colleagues who have expressed this in their contributions today, as well as many citizens who, in order to express themselves and to draw attention to the fact that they are concerned about this country and about what you want to put into reality, only have the opportunity to go to the streets and articulate their protest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to go further into the fact that it has been clearly stated that this is a very unsocial programme that you want to implement here, that it is socially weak and that it affects women. Many of my colleagues have listed this. It is clearly in your program that it comes to a redistribution of the poorest to the richest, from the weakest to the stronger. I would therefore ask you to put in words what you are planning, so that the citizens actually know what is happening to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You know the problems of tenants are very important to me. That's what I do every day. I try to make sure that tenants in this country come to their right to be protected from excessive rents and illegal redemptions. That is why I would also like to focus very briefly on this aspect of your government agreement on the question of rental rights and the protection of tenants. What were your words about this? – The FPÖ’s words on the topic of tenants in this country were: Lower rent. What do you really do, as you put it in the government programme? – They intervene in existing rental contracts! If people have had a rental contract for over 30 years and have been agreed in this rental, then you will intervene in it – but not in the interest of the tenants, but you increase the rent! [[Abg. Neudeck: You have introduced the conservation contribution!]] No talk about reducing rents! You increase rents and destroy legal certainty by intervening in existing contracts! This is a scandal and happens solely from the interest of giving homeowners a basket money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Your colleague, would you like to join us for the crown of peace?]] Second point: Their words also read: Reduce operating costs. What are your actions? – The electricity tax. What does this mean? – It means quite specifically: Electricity price increases for all families, for all households. – These are your actions! And this can be continued, for example in the field of termination protection: They do away with everything that is in the interests of the tenants of Austria. [[Abg. Neudeck: Channel fees and home delivery charges and the 20 percent VAT – that's more than the owner's collected!]] Your words, they're populist, they're out on election. But by your actions we will measure you, not only me, but, I hope, also the tenants! The "small" tenants are you wurst! That was always clear to me. The FPÖ represents a client policy. It represents the interests of real estate agents – there are also some among you – and it represents the interests of homeowners. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is better than the biggest houselord, the municipality of Vienna! The municipality of Vienna is unsocial!]] You have already received thanks from the property and property trustees for what you have formulated in this government program. To quote the "Kurier": "Austria's houselords can soon enjoy more rights with their tenants." – This is what the tenants owe to your anti-terrorist program! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The municipality is the largest excavator in rents!]] But the question is: Is it just client policy that's being run here? – That would be nothing new to me, the ÖVP has done in recent years. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: The SPÖ not?]] The new point is, however, that you are obviously still subject to this principle: The one hand washes the other. What do I mean by that? – If an industry such as the real estate trustee obviously finances your party president’s helicopter flights when a real estate industry obviously invests in any noble residence in the Carinthian street for your party president – he doesn’t know what to rent...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24759	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I recall the voluntary limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24774	... – and if, as I may quote, "a touchy construction contractor from Carinthia Haider's parties is financed", then one hand washes the other in this case too! [[Abg. Haigermoser: And who financed the free flights for Mr. Vranitzky? That won't have been the WestLB, will it?]] Haider judges it, and the Zeche pays the Austrian tenants! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That won't be the CA or Bank Austria...?]] The winners are homeowners, and the losers in this program are the tenants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My dear! After all, I have long had the suspicion that the FPÖ both the tenants and the "small" people – this has happened today in the debate, I think, also clearly shown – are completely irrelevant, but I have not had the proof so far. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: Just continue the class struggle, Mrs. Colleague!]] This government agreement is proof that it is sausage! It is likely that the following motions for resolutions, which I have tabled, are further proof that you have nothing to do with the interests and concerns of these people, but quite the contrary. Therefore, as we have already made this in the last legislative period, I submit applications in the interest of the tenants. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, I would like to make this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will measure you in the vote on your actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24956	The four motions for resolutions just presented are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e24983	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned several times today that this government, even before it has entered into its official business, has done immeasurable damage to our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have absolutely no joy of harm, because the burdens, the costs for this government, must be borne by all Austrians. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: How was that before?]] I'm not just talking about material losses: 75 billion schilling of stock exchange value lost in a few days! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's all the other way around!]] It is mainly about the moral damage that this country has taken. Ladies and gentlemen! I am ashamed – and also you from the People's Party are involved – that people everywhere in Europe are looking at Austria with concern – and this in view of our burdened past – that there have been hundreds of worried callers in a BBC broadcast. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Shame! That's good!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I am ashamed that there are Jewish citizens in this country who are actually afraid of the future. [[Interlocutory call from Mr Haigermoser and Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] One should have taken away Dr. Haider's passport in autumn, because his journey through Europe has led exactly to what we find here today. [[Protests at the Freeman]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Protesting protests at the liberals.]] It is also a novum that the President of the Federal Republic – and I would like to thank him at this point for his exemplary conduct, for he knew differently from our Foreign Minister what is going on in this country – has had a Preamble presented to the Heads of Government of the Coalition Parties for signature – Mr. Dr. Khol, you know that this is a novum – which called for respect for democracy and human rights. This shows that it is necessary because there is no common moral understanding between ÖVP and FPÖ. You know exactly: In the last legislative period, there were four parties here in this area, which, when it came to social policy issues, were all on the same consensus – perhaps not always, but predominantly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not always!]] It has always hit a party over the strands. And now you are trying to bring the FPÖ to the level of legality. I wish you a lot of pleasure! I'm afraid the FPÖ will pull you down. Since Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has said here that we are proud to be part of Europe, I say: I am proud to be a European, and I am also glad that I live in the European Union at those times. You, Dr. Khol, said that there are four parties within the Constitutional Arch, but today we are experiencing that the European Union says that a European federal government is outside the European community of values. I find that very embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Merciful! It's already late, colleague!]] I admit that some reactions are exaggerated. I do not believe – and I am convinced – that the liberals are not National Socialists. This would really detract from National Socialism. [[Call the liberals: What? That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are not normal!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that serious?]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Get down!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This is a scandal!]] [[Continued loud protests at the liberals.]] But especially in the sensitive phase of European integration today...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25191	Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't hear the expression. I shall immediately have the minutes come and respond accordingly. [[Abg. Gaugg: (in the direction of Abg. Jäger) What do you think you are?]] [[Further protests at the liberals.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your voluntary speaking time is over; I draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25261	I didn't... [[Further protests at the liberals.]] No, you missed me...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25292	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me remind you once again that your voluntary speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25313	I submit the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25468	The motion for a resolution just presented is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Because of the fact that up to now it has not been possible to find out how the actual statement has been said, I interrupt the session for a short time and seek to listen to the tape in the meantime to have an exact play of the statement. [[Abg. Aumayr: This is what we want to hear loud!]] I'm looking for the clubmen to come to me. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 23.43 a.m. and resumed at 23.48 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25501	I'll start the interrupted session again. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25534	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has been feared: If one cannot become a democratic master of a political opponent, then one comes to the idea whether he would not be a better opponent as a dead opponent. What we have experienced in the last few days, especially since yesterday, is immense – to present it in peace and quiet. It has been quoted by honourable Member Vassilakou from the Vienna Landtag, who has said that the government belongs to the earth, or she was under the earth, and there she belongs. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You've shortened that and misquoted it!]] Then comes the story with the so-called ORF blunders who say in their interview: "The only table where you can see yourself with Haider is the obduct table on which it lies." [[Abg. Haigermoser: crazy!]] Then one stupid, Grissemann – the other is called Stermann – says: I think you'd have to shoot Haider. Someone who only has two months to live. – I wonder: Please, where are we? I wonder, Where are we?- Oh, my God! Then comes the statement, we're not National Socialists, because that would mean deceiving National Socialism, and then comes the call to take away a citizen's passport. I would like to thank Mrs Collaborative for not knowing what she is saying in this regard – whether this is a statement towards Gestapo or towards KGB. Take a pass is only there or there going and give it. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Greens and the Freeman in relation to the quotation of the Green Members to the Vienna Landtag Vassilakou.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Some people can't be so good German!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... the Greek culture!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You don't understand!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's all a misunderstanding!]] I am really deeply shocked at the fact that a Member is hiding on such statements and that a former Minister of the Interior welcomes them. That means, in fact, I would say, for both of you, the immediate withdrawal from this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25643	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Christine Muttonen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25667	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! I think you really have to watch and listen very carefully when such sentences fall. I think this is very important, because if you had listened carefully, you would have heard that in this case you have not been brought near the National Socialism at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Then you just have to break the sentence on the tongue and think what that means: They are not to be placed on a level with National Socialism. That was the statement! [[Abg. Aumayr: That's pathetic! It's indescribable!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You're not going to be on a level! You just have to listen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Stop it!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] I would like to refer to the Declaration of Government, which is the chapter on art and cultural policy. If you look at this more closely, you can see that this chapter is of particular importance in the government programme, but the emphasis is particularly on the care of the old and traditional, i.e. the so-called folk culture. That's good. However, as less good I feel that the term "temporary culture and art" seems to be a foreign word and does not occur at all. This is no wonder, because the FPÖ and the inhaler of our chief chancellor from Carinthia are finally involved. I mean the cultural representative Andreas Mölzer, who doesn't have too much joy with contemporary culture. Rather, he is pleased that the time – as he says – is the "temporary cultural bureaucrats who, with tax money over the heads of the citizens, congratulates, well or ill-deserved cultural journalists under the applause of owned cultural journalists". – That’s not an old work, you can read it, it’s in the official Kärntner Landeszeitung of December 1999. Times have changed. Even if you sometimes feel that the Creed is supposedly sold out in Vienna, the state of the falsified gentleness will probably not last for that long. I can tell you how it will be with art and culture, according to old-fashioned patterns: Failures, restrictions, excuses, insults, evasions and disputes. In Carinthia we already know very well. We already have the sample gallop behind us. We know what cultural policy is for the FPÖ. For example, we have a sea stage, which was very expensive, at the FPÖ events. We have a Peter Turrini, who rejects a state order for good reason: He feels – as he says – that he is defamed and ridiculed by the FPÖ. We have a Ronald Rainer who returns the building culture prize, we have a PEN club and a Musil house that are starved. There are finished projects that are simply not carried out in the last moment without reason. And we also have an Ingeborg Bachmann Prize, which can no longer be called that. The reason for this is the shameful politics in Austria. But that doesn't matter! Dr. Haider doesn't want him anymore, he's too sterile and too unattractive. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Morak will work for this!]] – Yes, Mr Morak will work for it, that is good! As the experts among you know, this is one of the most important literary events and one of the most important literary awards in Austria. But the FPÖ doesn't care, because with contemporary art and culture it has nothing to do with hat! How could the FPÖ's cultural policy be described? – Maybe like a Carinthian newspaper did: "Hold, strangled, and bursted." Thus, the cultural policy of the FPÖ in Carinthia was called by a newspaper. If the argument comes: Let's talk about actions, then I'll give you the right to: Let's talk about actions! Actions have already spoken, a lot. Not one or two incidents, but a permanent increase of artists draws like a red thread through the statements of the FPÖ faithful: Think of the attacks on Thomas Bernhard! Think of the attacks on Erich Fried and Elfriede Gerstl! And Claus Peymann and Elfriede Jelinek, in their opinion, should leave the country. – The horror and horror of inhuman het campaigns against so-called fake artists is still very deep in us! And so on. Culture is a high priority in the government programme. Apparently, the importance is so high that artists reject prizes, withdraw, leave the country, cancel contracts or go to the street. But not because they want to become state artists, but because they want to live and work in an open, democratic and multicultural atmosphere. Ladies and gentlemen! I see black for art and culture in a blue-black government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25767	Member of the Jäger! On the statement made by you, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What statement?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] The text of the statement is as follows: "I admit that some reactions have been covered. I do not believe – and I am convinced – that the liberals are not National Socialists. This would really detract from National Socialism." [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Mr Morak said that in the "NEWS" too!]] The wording is clearly a double denial. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Why?]] She said: "I don't believe – and I'm convinced – that the liberals are not National Socialists." - It's a call for order. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is inconceivable!]] And I beg you... [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs Inge Jäger was notified to me as a speaker. – Ladies and gentlemen, if you please come to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25862	I even recorded it. I said: Without a doubt, some reactions have been covered. The FPÖ are not National Socialists for me. [[Lively calls to the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What about it?]] [[Call the liberals:And how did it go on?]] I have partly spoken freely. You're not a National Socialist for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e25921	Ladies and gentlemen! In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall vote, and we shall first vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr Mertel and Mr Comrades on the work of women. [[Unrest in the hall.]] – Ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking you to pay attention! I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Niederwieser and others on the maintenance of free access to higher education in Austria. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who are here. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Eder and Mr Comrades on the abolition of registration fees in the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Haigermoser: If Mrs. Jäger withdraws this, I agree!]] I ask those members of the House who stand for it to be a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jarolim and Mr Comrades on § 209 of the Criminal Code. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Jarolim and Mr Comrades on the equality of living partners with regard to the right of entry under the Law on Rental Law. I would ask those Members of the House who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mertel and others on re-entry aid for women. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Leikam and Mr Comrades on the Novelle on the law on arms. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Parfuss and Mr Comrades on budgetary, organisational and human resources for the creation of a Federal Animal Protection Act within the meaning of the popular desire signed by 460 000 Austrians. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the proposal for a modulation on the fairer and more ecological distribution of agricultural support by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry by the end of March 2000. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bures and Mr Comrades on the limitation of time-limitation in the rental law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bures and Mr Comrades on the reduction of rents by limiting supplements to the indicative value. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bures and Mr Comrades on the removal of fictitious home delivery costs to tenants. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Bures and Mr Comrades on the reduction of real estate commissions and the setting of maximum rates in the Consumer Protection Act. I am looking for those members of the House who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Mertel and Mr Comrades on the implementation of the demands of women's people. Whoever stands up for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26076	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Lunacek and comrades on the establishment of an investigation committee on reasons, causes, timing and political responsibility for the foreign policy isolation of Austria. Since this request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament, it does not need to be read by the author. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26127	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Lunacek. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26157	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! After not only the list of motions for resolutions has been exhausted, but, as I think, the nerves of those present here and of us ourselves, which we have been sitting here for a long time, I will not stretch your and our nerves for a very long time, nor will the ten minutes be exhausted. But the reason why we call for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to clarify the reasons, the causes, the sequence of time and the political responsibility for the foreign policy isolation of Austria is that we have not heard any convincing arguments and reasons that go beyond mutual accusations in yesterday's debate on our urgent question and the request for distrust or today. A clarification of this actual political responsibility for isolation, which not only affects the government that is sitting here, but which, in part, also suffers from this country and the people in that country, has not yet happened. On the one hand, it still stands a conspiracy theory in space. Mr Schweitzer spoke of an intrigue. On the other hand, the Federal President... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I quoted "Focus"!]] They quoted it as an intrigue. Good! On the other hand, President Klestil said yesterday that the assessment rests on a misevaluation by the former Foreign Minister. We share this opinion and, as I believe, we have had enough reason to do so. However, we Greens are the only parties represented in this House who have not played in the government poker of the last four months – on no side – and we would like to know now how this scrapping pile has come about. A few days ago, the head of the party of the Freeman Jörg Haider wanted to know. He said that on Sunday on a TV show. He has announced that the Freedom Party will require an investigation committee. – Unfortunately, this announcement has not been followed. I hope that this is not a sign that the Declaration of Government will not be implemented either and will not follow suit. [[Lively discussions in the banking series of the Freemans.]] – If we could listen to colleagues who are free, it would be a pleasure! Also Klubchef Westenthaler, who is now very busy, has said in "daily everything" of today that the investigation committee is not yet out of the table. Mr Westenthaler, in the event that: If you don't put a request on the table, we'll do it with this today. We also give the Liberal Party an opportunity to implement its announcement concerning the establishment of an investigation committee, as it has called for it itself. [[Further discussions in the banking series of the Freemans.]] – I do not know if I can ask Mr President to ask colleagues from the Freedom Party to listen to me! If not, we'll see how they vote. In any case, we give the liberals the opportunity to agree to the setting up of an investigation committee to clarify this responsibility. If they don't, we can only find here that they're under the EIA's spatula.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26207	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. The next item is Mr Alfred Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26240	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! For several days now, it has been tried to distract from the international blamage of government formation by the constant spread of rumors about different responsibilities for these international sniper clusters. I believe that it is time to put the cards on the table and clarify at what time what information was known to and what reactions have been made to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I believe that a committee of inquiry is best suited to bring transparency into this matter. I am clearly of an opinion on this question with the FPÖ Partyman Jörg Haider, who announced this on Sunday during the "press hour", and assumes that all those political forces who do not have to be afraid that anything unpleasant might appear for them, and that all those political forces that have a pure conscience and nothing to hide will be open to the establishment of such a committee of inquiry! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The question arises as to what individual announcements are worth. The Austrian Government has tried to get out of this malaise of government formation by adopting a preamble to the Federal Government's declaration, and the question of how seriously this preamble will be taken if the President of the Federal Government rejects a proposed minister, Mr Kabas from Vienna, with the Reference to the posters used in the election campaign, and the same Mr. Kabas stands up and says he is proud that he was rejected as Minister of the Federal Government. What is the value of the text of this Preamble when a representative of the FPÖ enters the meaning of this Preamble with feet? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There seems to be much need for information in this context. As social democrats, we are interested in a comprehensive, restless investigation. We agree to the establishment of this Committee of Inquiry and assume that all those who do not agree have a lot to hide.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26296	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26317	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Another word to Mrs. Jäger: I have something against it when a speaker whispers his text and turns away from the auditorium, because no one knows what will be in the Minutes. We have a right to hear what the speaker is talking about at the speaker's desk. Mrs. Jäger should also be directed to stick to it in the future. Therefore, the clubman is also called upon to say to her: Mrs Colleague, speak in such a way that everyone can hear it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] Now on the other subject. – If I look at Mrs Lunacek’s request, I can only say: I don't want to plant relatively much. Because everyone who reads the papers, turns on television and sharpens the ears can answer without the committee of inquiry what reasons and what causes there are here. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] He may have read in the newspapers that, when the constituencies had not even been cleared away, an Austrian top politician in retirement and a well-known editor of a renowned Austrian weekly newspaper gave interviews in Washington and New York, in which they warned of what is happening in Austria. – At that time I thought: If they're talking like that, then we'll have a lot of things to do! Then I saw, as an attentive observer of the ORF, that one at the feast was on the 12th. For a long time from TV watching with a taferl in front of the camera, on which stood: "No Holidays in Naziland!" Then someone else should say who is guilty of it if those who see it abroad don't come! The liberal or the one hopping there, or the television that brings pleasure? Then the story with the marathon. – It is explained: The Jewish citizens in New York are just waiting to beat the Haider off the street. - No one was there! I spoke to an Austrian journalist who was over there. He said that only twelve Austrians were there. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There were 13 Austrians!]] One is said to have been a former press representative of the Liberal Forum. The Jewish citizens have said: Who's the Haider? We don't even care! We have experienced – this has only been done too rarely – that a Member named Swoboda in Brussels has called on the other delegates to protect the Austrian people from his government or to help the Austrian people against the government. And we have experienced a hateful Member of Parliament, Voggenhuber, who has repeatedly said very emphatically in all broadcasts in large-scale recording: Haider's a fascist! The Freedom Party is a neofascist party! – First of all, this is an answer to the question of who is to blame for the fear of people! But should you not actually kill a fascist in a somewhat more relaxed way of thinking? That can't really be such a terrible thing! – This is the first stage, since the violence in the language I always hear from becomes very clear! When I hear that there are calls that one has to stand up for a quick commitment on 18th, I think of the 19th, because the 19th. February is the day of which the organizers of the vortex say on the street: That's where our friends from abroad come from! [[Abg. May. Posch: Is that Valentine's Day?]] – It will become particularly massive! That's where I'm afraid! Luckily I'm not in Austria, and to you they won't come to Carinthia! You can get out there! But the poor Vienna, the poor cars, the poor outlets! The editions of Backhausen in the Kärntner Straße are already broken! That's what the dear friends from abroad will do, who didn't call the Harald Ofner, but the organizers out there who have their wires in there! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's the world conspiracy!]] All we've experienced in the last two days is the naked polemic from the beginning to the end. [[Abg. Edlinger: I'll give you the right!]] The request concerning the Committee you are making is a malicious request! This willful request is political polemic! Those who know it best – better than I – then make the request! [[Live calls.]] You know the wiredrivers, I've told you before, you know. You have a slight laugh. You're wearing the beaver mask. You have a slight laugh, Professor. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I'll share with you what I know!]] You all know, you can laugh at us, because you're informed about the things I think you do. [[Prolonged calls.]] We are against it for another reason: We sent a letter to the President of the Federal Republic and asked for information. If we have the answer, we'll see what we're doing. But please also give us something about your knowledge about road terrorism and similar things. We would like to learn something in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26451	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26470	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The "New Volksblatt" of yesterday reads: ‘Opposition chief’ on holiday. Climate is unknown to Parliament". I understand that. I don't want to put it that hard, but I just want to say: After these difficult days, the Federal Chancellor has earned himself his vacation, which he now enjoys. He must know for himself whether he should have been here today. I and all of us would have liked it because he takes a key position in clarifying the accusations, the accusations that have come from abroad and have been researched by journalists. He needs an explanation of what really happened in Stockholm. [[Abg. Leikam: Let's make a committee!]] He needs explanation, which was really discussed behind the scenes. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: There is a committee for this!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party! [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: Committee! Committee!]] Give your old Federal Chancellor the chance to come here and, before a committee is installed, to give his own interpretation. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Then we'll decide: Was that credible, or did he bring us rumors? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to wait for what Mr Klima has to tell us before we make a committee. [[Abg. Leikam: Committee!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens: Committee!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens' request is not about the abuse of Austria from abroad. They themselves know where she comes from and why she is. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Chirac!]] I think you do. They are about to quote our former Foreign Minister and current Chancellor in front of a committee. [[Abg. Leikam: This is the cause!]] Mr Pilz did a embarrassing question yesterday. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] He explained to us that he telephoned with Portugal, he telephoned with Brussels – perhaps Moscow was among them too, perhaps he asked the Salzamt, and perhaps he got a legal information on the tombstone of Karl Marx. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Dr. Schüssel told all of us yesterday to be credible and intrusive as to how it really was. [[Abg. Leikam: Maria, Maria!]] So there's nothing to explain here, it's all gone. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Shrew! Hypocrites!]] Mr. Pilz could have saved the phone costs in order to bring light into the dark – he would have preferred to spend the money on the action "Light into the dark" that would have been a failure. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not accept the mushroom dishes, and it is green tubular mushrooms that you want to serve us from the speaker's mouth today. You should eat them yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we refuse them! [[Calls to the Greens.]] We will agree to the setting up of an investigation committee if there are facts on the table when Mr Altbundekanzler has been able to express himself if he has had the opportunity here to tell us about what really happened and what was going on after his vacation, from which he will come back. [[Abg. Leikam: It's embarrassing, embarrassing!]] We shall then consider whether we agree to the establishment of such an investigation committee. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the clear statement and attitude of the Austrian People's Party. But I'll tell you one thing: They will still be laughing if the facts that will come are true. [[Abg. Where?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Then you will have to do abbit, and then there may also be again convictions, as was the case in the case of Sinowatz. I hope not, but the possibility is given. In this sense, we are waiting for the answer, for the correct position, for the statement by Mr Altbundeskanzler. Then we will decide whether to set up an investigation committee or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26689	Mrs Lichtenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26711	Ladies and gentlemen! On the subject of Examining Committee I have today – knowing that you have called for very much from the liberal side, that all the events about the results of Austrian government formation between Blue and Black, in an isolation of foreign countries, can be clarified – actually a speech prepared about the particular nature of the investigation committee that would be in front of us here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Sorry, you don't understand anything!]] It would be an investigation committee that would have to answer some very interesting questions from Austria, including historically interesting ones, namely, how it can happen that people in Austria, parliamentarians with high access to information, are able to understand conspiracy theories and believe that Europe is sitting on the phone, waiting to see if anyone from Austria would call them to tell them what they should do to tell them to adopt measures. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We already know his strategies! They're easy to see!]] Have you ever looked at the map of Europe? Have you ever looked at the conditions of powers, balances of power and European policy in Europe? – And then you come here and develop these conspiracy theories! [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Now we would have had the opportunity to deal with all these issues in a committee of inquiry – which the liberals have also called for – with all that belongs to them, with a duty of truth and with other drums and Dran. But it has already been said in the "Kurier" – and I have been able to take this early enough – that, although the liberals would have had a very strong influence on this committee of inquiry, they have now clearly been squeaked back and now even have to argue very strongly against it. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There's something confused!]] These conspiracy theories would have all been insufficient for a committee of inquiry unless high-treason accusations had been raised from your ranks. But these treasons are no longer just the accusation of a criminal act, but they go far beyond that. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is the case of the court!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The air is already outside, Mrs. Colleague!]] This Parliament would already have the right to investigate this and look at it all. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs. Colleague, the air is already outside!]] Look, Mr Intercessor, I'm not ready to hear this fraternization, which was in the first place, because you were unable to follow a speaker in a double denunciation, to listen once again! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's really the height!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you of the same opinion as Mrs. Jager?]] Mr Grossruck has made it much easier in the argument. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you of the same opinion as Mrs. Jager?]] He argued quite simply and simply [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you of the same opinion or not?]] Since the request comes from the Greens and the word "pilz" suggests an analogy to "knobbles", one cannot agree to this request. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you of the same opinion as Mrs. Jager?]] He has made it easy – as simple as many people in this House often do – to reject this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Are you of the same opinion as Mr. Jäger?]] Gentlemen! Within a few days, you have managed to prevent exactly what you have always called for, with vehemence. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We have the power to create a mood of departure!]] If it is said that Mr Altbundeskanzler should come and speak and answer here, and at the same time one wants to prevent an investigation committee – please, as transparent as this argument is, you must explain this to your electorate, I think, very clearly. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Klima!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr. Klima, where is he?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: How can you make holidays while here is a meeting? That's a mistake at all!]] Besides you also resort to these cheap arguments that a request from the Greens...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e26994	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over! [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Lunacek and comrades on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-02-09-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00009_d7e27036	I'm still announcing – I'm asking for some attention! – that in today’s session, the self-employed applications were submitted 86/A and 87/A. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[Abg.: (in the direction of SPÖ) You will learn the opposition already!]] Question No 332/J to 353/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, I call for today, 0.30 o'clock, which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
