ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00053_d7e473	I'll open the 53. Meeting of the National Council. The Members of Parliament, Dr. Ofner, Fischl, Dr. Antoni, Gaál, Parnigoni, Mr Reitsamer, Mr Reitsamer and Mr Vergestnitsch, have been reported as prevented. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00053_d7e504	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Address by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00053_d7e659	Ladies and gentlemen! We're at the end of the 53. Meeting of the National Council. It is at the same time the last meeting this year. I have been made aware that in strict interpretation – if you do the counting as it should be – you could even say that this is the last session in this millennium. This does not change the fact that we have a very busy year behind us. I'm not going to try to make any reviews now. This is to be done by science that will certainly do this best. My task is simply to express a very, very warm word of thanks to the staff of the House, the staff of the parliamentary groups and the staff of the individual Members before Christmas and before the end of the year and after this last sitting on your behalf. [[General condolences.]] There are also outside of the house ladies and gentlemen who work with us, for example the ladies and gentlemen of the media, the editors of the programme "Hohes Haus" and others. A warm word of thanks to them too! But above all, ladies and gentlemen, as members of the National Council, I can wish you a nice holiday and good rest! I would like you to know that by the end of the year there will be a lot to be done that you will return to work at the beginning of next year in a healthy and strengthened way! Finally, on behalf of the Austrian National Council, I can traditionally wish the Austrian people a beautiful and peaceful year 2001! The sitting is closed. (General applause. – The club members of all four political groups go to the Bureau to express their wishes to President Dr. Fischer.)
