ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1591	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you very warmly, ask you to take the places and open the 24th. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9 a.m. ==References====External links== Meeting of 10. It is therefore deemed to be approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, Mr. Ing. Mr Gerhard Bauerund, Member of the European Parliament. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1628	The Federal Chancellor's Office has issued a communication on a resolution by the Federal President concerning the representation of Ms. Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldnerby Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Wilhelm Molterer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1655	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to those referred to in § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1826	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 767/J by Dr Petrovic and comrades to the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State concerning the State before the date of entry into the agenda. For the purposes of the provisions you all know, this urgent request will be made at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 378/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1853	I shall also inform you before receipt of the agenda that there is a request based on § 92 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a short debate on the reply to the question 378/AB concerning foreign civil servants. The answer to the question comes from the Minister for the Interior, Mr Leikam's request. The short debate will take place at the end of the debate on the urgent question, as it has just been announced for today's sitting that a urgent request will be put to the vote at 3 p.m. I would ask you to take note of this. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1880	We are going into today's agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1901	This debate was discussed in advance at the Presidential Conference, and consensus has been reached on the fact that we can set a day-block time of 8 "Vienna hours" for today's meeting. This day-block time results in a speaking time of 156 minutes for the SPÖ, of 116 minutes each for the ÖVP and the Freeman as well as 92 minutes for the Greens. As far as the speaking times of the members of the government are concerned, the same rules are proposed as they were applied yesterday and yesterday, namely: The term of office of a minister who is 20 minutes, or a State Secretary who exceeds 10 minutes, shall be taken into account by the respective government group. These proposals are to be found in the House. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. It is then decided unanimously. Advisory Group VI Chapter 12: Education and culture (including economic compensatory estimate) Chapter 14: Science (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1948	We shall proceed to the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI. There is no wish for oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mr Antoni spoke. The maximum speaking time for each speaker is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e1978	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Good morning on the third day of the budget debate! I assume that it will continue in the same way as in the last few days, especially because we find it disappointing and worrying about the 2000 budget forecast chapter. Disappointing, therefore, because it does not contain any innovative approaches to make our education system more flexible and transparent. There are no necessary measures for internationalisation in order to meet the challenges of the new labour markets in the economic field and thus to maintain future opportunities for our young people. This budget also lacks the necessary principles of vocational and life-long learning and adult education. This challenge is also not taken into account. Furthermore, this budget does not contribute to the urgent need for further development and the urgent need to strengthen our middle and higher education. . We all know that we need thousands of jobs, thousands of experts in the information and technology field, and I can hardly find any approaches to this. Finally, I miss a further focus on reducing existing educational barriers in order to ensure equal opportunities for all young people in our state. We fear that some will stay on the track. This budget estimate is alarming for us, too, because, as we appreciate it, existing structures in our education are not once again affected, but rather they are cemented. I therefore believe that this budget continues to reflect structural conservatism and a certain ideology. Children and young people of low-income families are losers of this policy! [[Call the ÖVP: Go, stop it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! In almost each of your speeches of the last days, when the work of the last legislative periods was discussed, it was to be heard: The SPÖ is the Preventer Party! The SPÖ is not ready to change structures! The SPÖ is not brave enough to accept new challenges! She's the blocker party! – Ladies and gentlemen! I will now give you some comprehensible examples from the field of education that show that it was more reversed. I admit: We have made a number of important educational policy choices, but nevertheless – and I want to prove this now – there have always been difficulties if you really wanted to move on. I take the flexible school entrance phase: Foreign language from the first level, flexible schooling opportunities, and this, in our view, is the necessary measure to introduce an alternative and performance- motivating performance assessment. – This was unfortunately not possible. I am taking the professional maturity test: a very, very important step that has been taken during the last legislative period. Unfortunately, the implementation of our project to free these tests according to lifelong and quality-enhancing learning was not possible. . I am curious if you will agree to the request we are going to make once again. I call the schoolbook action: For years now, we have been discussing this issue and recommending that social democrats develop this schoolbook action on the multimedia action, because that, and we all know, is the challenge of the future. – Unfortunately, it has not been possible so far. I would also like to remind you of the proposal we have put forward concerning a higher education institution. A wide-ranging approach, which was offered for discussion, has been pushed aside. In an effortful discussion, it was possible to incorporate some approaches into the Academy Study Law and at least to bring the train to the rails, so that the education for compulsory school teachers in Austria gradually became an academic. Finally, I would like to address the 1999 curriculum. From the 1999 curriculum, which was completed and debated in itself, the approaches to school programme, internal and external evaluation and teamwork were taken out of the way for us. I wondered about it, but of course I am also pleased that this is now included in the new government agreement as a possible project. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: To constantly accuse us that the SPÖ was a "blocker party" is one thing, but: [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Not just been, still!]] You can't prove it in these areas either. Let me now comment on a few points. Nothing is foreseen in this budget for your large-scale and welcome technology billions for schools. I fear that this will not only be pushed into the next budget, but much further. This is in stark contrast to your government agreement, but this is also in stark contrast to the measures decided in the EU Council that, at the end of 2001 and the end of 2002, very important data on Internet access for all schools and training for teachers in relation to these new challenges. – I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: When and how do you imagine that this task will be fulfilled? I have criticized the fact that there are few approaches to the further development of vocational education and training. I believe that today, especially in the middle and higher education sector, which reaches the schooling level, there are really unacceptable conditions. Up to 40 students in one class – this is no longer pedagogical to answer! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Example!]] And this is one of the main causes of the high drop-out and repetitious quotas that exist in this school area. Staying sitting costs the state, as we know, around 4 billion schilling annually, and seats cost the families around 8 billion schilling annually. What do you intend, Mrs Federal Minister, to do in this area? What structural measures do you plan to take to ensure that what you have announced is actually carried out? The further development of vocational education and training is an essential element. How is all this actually to be done? The expanding field of vocational education and training is not to be stopped – should not be stopped at all, but the framework conditions must be ensured. Another consequence of this situation is that parents are ultimately asked to cash out. They all know: More than 1.6 billion schillings are already spent annually on follow-up education. Where are your ideas, your creative approaches, so that promotion of those they need is actually offered? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In recent days it has already been said that this government has not much to do with disadvantaged people, with poorer people. And this trend continues in the field of education. The budget for student and home aid was frozen in 2000. Mrs. Federal Minister! We asked you a year ago – I remind you now again – to present a study on the social situation of students in order to use existing resources more socially effective and responsiblely, as we have agreed together. – So far, we have not received any information from you about this. In any case, this does not correspond to a right of opportunity. Lifelong learning will be a central focus of your education policy, as stated in the Government Convention. – The fact is that the already low funds for adult education have been significantly reduced, namely by around 13 percent, despite the fact that resources for adult education have been reduced by both the Court of Auditors and the EU as a whole It is important to consider and to call on both institutions to significantly increase their financial resources. The approach to re-enactment – a very important part of lifelong learning – has also been reduced from around 10 million schillings to 5.5 million schillings, almost half of them. What are the consequences of this policy? . I should like to say, ladies and gentlemen from the Austrian People's Party: They have been responsible for education since 1995. About three weeks ago, the Institute for Higher Studies in Austria presented an investigation to the public and noted in this context that more than 8 per cent of a year of age, more than 7 000 young people, no longer opt for further education according to their compulsory schooling. – Members of the ÖVP! I say to you that at the time of SPÖ Education Ministers and especially in the years 1991/1992 and 1992/93, this share was still 1 per cent; it has now despised itself! In addition, I note that 5 percent of a year of age do not even have a positive primary school degree. In addition – I have already pointed out – the fact that the proportion of those 20 to 24 years of age who do not have a degree in education increased even to 15 percent before a positive degree in vocational training. Mrs Bundesminister, you know these numbers. I therefore ask you: Where is the counter-strategy, where are the measures most urgently needed to counter this development? We all know that poorly trained young people are almost unmedial in the labour market. And we also know that it must be the goal of every federal government – in agreement with the European Union – to ensure that close to the entire age of the country is to receive completed vocational training. We must help, we must support, and we must also enable those who cannot afford to do so to complete education. In conclusion, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen: In the sense and in a sense of responsibility for the future of our youth, agree to this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2102	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr Antoni, Mr Beate Schasching, Mr Rieplund and others, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The clock is set to 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2133	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After Mr Antoni spoke about the school budget, I would like to draw attention to the so-called high schools and also promote sympathy and support, which is not always a matter of course for this type of education. I would like to focus a little on the development of high schools and, in this context, lead to Aristotle, who, in his metaphysics, spoke of two different arts, namely those who contribute to the pleasant life-management, and those who contribute to meeting the necessary needs. He also says: "If, therefore, everything was so ordered, then the sciences were found, which did not refer to the necessary needs or to the pleasantness of life, but to the areas where one had to have it." Ladies and gentlemen! If in ancient times the priests practiced in the scientific must, it is no longer just the priests, or perhaps no longer the priests, but dramatists, biologists, physicists, sociologists and so on, who deal with teaching and research as a "scientific drive". Of course, science also looks different than at the time of the ancient Egyptian mathematicians. Science has become, could be said, a prowess, and thus a public concern for a modern state. That's what I've reached in the present century. The reforms of the last decades, especially in the 1970s, have greatly changed the places of science. They have made universities open to high-performance and modern businesses. The fact that something would not change in these reform products is not, of course, the case. In contrast to my previous speaker, I can take a positive assessment of the development of universities and their status today: In Austria, about 220 000 students attend universities and universities, about every other student of an age age makes Matura, and a good third of them then attends a further academy, a university or a university. The study is, as often quoted, not free of charge, but possible, because there is a large group of people who make it possible for thousands of university teachers to be paid for, laboratories are equipped and cared for, strenuous attempts are made, rent can be paid and thus high-quality teaching can be given. A modern society – a society that is in a global economic structure – is producing science companies – I say with all positive affirmation – as future-proof institutions. There is no progress – and there is no doubt that God is grateful, as well as no doubt – both in the field of technology and production as well as in the field of human and social affairs, which can come out without knowledge secured by science and research: without science no innovation, no jobs, no wealth without jobs. These conclusions are certainly known to you. – I therefore believe that a modern state is, in any case, also striving politically for the economic and spiritual autonomy of its citizens and supporting value-added employment – thus a high-political, i.e. an educational, employment-political motive. Ladies and gentlemen! Universities and research institutes are increasingly confronted with new tasks. These new tasks will take place both the universities and research institutes as well as the Federal Government, at the head of our Lady Minister for Education. What's this about? – First of all, to safeguard young scientists. What's so beautiful?: The torches of the Spirit must be carried on! Politics must know that something must also be created for the protection of the spiritual elites. There must be resources for this. In order to ensure the development of intellectual elites, new tasks are added, which form a knowledge-based society: Skills in the field of scientific foundations, knowledge and knowledge that characterise a subject, a problem field, ability to answer when it comes to interdisciplinary and complex tasks; all in all that universities pursue in the new sense, namely, scientific preparation and training, never entirely - training. The student or the student of today practises his/her studies in a different way than it used to be: Studying and working are combined, and experience abroad is being increased. The untypical student or the untypical student has thus become the typical. – If you want to read it, this is done in the report on the social situation of students. This also corresponds to a new understanding of scientific experience. This looked different 30 or 40 years ago than today. Nontypical scientists become more and more the typical. Permanent knowledge updating and a flexible transition into various fields of activity and science must not be sacrificed to a rigid right of service. Foreign orientation, other forms of team and work are necessary. Now we are coming to a concrete discussion which deals with this change, namely the one about a new legal form that we should develop so that these new tasks can be fulfilled. The legal forms in which the independent new universities are now transferred remain open until three points are fulfilled. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Firstly, precise formulation of tasks and objectives. Secondly, as the next step, specify the organisational conditions under which these objectives can be achieved. Thirdly, it follows that the legal consequences result. Ladies and gentlemen! According to valid assessments, this can be done by means of private law – not automatically with private economy; that is something else – just as it is through public-law. Security as well as scope, performance elements as well as invariable factors can be formulated and employment combinations designed that have more to do with today's university practice than the old legal form. The secondary activity problem can be solved faster and cleanerly, because the question of the presence and non-presence, the care capacity, the university teacher, is always a focus on the service factor. Sabbath models – essentially non-conventional – should also be developed for medium-sized construction. This should also be accessible to national and foreign experience in all quality, as they are available to the professors. The universities are invited to participate actively in this process. In doing so, the inclusion of foreign experiences should be allowed or, more dynamically formulated, sought, but only copying is certainly not the right way. Some representatives of the academic medium-sized building, to which I myself belong, face these changes with great fear, especially the discussion about them. But we know: Fear is a bad advice! The Austrian People's Party will not choose an inconsistency of reform or choose a non-respective all-must-stand-how-es-ist policy. We will wait for the results of the rectors' conference after the first draft law-enforcement that has not been crowned with success – in plenary on 19 and 20 July. We will then enter into a dialogue with all those involved. And I am grateful to those organisations that are already conducting this dialogue constructively. In a new freedom, teaching and researching, in comprehensible administrative structures, can take responsibility, set study priorities: This is the reform package, which is the reform objective of the Austrian People's Party! This includes research fund autonomy as well as sensitive but efficiency-oriented research focus advice, which is essentially the responsibility of the future Research and Technology Development Council. I am very confident that we will be able to take these legal measures in the next few weeks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In your applause, I see support. I hope that this support will also come from the other political groups. High schools and research institutions are well equipped to carry out these tasks this year, with financial resources for the implementation of this programme. Very good, of course, does not mean very well, but we attach ourselves to the conditions under which we started years ago. The highest share ever achieved in the budget has been achieved for the science budget. This can be said: the highest share so far! There is a total increase of 4.64 percent, with staff even 11.14 percent. Of course, the small advertising drop to have to live with a 0.61 percent reduction in actual expenditure is a matter of priority. However, I think that the universities in which there has been great investment in this area in recent years will be focused on this first thirst line. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to mention seven small points which I consider important for the further development of the university under the current conditions. First: International mobility and cooperation with foreign scientists are required that the wheel be invented together so that resources can be saved and contacts can be established. Secondly, Improvement of the advice of students. – We know that well-advised students correspond to a low drop-out rate and the number of unthinked selected studies is lower. The result rate is highest in good advice, and so the lifetime of young people is well dealt with. Thirdly, Development of new fields of work. . The higher education report points out that the main fields of work are currently in close areas of the service sector. This cannot be the professional goal of university leavers. Fourth: The motivation to devote itself to technical-natural and technological studies must be strengthened. – That’s where I see a motivational task that we have to do to girls in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fifth, you open a bottle The "self-carrying agents" must be neglected. – The SPÖ requires absolute evaluation results to be made subject to any condition. That is not to be supported. The better way are coaching, employee talks, career development methods and, of course, evaluation, but should first be advised in the inner circle of the Scientific Community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Sixthly, there is no fear of a differentiation of the offer. Plurality must not frighten. Competition is an essential motivating tool. Seventeenths: Efficient self-management and new budget autonomy; We need a modern service right and the flexibility of the social and pension system. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say: At the university it was always thought internationally, probably according to the Grillparzer word, that the way from humanity to nationality to bestiality is not far. I hope that universities will continue to make this contribution in the future and continue to search for and maintain the international or the international discussion and thus comply with the European mandate. I wish that we also have a positive turn in self-reflection. With self-reflection, I also mean publications about myself. I wish we could come from the opinion of Peter Glotz's "Universität – in the core rott" or Reinhold Knoll's "Uni im Out" to a N.N.-publication "Universität auf der Siegerstraße – Auffall für Kompetenzzentrum". Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2310	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2331	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can deal with the educational budget, and I would like to start with a relatively trivial statement, and this is that this budget will not keep the same as the budgets of recent years in the field of education. Over the last few years, excesses have increased. There was a surplus of 1.7 billion schilling in 1999, and if I had to go to a betting office, I would rely on an excess of 2 billion schilling in 2000. However, I would like to say this without an assessment because otherwise it can be a critical point. With regard to budgetary policy, it is a criticism, of course, because budgets should be designed in such a way that they ultimately hold. But this is not a criticism that we think it is being spent too much in the field of education. I would like that to be recorded once. I have already asked you, Mrs Federal Minister, in the Committee on Budgets what excess you expect. Of course, you could not answer that question. But, interestingly, the answer seems to me that there are still differences between the Minister of Finance and you in staff costs. Now we have the situation that for years one budget after another has not been kept, and that is what I mean: At some point these calculations should be possible and a budget should be drawn up, which ultimately holds. I would also like to tell you where the problem lies in my view: I know the discussion that will take place when the accounts are drawn up. It is always the same discussion, and this is: Teachers are too expensive, we can't afford the education system like that, we have to save because excesses are there. I believe that this form of argumentation is simply not serious, because if budgeting has not been serious or has not been enough, then it is not about the teachers that schools or teaching have cost too much, but about finally creating a budget that has been done to finally get out of this discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have made the effort to look more closely at this budget, even though it is not easy, in its sub-points, and I believe that the staff costs have been increased in a scale of about 3.5 billion schilling. This is a scale which corresponds roughly to the actual increases, one assumes from the last budget approach. The only problem is that the last budget approach has been exceeded, and that is why it can be assumed that it will not be different even now. What we all agree on, or at least most, is the fact that there are relatively few savings in personnel costs. The bonding in the education budget is increasing as a percentage of the staff costs. As far as my figures are concerned, this should now account for about 94 percent. There are simply agreements, contracts, demands of teachers, but there are – and I say so – at least relatively few proposals on how to deal with them differently in the medium term and in the long term. They have said that the demands are widely met. I'm going to stop this. In the failed SPÖ/ÖVP Pact, a flattening of the income curve and a change in life income were fixed. Now that is no longer planned. I believe that structurally – not only in the field of school, but also in general – it would be a very essential step if we finally wanted young people to earn more and increase their age accordingly. Especially among teachers, this would at least mean that there will be savings in pensions. This point has fallen out. I believe that this would bring a number of aspects of savings in a perspective. But the discretion expenditure has been shortened, and I find that relatively interesting. We are talking about spending on discretion in the school sector, and if you look at what that is, then you can expect that this is actually the cost of property. I'm not sure how much it really is in school's discretion to heat up, pay rents or make resources available. But this is exactly what we are talking about. The range is reduced by about 15 percent; in part, it is more, partly less, which varies. This is the first area in which cuts are made. Even if you have said that the school is flexible and then you have to look for yourself, where it can save, it is true that we have reached a level where savings in the form will simply not be possible. If I am here in Parliament with school classes and ask the students what they wanted for the school, if there is more money, then less comes the answer that they want to have ski lessons. I didn't have a school class here until this week, and these students said they'd like new windows. I think this is an example that characterizes the current situation. I think it's a short-sighted thing, because if you've had a little bit to do with living, renting and building, then you know that investment costs, which you don't do the same, will cost much more in a few years. It is not a question of really saving these costs, but it is a matter of delaying costs, but I believe that this is a saving that will lead to more costs in the long term. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then there are savings that I cannot explain, and your statement in committee has not really brought me to a stand so that I can understand. I say to the schoolroom procurement costs: Okay, that's 10 percent savings. That is what will be a follow-up, but that will be quite possible. But when you cut the rents of the schools by 565 million schilling – by 565 million schilling! – then I wonder how this should happen. This is due to the new rental policy of the Federal Government, which seems to me to be a bit strange, because if the federal real estate company has less rental income, it will probably not help the state budget in a sustainable way. These savings were, by the way, also considered unrealistic by experts I spoke to. This can probably not happen in this form. The third area in which cuts can be made is that of the alternative schools, where this is very painful. I would like to make an amendment later on. It is not about private schools in this area, but about that area of schools, where it is possible to form a new form of school with a great deal of commitment from the students, but above all also the parents. I mean, for example, the Waldorf schools. In this area there are savings of up to 45 percent. You have to imagine that. Of course, it has been so far that the state's contribution to these schools has been much lower and the parents have mainly paid for the arrival of these schools. Only: Once again in this field, where pupils have already cost the state much less than students in the regular schools, we do not think appropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This increase would mean that Waldorf schools and alternative schools will be budgeted to the same extent as they did in 1999. I would ask you, since this is a very small increase compared to the overall budget, to consider once again whether there is also a possibility on the part of the government groups to accept this request. I now come to a point that has always been presented by the Federal Government as a model example in the field of education: technology billions. There is no criticism by us of the intention of developing technologies in schools. That's not a question at all! In recent years, however, the schools have faced the situation – and this should also be taken into account – that they have essentially obtained their computers, their technologies from the ministries, where they have been eliminated. I just mention one example: A HTL in Graz, which still has a relatively high technical requirement, is still equipped with 486 computers, so that appropriate instruction on the latest technology is not possible. We also face the situation that there is hardly any teacher training in the IT sector, and that the maintenance of this infrastructure in schools is due only to the commitment of teachers. There are teachers who deal with computers, there are teachers who make sure that the "workels" continue to run, even if they are already quite old. However, there is de facto no budgeting for this. If you are always talking about the demands of the teachers, you should also take into account that a great deal of commitment is being made so that the operation can be maintained at all. [[Call: That's right.]] I say to you that in relation to the cuts in discretionary expenditure you have estimated at 1.3 billion shillings per year in the next few years – approximately 5 billion shillings – investments in the amount of 1 billion shillings are not even a drop on the hot stone. These are real savings of 4 billion schilling. If you make a policy where this is so, your motives are understandable to me, but in reality it will look different. We are in favour of adequate budgeting in this area, we consider the new technologies to be very important – also in school, also in teacher training – and we are in favour of making the appropriate resources available. If 1 billion is invested, but 5 billion are saved, then I have to say, that's not the policy we're imagining. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Another point that falls into budgetary weight is the integration into school. I have already asked you a question in the last hour of Question Time, and you have said: This takes place anyway, and it has also been done so far. – It may be. We'll see how it develops. I would now like to highlight a very positive point from the failed coalition agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP, and I would like to quote from it a paragraph which was nevertheless very progressive. It is true that the area of mother tongue education is no longer included in the new, now valid coalition agreement. I would like to quote the first paragraph: "The aim of mother tongue teaching is to improve the development of child personality and the formation of identity in bilingual children and the promotion of language. The basic thesis is that the better children develop in the language of the new home, the better they make progress in both languages. With specially trained language teachers, the respective mother tongues are consolidated in small groups." You have also presented this in answer to the question made to you at Question Time in such a way that you agree. I'm not sure now – maybe you can answer that afterwards. The new Government Convention states that point 3.4.: "In the case of school integration, this task is to be carried out (e.g. Increase of the hourly dimension in German) Priority in the resource allocation of the available approx. There are 2 000 planning sites." These 2 000 planning posts are precisely those ones and the means from which the mother tongue teachers have been financed. And if you now put the priority on German teaching, then if I understand correctly, this must necessarily lead to a limitation of mother tongue teaching. That is exactly what I meant in Question Time, and that is exactly what we think is a wrong approach on the basis of studies. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I come to the last point, about democracy in school, co-determination and: What role should students, teachers and parents have in schools? I would also like to speak on a point which has already been dealt with at Question Time. I have asked you whether you believe that the School Community Committee should also have the right to make a decision on the use of school sponsorship funds. You have answered, at least from the content, that you do not think it is useful to make decisions – they should be involved, but bodies should not make decisions – which are ultimately not responsible for them. The headmaster is responsible; that was the point. Col. Schasching also asked at one point, namely the involvement of the school partners in the secondary school, and your answer – I heard this again in the early morning – was that parents should be involved and questioned. However, the word "schooler" has left me. But we do think that the students of the school partners are a very essential element. What I want to do is that there seems to be a different picture of school – one that you have, and one that we have. I would think that your picture of school in some form is still a hierarchical school system with a clear distribution of tasks: the director, the director, the teachers, the teachers. We have a different picture of school: We are talking about a participatory model in which there is to be an appropriate school form, where teachers, teachers, students, students and parents are to decide together on how school is going. We believe that at a time when the half-life of knowledge is increasingly lower, in which a long-term planned career is no longer possible for most to deal with other things than simple accumulation of knowledge in schools. It is about social learning, it is mainly about the ability to enable post-school training, to create the conditions for truly orientation in today's world. Hierarchical thinking will not meet these challenges, and we will always oppose our participatory model to yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2422	The amendment tabled by Mr Brosz on the estimate approach 1/12256 is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2446	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I follow the debate over the last few days very closely, especially the speeches by the speakers of the opposition parties: the Social Democrats and the Greens. The contents are almost the same throughout. Both are constantly complained that there is too little money in all areas of education, social affairs or other areas. It's too little money there, this government just makes too little money available. At the same time, the criticism of the Minister of Finance was that he was not ambitious enough to address budget consolidation, although he does not really bear the responsibility for what we now have to deal with problems. He brought his ear figs to Brussels, which would actually be granted to Mr Edlinger. He has entered into this difficult socialist heritage because he takes responsibility for this country in difficult times, Mr Edlinger, in times when we have accumulated more than 1 700 billion schilling in public debt. [[Abg. Swimlein: What item on the agenda?]] To the budget, my colleague. – 1,700 billion Schillings, for which we have 9 billion Schillings to pay for in the month. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible!]] Mr Edlinger! 9 billion Schilling Interests: the result of your Minister of Finance activity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's 300 million schilling interest a day! Ladies and gentlemen! To this amount one could build 100 very nice family houses a day, President Maderthaner told me. When you think of it: 100 nice family houses we could build each day around the amount corresponding to the interest for which you bear the responsibility! And here you come and lament that there's no money? Who will have to pay the debts you made? – This Federal Government. [[Abg. Edlinger: My God!]] Nevertheless, this state will continue to be one of the leaders in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Edlinger, only on your financial policy, on the socialist heritage. People need to know that today the windows are not quite fine. [[Abg. Edellinger: Yes, yes!]] So we can't fix the windows in the schools because you built such a mess, my Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Despite these budgetary problems and the strict savings rate, we have succeeded in providing the Ministry of Education with some sort of good financial resources, because this Federal Government also believes that the future will present even greater challenges to the education system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – Lokführer, please, mix in where you know yourself, then when it comes to steaming, but not when it comes to education! Quickly changing conditions at work, new professions, Mr. Edler, of which you no longer have much to do with, and rapid development in information technology are challenges to which those responsible,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2555	Mr. Edler! The question is asked. Please, now the speaker is back in line.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2570	... are now in the Federal Government, have to put. But now, Mr Edler – I spoke with Mr Antoni yesterday – the opposition has also been invited to make a constructive contribution in the sense of re-government. Mr Antoni, we are not going to let the opposition go as it has been before. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the new style!]] I have already invited you yesterday to negotiate a very specific request with us, to bring it in together and to decide together. I would like to renew this invitation to the public and quite polite today. We all know that education policy is not a day-to-day history. This is about setting up measures to initiate long-term developments. Again: I cordially invite the education politicians from the Social Democrats and also from the Greens to participate in the joint design of education policy. It's also very easy, colleague Antoni. If I look at the government program you have massively criticized today, I have to say it's very ambitious. There are many projects that have also been included by you in your Convention, which has not finally come about. It is almost all of what was negotiated in this agreement between S & D Democrats and ÖVP. There are only a few things that have been added, especially in the area of school autonomy, school management, teacher education and further education, which I am going to address. But let's do it together! The offer is, it is up to you, whether you want to criticize in the future or whether you are bringing in your ideas, we are talking about it together, and then, if it fits, we will also implement it together. The time will show whether you want to be constructive or whether, as some claim, you really want to operate only fundamental opposition. Let's see! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The "New School", such as "Regeving New", is intended to convey basic knowledge and skills. We agree on this. The key qualifications are undisputed: Learning, motivating learning, but also promoting creativity and cooperation will be particularly important. The provision of technology understanding is a concern for all of us to involve the provision of skills, especially the new technologies in teaching in such a way that they are also applied and not only remains in isolated means. [[Abg. Swimmling: Why don't we do it?]] That's what we all want, so we'll do it together. In order to meet this requirement, there will certainly be these billions of technology in the next few years. [[Abg. Swimmlein: The training places are missing!]] The Minister also presented an ambitious programme in which she said: All schools on the net, every student's laptop. – You have to leave it to her, she has a very ambitious program ahead. We will hopefully implement it together, Mr Schwemmlein. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: Do me!]] I hope you too will participate constructively in the better design of the future of our young people. You're also invited, not only to my colleague Antoni. Let's see what you can bring in. What would you like to bring in? What? - All right, all right. [[Abg. Swimmlein: There are no classes in electrical engineering! That's "politics new"! It can't be! We need tens of thousands of electric technicians!]] There's no point in saying that an intermediate call would have been enough. We will also ensure that this may be developed for the better. Okay? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are many more important projects – not just this – in which I seek support from you. Mr Antoni, we are of course somewhat different. We say the primary school has to stay. But we'll upgrade them. We will greatly upgrade them by introducing performance standards, through new autonomous focus education, especially in the fields of technology, in information technology. The further development of the Polytechnic School will also be particularly important, with the aim of developing a professional year, with its own testimony, which I consider very, very important, so that there is more motivation to attend this school with a witness that may also bring benefits when one begins teaching. I could even imagine that this certificate replaces the first theoretical vocational school year and thus creates another incentive for the economy to recruit more apprentices. We would therefore also have an approach to solving the problem of apprentices, whose solution you did not succeed; that is what you have to say. This is an innovative approach. Play with me! Maybe we can do something for the apprentices. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We probably have fewer problems in the first classes of secondary and higher schools. You know that since the student flows are quite wrong and become a burden for those who want to attend this school not only for a year, but also for those who want to complete it. That would be a good contribution to solving this problem. Third priority of the new education policy, in which you should participate: modern school management with the aim of rapidly developing autonomy. The school is to become an educational enterprise, communicating much more with the school environment than it has been so far, taking over contracts for businesses as well. In my opinion, the schools of the future must at some point obtain full justice in order to set themselves objectives and be responsible for achieving these objectives. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Every class should have full justice!]] There should be a school manager, colleague. You have little idea of what management is, of course. That's how you lead your club. But we'll make sure there's school managers. They should be able to choose their teachers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are free-standing ideas from the educational enterprise school, which we hope we can implement together with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Schwemlein: You weren't the Federal Party Managing Director for that long!]] To achieve these objectives, we need committed and motivated teachers, Mr Antoni. That is why we will also need to create the conditions for the renewal of teacher education and training. In particular, training of private individuals will have to be taken over. Finally – the Ministry and the Federal Ministers are also working on this – we will have to create incentive systems in the remuneration system, that performance will be rewarded, that not all, no matter how much and what they do, will be paid equally. Performance must also pay off in school, then I am not afraid of education policy in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, Mr Antoni, once again the invitation: Work constructively! Bring in! We will be happy about every constructive contribution, welcome it and implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2722	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2743	Mr President. High house! Education as a major challenge for the future is particularly high in the 2000 budget. It is the highest proportion that an educational budget ever had in the overall budget, namely 9.7 percent. Of course, staffing is a very important part of the educational budget. I would like to comment on some of the comments made by previous speakers. Mr Brosz! You have said in your remarks that it is always mentioned that teachers are too expensive. – I’ve never said that teachers are too expensive, but rather very often stressed that teachers are the most important components of the school. I mean, teachers make up school life. Therefore, they are indispensable – and therefore the costs for teachers are to be borne by an educational budget. This has always been and is my position on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have also mentioned very often that these staff costs depend on the age structure. And the age structure is the same that many teachers are moving at higher levels of salary; therefore, staff costs are also increasing to a special extent. This is a fact, however, for which teachers cannot be blamed. We need these very, very important employees, and I am glad that we have so many dedicated teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it is our concern – as was said by previous speakers – to redesign the teacher service right. We are there: A draft is drawn up by a working group; there is a redistribution of the quality of life so that young colleagues get a higher level of entry, but the salary curve then flattens. All these measures are, as has been said, in preparation – and we will be very responsible in discussing and implementing this with the trade union. Mr Brosz! I would also like to say something about the questions raised by you regarding mother tongue teaching. I have already stated several times clearly and clearly that all these issues are regulated by law. It is therefore not necessary to write this into a government programme. By law, for example, how large are the groups who receive mother tongue teaching, and it is also regulated by law who receives an additional education in German. Clearly, we have also noted that it is necessary for integration that children be taught both in the German language and in their native language, because that is important for their identity. And for this there are 2 000 posts available in Austria. I mean, in any case, that gives us good opportunities to comply with these measures, which are laid down by law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on some very important priorities in the field of education. An important focus for the future is all the challenges of the new information and communication technologies, i.e. everything that begins with an "I": e-learning, internet, e-commerce, e-government, so all future areas. [[Call the SPÖ: You think so, Mrs. Minister: everything that starts with "i" and "e"]] We have done this for our own project: e-Austrian in e-Europe, which clearly lists the challenges of the European Union. Those who are interested and who can already deal with the new technologies, so those who already get an e-mail, who can already look at the Ministry's homepage, can get out of the Internet the entire program of the government. I note that in the field of education, the following objectives have been agreed with the EU in the field of education: by the year 2001 access to the network for all schools, by 2002 all the necessary teachers in dealing with the Internet and new media schools – I note: "all necessary" teachers are the division – to develop schools into local multi-purpose centres and to implement a European diploma for the skills of ideas. The situation is already such that all federal schools have access to the Internet; in compulsory schools it is 45 percent, in vocational schools 63 percent. There this falls into the competence of the school holders, i.e. the countries and communities. I would like to thank all those who invest heavily from this point of view. In recent years, 800 million schilling has been invested in the technology offensive. It is now in the ministry a control group that is about to tell us what wheels need to be turned on, so to speak, to use these computer billions, which will be available from autumn 2001. I say right now and quite clearly: It does not make sense – and that has never been said by me – for every popular student to receive a laptop financed by the Ministry. However, it is useful to find systems so that it is possible, for example, through leasing, through cooperation with businesses, to have a laptop that they can use at home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It also makes no sense to pay all the entrances to the schools themselves. Rather, it is more useful to focus on future-oriented technologies. Those who have been watching news recently will certainly also have heard that the Lower Austrian energy recovery agency has presented a model project that makes it possible to receive data via power line and by modem. These are modern developments, and we will have the opportunity to increase access to schools with reasonable investments and to give students the opportunity to work with the latest devices. Since it was also said here: more schools with electrical engineering focus. – My answer: Schools must give up old priorities, which are no longer in demand, and set new priorities. The number of pupils will not rise so much. But we must also ask ourselves, for example: Do we still need the classes of fashion and clothing technology? Are these young graduates actually finding a job at all – or would it not be more reasonable to use these resources for technological training? It must therefore be assumed that new priorities are made and old priorities are left out. It is not possible: more and more, because in the future we will not have this number of students in order to be able to do something. This new focus is therefore a major challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For example, as a focus, I mention the foreign language offensive: The year 2001 is "year of foreign language learning", and I am particularly concerned to include our neighbouring countries in Central Europe in this foreign language offensive. In this context, I would also like to mention the quality offensive, including the school development programme implemented at schools. However, I would also like to point out a number of different objectives here. It is said again and again that there are ideologically different objectives. . I tell you, there are different objectives in how we can increase the best possible training for young people. I don't think it's the best way to have a young person in the wrong school. That is why we need to check seriously whether young people who, for example, have four, five or more "five" in a higher education school are sitting in the right school. In the last legislative period, we have maintained the measure that young people who have more than three "fifties" can no longer repeat, at the request of SPÖ. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have had a study carried out, and this clearly indicates that even if these young people repeat, they have no chance of finishing this school. So we have to ask ourselves – also for the benefit of young people –: What is the best possible education offer? It is always called upon to make everything free of charge. For example, it is often called for that the professional maturity test must be free of charge. – Ladies and gentlemen! I really don't understand the attitude that education is something that everyone has to do, so to speak, free of charge and free of charge. Education is obviously not a good for you, which may also cost something. For me, education is a good thing – and I think we should consider that already. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A small fee is currently required for the professional maturity test – and it is paid. More than 4,000 young people are preparing for the professional maturity test. So why change that?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, you are always talking about what is socially fair. – I say to you: Socially fair it is only if we develop and improve the differentiated, flexible and permeable Austrian school system so that we deal with the lifetime and training of young people carefully. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And socially fair it is only if the budget is designed today in such a way that the necessary further developments in the field of education can be paid tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2864	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e2888	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, let me look at some of the statements made by Mrs Gehrer, the Federal Minister, here. I am pleased that you have already brought this bilingual into Parliament. When you did, everything that starts with "i" is important, you have – I suppose – summarized everything that starts with "i" or "e" into an expression, i.e. information technologies and e-commerce. That is certainly right, I can agree with you. We cannot, however, agree with you if you raise the question of why everything has to be free in the field of education. No one has claimed from us that everything has to be free, and that is not it either. But we have to distribute the loads justly. And it is not fair, Mrs. Federal Minister, that someone has the opportunity to repeat something two or three times, and others who want to do about a professional maturity test and prepare to pay 40 000, 50,000 S for it just because they have initially chosen the way of teaching. So there are great differences, and we think there must be justice, especially in education policy! That's our concern. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, there are obviously two drawers in your policy. The one is the upper drawer that the Federal Minister has now opened – and Mrs Brinek. There is going to be with us, with the opposition friendly. And in the slightly deeper drawer, Mr Schweitzer looked in at the beginning and told us what we had done wrong. Since you always emphasize what difficult situation you have taken over, you must almost take over – we have knownly "forced" you to rule in this extremely difficult situation –: Let me turn to this negative picture of Austria, which you constantly draw... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not from Austria, but from the politics of the Socialists!]] You describe here, from this speaker's desk, a very negative situation in which you have taken over the government responsibility. Let me now quote the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, what he said on the day of the takeover of government by this coalition on Austria, also about how we left this country [[Abg. Gaugg: We know that! You are not the forereader of the nation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: A booze!]] With the year 2000, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, a new era has begun, and the Austrians can start at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== There have never been such good conditions for our country. - Quote. That was our balance sheet! We'd be glad if you could say that if you weren't in government again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fischl: You will have to wait a long time!]] Among the shawls we get to hear: Let's work together, let's do something together! – Very much, very much in the interest of education policy, in the interest of schools, universities, research. If Mr Schweitzer did so in my colleague's appeal Sweamlein asks: What do you want, then, do we want to fulfill your wish?, Mrs. Minister, as if he were already sitting here spiritually, because he can say, in a way or so, as a minister: [[the speaker refers to the Intergovernmental Bank]] Yes, you get this HTL, prefer Emmerich Schwemmlein– or something similar. But please, you can't make politics like that. We offer you the cooperation. [[The speaker shows the brochure "Education = Future" – the SPÖ's educational programme.]] We have the only comprehensive educational policy programme of all the parties in Austria. There are more or less extensive papers, but what is in here is a program, which is complete from the beginning to the beginning. You will not agree with everything, we are aware of it. But there will be a lot of things that have been addressed today where you can go. Read it through, ladies and gentlemen, of the government groups and tell us what you want to do with us. This will be the basis for cooperation – and not calls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last thing about the previous speakers, about the shawls, Mr Schweitzer, who is there in our direction. In this context, of course, you also need to know one thing – that is known to you, but it certainly does not know everyone in Austria –: School laws are a two-thirds majority matter. In the meantime, this federal government also seems to have understood that it cannot simply make offers for us in the field of school law. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You, Erwin, when you talk like this, it's gonna be hard!]] You need us, Mr Schweitzer, you need us, and you know that! We are also pleased that there is an area in which this cooperation must take place, because on a voluntary basis we have not yet experienced anything in cooperation offers, and nothing at all! On the part of the government, for example, it was announced that we should now send the material on this "Council of Technology" – no one has talked to us about it before. Because you don't need us, you can decide by a simple majority. But where you need us, you talk to us before! – This is a fact, and you also need to know this in order to be able to judge how "severe" your cooperation offers are meant, namely not at all serious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: That's not true!]] Mr Amon, I have now deliberately looked at you, not to you, but mainly to the Freeman. I know there are differences. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address two other issues in a short time, namely adult education and information technology. President Fierce has said here in the House on Tuesday that the Court of Auditors has over 300 million schillings at their disposal. That's 0.2 prom of the budget, and that's very little. – Adult education, ladies and gentlemen, the future sector of education did not even have these 300 million, but only around 160 million schilling available – and in this budget this has been reduced to 111 million schilling! This is less than 0.1% of the adult education budget, for the future sector of education. This is a serious failure of the Federal Government to draw up this budget. And if it were just that, that would already be enough to not give this budget the approval. Both the Industrial Association and the ÖGB Chairman Fritz Verzetznich have called for a further training billion. – Ladies and gentlemen! Where has this common concern been realized in this budget? Even the Court of Auditors has meant – and this is certainly not known for wasting money – that we should invest more in adult education. – The fact is, however, that this is cut from 160 to about 111 million schilling, although there are concepts for this area, also from the ministry I think is very good. A ministry, ladies and gentlemen, which assigns one of the pillars of the education system such a embarrassing place, is not worth being called the Ministry of Education. – I know that’s a tough statement, but this low priority for adult education is not worthy of a Ministry of Education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last on the Information Society: Laptop yes, laptop no?, that's the question. We therefore thought that we would put forward a motion for a resolution to clarify the need to provide more resources for these information technologies: [[Quoted print version removed]] That should be something we agree on. I would ask you – it is the "only" motion for a resolution – to: Give it your consent! Leave You close me with a quote from the book "Future Winning, Renewing Education". It cites Aris de Geus, longtime head of Shell staff and currently director of London Business School, with the sentence: "In the transition from the industry to the information society, the nose reserves the right to make the most of the explosively growing global knowledge for the development of new products and cost-saving production methods. The ability to learn faster and better than the others is the only really lasting competitive advantage." An invitation to the interlocutors of the government groups Show us a line from this extensive budget, which takes account of this demand! [[the speaker holds an issue of the 2000 Federal Estimate]] A line!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3122	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Dr Niederwieser has read, is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. This will be agreed at the end of the deliberations. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Niederweiser) 300 million schilling of interest per day!]] The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3175	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me first to comment on a few comments made by previous speakers. At the beginning of this day, Mr Antoni spoke and accused us of being, as it were, the structural conservatives. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to let this go because the accusation is of course quickly raised. I believe that we should really try here – and that is what Mr Niederweiser has now tried to put on here – to keep out of the education field of party politics and small-carity. We all hope that in this area, especially for the best solutions, one should really try to find them together, but not in the first place to put ideology in the foreground. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] I would like to protect my colleagues Schweitzer in this respect – not his speech, that is not my job – when I expressly say that I offered to you yesterday, Mr Niederwieser, that we are expressly trying to find a common procedure with regard to your request, which is on the agenda of the Teaching Committee, which is also in consultation with Mr Schweitzer. In principle, you have expressed yourself positively; please accept this offer as well! Take, by the Social Democrats, this offer of genuine, constructive cooperation in the sense of a good Austrian education policy! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] The lack of social security in the Austrian education system, particularly in the school sector, was criticized. I would like to face this very strongly. We have in Austria Thank God a school system that is provided to those who attend the school and their parents for the most part free. This is a great achievement, and we confess to it. But I ask myself here the question of where you can make up for lack of social security if an education system is provided free of charge to those affected. In any case, social security must be guaranteed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Brosz! You criticized the budget. I believe, in principle, that education policy is not limited to budget figures alone. Only because there is one percent more for education policy in the budget does this not mean that this will automatically ensure the quality of good training, but rather the issue of content. It is about the question of teachers: How well-trained are the teachers? – The Austrian teachers – which also express all international studies – do excellent work in our schools, as do the professors at the universities. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] It is also too easy for me to criticize as you have done that 94 percent of the total educational budget is spent on personnel costs. By the way, it is not quite 94 percent, but just over 90 percent. But regardless of that one has to confess that it is the most important thing in the school system that we have good teachers. I think we should try to force the idea that we have been discussing for a long time, namely the question of the redistribution of the life-income curve in favour of the start of the professional process – by the way, not only for the public service, but also for the private sector; there, in particular, the social partners are required by means of their collective treaty and wage negotiations. That makes sense, but that will be in the end – and there is no illusion! - don't be cheaper. It will also not be more expensive, but it will be a redistribution towards the beginning. This makes sense because it makes sense to help young people, especially when they are at the beginning of their careers, to start their families, to create their own homes, and to help the like. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But let us specifically mention the budget figures so that we can see that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have also succeeded in the budgetary negotiations. I think we should not make ourselves – especially the Social Democrats – and act as if there were no budgetary problem. In the coalition negotiations between you and our group, it has become obvious, even if you say today that it does not apply to everything that has been said in this Treaty – even if it has been adopted by our party leader and ultimately not by you. You're saying all of this doesn't apply today. That's right and beautiful – but one thing is proven by this: that there is a budget problem! You too cannot press ahead with this responsibility. If you look at the education budget and there Chapter 12, you will find that we have achieved an increase in the budget by 4.5 percent with 76 billion schilling in the proposal, an increase of 4.5 percent compared to the 1999 estimate and even to the success of 1999, i.e. the real budget figures – because honourable Member Brosz criticised that the estimate has not been achieved. Even in relation to the success of 1999, there is a budget increase of 2.1 percent. Mrs. Federal Minister, there's really something you've been able to do! We are glad that we can maintain the system in this proven quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me say a few basic things about how we imagine education policy in this legislative period. Today is not the day of reckoning on how the education system has developed in this legislative period, but we are at the beginning of this legislative period. Please judge us at the end of the legislative period; the voters will undoubtedly do so in a positive way! We are dealing with a little more personal responsibility in the education system, both for the individual and for the educational institutions. We want more autonomy, more independence for educational institutions, because we believe that smaller units are more flexible and can react more quickly to the increasingly changing environment. We want to ensure that there are more private institutions, not only in the university sector, but also in the school sector. We want to achieve increased flexibility, in particular with regard to the calculation of equivalent training. The Federal Minister pointed out that it was a matter of saving young people a lifetime and caring about their lifetime, so not taking unnecessary time. However, it's too easy for me to say: How do we deal with those who don't create a school level? Can there be an automatic one? Could it be that, of course, regardless of what the performance looks like, a rise to the next higher school level will be possible? I think that we do not give good service to young people, and that is because those we have today in different foundations and training measures often have problems that have their cause at quite different levels of school, for example in the folk school, because in part there has not been ensured that the cultural techniques are taught accordingly. I think that the mistakes made there must be recognized earlier. We need a comprehensive early warning system. I believe that we can ensure that young people can also be successful in their professional life or in their studies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think that the Federal Minister, with her offensive in the field of new information technologies, has set a priority that is really necessary. This is also a matter of acting quickly, acting quickly, and I think that the education system must react in this area. I think this is wrong what the red-green coalition in Germany shows us: with a green-card model, simply bring the workers needed for this area into the country. We would thus remove the pressure from the education system that is necessary in order to learn, as I would almost call it, additional cultural technology. Dealing with modern techniques, with the Internet, with laptops – if you like – with the computers, today is almost a cultural technique. I am in favour of giving this to our students in Austria and not buying know-how for them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to expressly make an offer for constructive cooperation in the teaching committee. I hope that we can maintain our good system in the form of further developing it, bringing it into line with modern requirements, and in this way we will be able to present a successful outcome together with our wife, the Minister of Education, at the end of this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3304	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3326	Mr President. Minister! High house! Of course, you can say everything three times – the facts change relatively little. They know that the promised investments in research and universities have not been made to the extent promised. New reform concepts will be turned over to universities before or just after the last has fallen into new university law. The right to justice is now being debated. I would like to ask you: What will be promoted in the framework of justice? Where will priorities be set? What is the new money from industry for? – You know that world views that are not necessary for targets, and Courage, in principle, are not what will be worth a lot of money for the people. That means: Where will the universities take money for their research in the future? I believe that university reform is more than just the introduction of business economic criteria, and will now design a scenario for you, so that you can see by an example what will happen – or perhaps better: what should not happen. I turn to the question – perhaps it is also interesting to Klubobmann Khol – how in future the so important question of patriotism will be explored. Who will pay for it? How will one learn to distinguish between renitent betrayal and legitimate resistance at universities? Where does the neurosis begin, where does the delusion of persecution begin? Who will deal with the very simple question: What are we even talking about at the universities? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Is patriotism a genetic product, or is it a product of education? Is it in the cerebellum, in hairy men's belts, or is it located exclusively in the right courtyard of the heart? Is he a product of biology? A phenomenon of the mind or one of the textile industry that has authorized the Khol’s tie – but not today? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All of this will stimulate research funding. The future of universities becomes so exciting when I look at our Scientific Committee and its chairmen. I have allowed myself to construct a folder with content in the colours red and white red that you love – and me too. [[The speaker holds a corresponding map.]] In this map other colors – Mr. Klubobmann Khol, you know them – are hidden, these are not those of Austrian patriotism. I will quote an important exponent of these colours from a "Mirror" article, 24/1997. This is according to Königgrätz – yesterday we heard, it's all so far back, you should be careful about it; but for 1997 this is not true. "Martin Graf, 37, a party comrade, Haiders and a member of the Austrian parliament, makes it more concrete: “Today’s state borders have been pulled at random; the German” people “must be able to develop freely in Europe. '" – Okay, wonderful – for the Austrian Science Committee in Parliament, I think the term "wonderful" is inappropriate. In this black and red-gold or yellow booklet, over five pages is weathered against the Prohibition Act. And that's... "Olympia" against Family Justice. – One of the harmless sentences in it is: Because the political establishment does not tolerate a certain belief relating to historical events, anyone who expresses this conviction is threatened with imprisonment and sentenced to disproportionate punishments. I believe that this can be something like a strategy debate, a debate on the budgeting of what is to be researched in Austria in terms of attitude, history of time and other things. But you're not small. You are generous, you are European and you are not limited to political statements now, but all scientific disciplines are dealt with by pass. Let's start with the chapter "Art – Popular Use" – I've copied it out because it's so easier to read: What do we want from our evenings? "Music without the slightest claim to message and art". – Art, wonderful! – "Fun with racist or at least unappetising men's whites". – Popularity, customs, also a chapter represented at universities! – "Relaxing superficial entertainment, unreflected prejudices full; self praise, shoulder knocking, joy of life". - No problem. "No compassion" – be careful! - "with worms". – Zoology is also being tried. Conclusion: We are in favour of "promoting psycho-social health". – Well, meal, health policy! – "We have remained normal under the guise of time, in which we are re-education, mourning and grief, but also consumption, social darkness and modernity are almost completely lost." – Well, regret it; but it’s not funny either! Then there's some really great stuff to come up with: "If you are ugly, fat, sick or strange in the country, you are plagued by anxiety, world pain or left-liberal attitude, you are wearing alternative schicki dress or even a flinserl in your ear, you are studying" – now we come to the law of study – "public, political or not at all, have You refuse military service or a friend who is neither beautiful nor quiet, in short: if in any way you are abnormal or un overjoyed, then rather stay at home, you wouldn't be allowed in anyway." Well, that's sociology. But theology is not left out either. I think this is excellent because, so to speak, an attempt is being made to walk between ontology and heresy. This "Olympia", after all, an association of graduates who is fully quoted as a new flowering and to promote universities, compares itself with the Benedictine order; I think this is really great at all: The fox is the novice, and the foxmajor of the novice masters. Fuchsenzeit corresponds to the novitiate, and the bursheid – you hear! – is the solemn professor. If universities of such professors – or I say it more cautiously now – are subjected to such vocations, I do not think this is harmless. I think, and that's where I repeat: At universities, it is also necessary to represent at least one-sided, not fundamentalist, and, if you want to, not one-colored green, and to allow colorfulness, a tolerance in order to get an overview of the world and its problems. Personally, I don't love him, and in some things I can understand with him partly. If such a man is chairing a science committee, others would be talking about the role of the head. I don't belong to this profession. But even if you refuse this roll of heads – and I do! –, the question will be allowed: Is such a man in the right place, and is this a signal that Austrian universities have earned, that Parliament has earned itself and that Austria has earned, that bears different colors than this one? Thank you. [[The speaker holds a brochure with a black and red-gold cover.]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't bring it over!]] I've got a minute left. If I didn't bring that over, I'd ask myself: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This has not succeeded, that has gone beyond!]] Where am I, and where are you sitting? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The fungus can do better!]] He does it differently. As you know, the greens are against cloning experiments, you can't expect a second mushroom here. I'm really happy if you're not, I'd be glad.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3423	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3444	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It honors me that my colleague, Mrs Greenewald, has his precious speaking time – almost 10 minutes! – has used exclusively to deal with my person in a budget debate. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And with my tie!]] This shows that I have a high priority with you, which in principle must mean nothing bad. My person should obviously be more important to you than universities, research or other things. [[Abg. Oils: The Attitude! The Attitude!]] I think it is more about education and science policy with colleagues from Niederwieser, who said earlier in his speech: [[Interlocutory call to the liberals]] [[Abg. Oillinger: (in the direction of freedom) Racistic!]] It's about more justice! If we now speak of justice, then that implies that there may have been too little justice to date – at least I read it out, so I interpret it. That is why I ask you once again to exercise more justice and to say in quotations that, for example, those you brought today do not usually come from me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That might be in the sense of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It would be decent!]] Not everyone here in the hall knows – even the listeners don't know – how you do it and think it. What you have just done is to try – and I am very disappointed that this is coming from you, a physician and a humanist – to carry out head roles. [[Abg. Oillinger: That with the state borders? That's wrong? But that's what it says in the mirror!]] In this situation, I think this is a humane hunt, in which you, with no example, try to dissuade another Member who is freely elected by this people in Austria from his duties and rights. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I'll tell you: You just quoted! – I was interviewed at a German reunification celebration, as it is about borders in Europe after 1945, and I have reflected a situation. Freedom of art and also of research is that one can always properly reflect a situation in the future. It is now true that, after 1945, the borders in Europe were pulled at random. This is an issue, a fact sheet compared with 1938. I can't find anything bad about this statement. Or have you forgotten that there was a GDR and a Federal Republic of Germany? [[Abg. Oillinger: Where does the German people go?]] Has this not been an arbitrary action after 1945? Would you interpret it differently? Would you rather that these limits would not have been drawn? Would you rather? [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] And if I articulate a popular issue by saying that the German people must be allowed to develop freely in Europe – an argument that continues – as well as any other nationality, that is only my basic understanding of equality, solidarity, justice throughout Europe! [[Abg. Oils: From the mesh to the memels!]] [[New condolences with the liberals.]] If you want to understand it differently, if you do not want to let the German people develop freely in Europe, then that is for me a form of racism – that is written to you in the main book! [[Abg. Oils: Who does that belong to?]] [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Bruckmann.]] There is no discrimination against peoples in Europe, not the German people either. Letter You're behind your ears! That's my understanding, you have a different world view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are a young parliamentarian and have not yet learned so much. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Please?]] In a few years, you may be better able to bring it over. Today it was a pipe-creper, I'm telling you! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I don't want to learn some of what you mean!]] After all, we are dealing with science policy today, and I would also like to highlight it in the corresponding budget chapter. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Grünewald) Pretty wrong, the story!]] If you already call and always refer to my corporation, I tell you clearly and clearly – and I have said it here more often –: [[Abg. Oils: It was forbidden!]] As a burger, I stand in the good tradition of a Theodor Herzl, Victor Adler, Pernerstorfer or also of a Lassalle and an Wilhelm Exner, who is a representative of my neighbor and after whom the university is still named. I just want to write that to you in the main book. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] After whom of your family friends is a university named? A family friend of yours is Mr Schily, Germany's Minister of the Interior, also a citizen, but in his tradition I am no longer, I tell you with all the clarity! [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] He's your family friend! [[Abg. Oillinger: Was the "Olympia" not prohibited under the NS Prohibition Act?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction of Greens) Please take a look at the facts!]] We are essentially dealing with science policy today. I don't have much time to deal with it. It is really a pity that in the past, science policy has always slipped into a so-called Pragmatization debate or Pragmatization policy. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the Free and Greens.]] It is always to be heard that research, the free science, the development of science are at risk if it does not remain in the Pragmatization of the scientific medium building, but also of the professors. I am telling you at this point that we must have a profound, wide-ranging debate on this. It cannot be just the job security that one believes to see in Pragmatization. In fact, if we could only be researched efficiently if we were pragmatized, since we in Austria had the highest degree of Pragmatization in Europe, the last Nobel prize winners would have to come from Austria. – But that is not the case! In my opinion, with a broad and broad field of work, efficient research at the university is possible, even if we are entering new employment conditions in the future and there. A debate on this is necessary and still needs to be held during this legislative period. We, the representatives of the government parties, will also hold this debate, because we believe that such an information must be provided. Unfortunately God has cost me almost all my speaking time, but I think it was necessary to tell you this once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We've been discussing enough, but not everything yet. After my last Scientific Committee meeting, you said that you thanked Mr Graf for the efficient, objective and correct Presidency. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I'm different!]] Let us also keep it that way in the future, and you will notice that you are involved in science policy in this House. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is the new form of governance, and we will continue to invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3787	Mrs Schasching has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3808	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the previous debate and thank Mr Groenewald for some information. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What did he clear up?]] It is also very important to me to know again and again what spirit is behind so many ideas and behind some ideas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is crazy! ... unhistorical!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're telling us what that was!]] It is very important – and given the many young people sitting in the gallery, the more important it is to make this clear again and again and to listen to the self-evangelizing answers to find out whose mind child are some of your ideological and political goals. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What to make clear?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What is "our mind child"?]] We will not discuss this now, because I do not want to point out once again what you think about black Africans – not today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should stick to the truth! I talked about drug dealers!]] But I would now like to come back to the budget debate, on the subject of 'education', because this is what I am talking about in my speech today. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's better!]] I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister, for your praise for the dedicated teachers. I would like to thank you very much for saying that they are one of the most important components of the school and that they are indispensable, so you are also at the staff costs. It is also important for me to note this, because, especially at my school, a lot of innovation, a lot of attempts, a lot of future-oriented learning is being made on new forms of learning. I would like to ask you to do this today for future work in school and also for the budget and further development in the field of school tests. It is also important to me to note that today I have the opportunity to look at a matter that differs from the previous ones, as the ÖVP always meant on all previous points that it would not have been there. You of the ÖVP have never been dealing with the past, but always said: Yes, Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger has done that, and this is what Mrs Prammer has done! It would've been all wrong, and you wouldn't have known anything. In this case, however, it was Mrs. Gehrer, and in this case it can also be pointed out that the Court of Auditors, which we heard here two days ago in the form of Mr. President-in-Office of the Council, even noted that there was some in the past in the arrogance and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs Gehrer was responsible for it. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No? The ÖVP? It wasn't in the government! Never join me!]] – That is exactly why I would like to mention this today, because there you were with us in the government! [[Abg. Auer: We're still in government!]] If Mr Fiedler said that there had been no other system errors like that in this ministry that many consolidation targets had not been achieved, and if he had pointed out the blatant budgetary overruns, then one must make this clear again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Like one of my previous speakers, Mr Brosz, I would also like to say that I do not want to go into the reverse, but that we need to save a lot of money now. On the contrary! In this area, we must set the right objectives for education, for the training of young people, and we must make every effort to find a way forward. We have defined our educational goals, in the past we have always been the motor in the field of education, and we want to be that in the future. That is why I ask you to: Please read our education programme, we are also ready to cooperate in this respect. I would just like to say to Mr Schweitzer that we should work constructively with him: We already want to work constructively, but if he imagines working constructively means doing what he wants, then he was wrong! Such constructiveness will not exist from us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say very briefly that, in response to one of my questions regarding the matter of school tests, you have mentioned that these, especially in the field of secondary school, expire in two years, and you still have to evaluate and request or read studies. On this subject we would like to point out briefly: The secondary school has already been evaluated twice. There is also a third study on this area. There is an Israiloff study you have always quoted, in which, as you, Mrs. Federal Minister, also know very well, is tried to prove, for example, by means of a single student's work, that a student of the polytechnic course gets away worse in this system. A single student's work is shown in this! I would ask you not always to quote this Israeloff study, because it is not really representative! But there is, and you know that exactly, a study by Olechowski. This one, however, has 500 pages! So you have to take some time and make the effort to read it too. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, I know her!]] – Mrs Brinek, I would have liked to add something to this in your direction too, but unfortunately now it is no longer possible. Perhaps we can discuss this later. Try it anyway, take this Olechowski study once as the basis of research, then you will come to quite different results, because this work is much more well-founded. On the middle level, I would just like to say the following: We know that there is a wonderful cooperation in this area in agglomeration centres, especially in Vienna, and that there are first-class school experiments. The Vienna Education Advisory Council has also decided, with the agreement of all the parties, to carry out these studies and to develop them further. It was really all the parties with it! Especially in the agglomeration area, initiatives are hereby put in place and targets for the students we need for our future and for the viability of the economy. If today the economy demands that we train young people to be able to team up, that they also receive life-long learning from us, then I need open learning, then I need project teaching, then I need learning workshop work, research and discovery learning. It also requires a new form of performance assessment, one must go away from the digits and to learn-oriented assessment, to the commented performance template. All of this already exists! This is excellently cited in many examples, which is also evaluated – you know! – and this should not end up as an attempt at school in two years, but in the future also involve in the general education system – in the sense of the viability of our students, in the sense of equal opportunities for our young people, for our country and for better education. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e3994	Mrs Wolfmayr spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4016	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous ideological principle debate was certainly very important and revealing. However, I would like to return to the subject, to the budget, and to draw attention to where the Federal Minister was at first also, on the subject with the many "e" and "i". I am sorry, Mr Niederwieser, that you have found it necessary to submit your own own initiative proposal in this respect instead of joining in with what is already and for itself in our work programme. I have found no contradiction and therefore cannot find your request for it as necessary. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] E-learning, e-commerce, Internet, e-Austria, e-Europe, these are the terms that we – which Mrs Minister has already pointed out – are currently everywhere. The work on the computer as the fourth new cultural technology in addition to reading, writing and computing is becoming increasingly important on a daily basis, and the new technologies – we all know – are essential for securing jobs and for the further development of the economy, and are no longer essential for thinking away from cultural and art life, neither from primary or secondary. That means to me: On the one hand, the artists are working with it, and new forms of art are developing through the work on and with the computer, on the other hand, new possibilities for communication are also emerging for politics and civil society. The cultural administration will be easier, more comprehensive and faster to mediate. The collection of works of art by digitization and the exchange of information on this subject becomes normal. However, we are only on our way there, and teachers have to learn first and to catch up a lot to pass on the knowledge of information technologies. Founded knowledge in the field of new media, special training and skilled professionals is necessary. We will also need resuscitation from abroad and promotions until we can really understand ourselves as a networked knowledge society in which every man and woman is of course involved in dealing with the Internet and the new information technologies. In any case, learning will in the future become a lifelong process, lustful and medial. I refer to an article in the current "profile" and quote briefly: "Formized knowledge is no longer needed in the information age. The ability to obtain and evaluate information is important. Learning fabric, which is constantly outdated, is a virtue of yesterday’s,” says Vienna City School Council President Kurt Scholz." From modern information and communication technology, however, a leap to the very concrete, non-virtual and real culture, to art and to the places where it is collected, preserved and made accessible to the public. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a personal concern to me. I have always enjoyed visiting museums and galleries, and at the same time I have many contacts with contemporary artists of various directions and styles. Love of art, to the old as well as to the new, is worth a lot to me, like many people. I never want to know one against the other. Unfortunately, many of us do not yet know what a museum can be in the best sense, because they have never experienced exemplary museums, for example in Holland or Germany, in France or the USA, museums, their high standard of interesting and exciting presentation, as well as quality of exhibits and accompanying culinary measures, we reach slowly, but inexorably and safely – not least, I think, thanks to the incessantness and determination of our Lady Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to refer specifically to the Kunsthistorische Museum, because it is a model example of innovative museum culture in two ways, and I would like to focus on it now. It is the first museum in Austria that has dared the transition to the new legal form of a scientific institution of public law. At the same time, the digital recording of its stocks is well-deserved and in large parts already accessible to the public. I went online: www.khm.at. I would also like to recommend this to you, because I was really surprised and excited, both by the modern logo and by the way it is prepared and prepared, because it offers all the information you need: Views of the various museum complexes, plan, individual departments, permanent collections, current exhibitions, as well as the past years, works of art in detail, in photo and description, artist's biographies, but also organization, admission prices, discounts, disability justice to the museum shop and its offers. I would like to stress that in addition to the conventional exhibitions, which also have their audiences, there is of course also a stage for modern, contemporary art in the Kunsthistorisches Museum with various connected locations, such as the Palais Harrach. Due to the new form of organisation of jurisdiction, the management remains at least great scope for action. Business and museum regulations, construction, personnel planning and design are made responsible under operational principles such as economy, economic efficiency and efficiency. I was told that the benefits outweighed with ease in my personal conversation. First of all, autonomy has made possible, and there is greater flexibility in organizational issues, second, money has no more machinery, one is now free in the classification of the funds, and thirdly, there is no establishment plan. Free as required, the museum's management can now dispossess. Of course, there are also shadows and risks that I do not want to hide from you. The management is fully liable, there is no longer a state liability. Or: Artworks must be insured. This entails costs and some technical difficulties. Payments must be made once for real estate or rent on the basis of transfer contracts. A problem is also the basic financing, which in this case is recorded in the law with 920 million schilling and is therefore frozen. Basta! That's all there is to it. Difficult and not undisputed in the public discourse are also modern and customer-oriented service facilities that are designed to help improve the financial environment. On the one hand, we have the so-called non-profit area, i.e. the actual museum area, which serves research, documentation, expansion and presentation of the collection items, and on the other hand – and this is very often attributed to the museums – the profit area, which includes, for example, the museum shop or special events, but also the rental of premises, repro and sponsoring. The purpose of the profit area is to support and subsidize additional funds for subsidising the non-profit sector, a problem for the budget item, which alone represents 46 percent of the total cost, with funding from the federal government only covering current costs. This is, in any case, a huge challenge for the museums. Nevertheless: Full justice seems to prove itself, and the digitization of works of art is under way. Questions over the Internet are constantly increasing. One wants no more reproductions, but electronically prepared image material for further use. The Internet appearance has been prepared by the Kunsthistorisches Museum for a year and a half and will soon be complete. So far, a few hundred objects have been recorded, but registration is ongoing. It is also thought – what I find interesting – that only as a small remark by the way – to take the sculptures and objects not only as a photo, but also in three-dimensional form. The possibilities offered by the Internet in this regard are enormous. Digital cameras allow such interesting three-dimensional recordings. To sum up, I would like to say that the following picture has come out of all the experiences and information available to me: Full justice is well established, and with the progressive digitization, we are in the best way to achieve a modern, internationally sustainable, artistic, aesthetic and technical level on a regulated financial basis with a clear structure under the so-called slim administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4107	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4128	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not really want to talk about this chapter, but of course it was the speech of Mr Graf, who has prompted me to address a very unsavory subject here in a debate contribution and also to try a bridge of science and education. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: me?]] I will not only speak to Mr Graf, but, Mr Graf, what you have said is unfortunately just a very small section of reality, and I will try to present what it is all about now. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: From your point of view!]] In 1961, the "Olympia", belonging to Mr. Graf, was officially banned by the Ministry of the Interior for National Socialist Re-activities and for participation in terrorist activities. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: We are discussing the teaching budget 2000, Mr. Cot.]] [[Abg. Steibl: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: On the matter!]] I am talking about the chairman of the Scientific Committee, and that is the matter. In 1961, this citizenship was banned, and, according to the Ministry of the Interior, it has not been re-established since then, it is genuinely banned. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Master Oillinger, it's about the budget!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you have anything to say to the budget?]] Unfortunately, I have to hold here: The chairman of the Scientific Committee, the colleague Graf, is a member of an association prohibited by national socialist re-acting. Imagine this, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like There you can shake the head, it corresponds to the facts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: It's about the budget, Master!]] [[Abg. Steibl: What corresponds to the facts?]] The re-foundation attempt of the "Olympia" has taken place on detours, so to speak, by calling it "Academic Table Round Olympia". But now, of course, the Burschenschaft, which Mr. Graf, belongs to, in the public appearance, says again "Olympia". And if a chairman of the Scientific Committee or his fellowmanship is publicly famous with racist jokes... [[Abg. Steibl: He'll start again!]] I'm starting? "Rassist jokes", which is a quote from the writing of "Olympia". [[Abg. May. Saviour: Talk about the budget at last!]] And if you think I should get a call for order to read what the "Olympia" is famous for, then the fun will be stopped anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Racist and/or at least unappetising men's whites – this is the program of the "Olympia" citizenship. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] But it's getting worse. In 1991 – this is also a time when Mr. Graf worked in the "Olympia" civil society – the "Olympia" at the Burschentag of the German Burschenschaft – and this is not about the German Peoples' Group in particular, but about it more – made a request, in which it is said, among other things: "the migration of the German people by members of foreign peoples", "the threat of biological and cultural substance of the German people", "the German people is effectively protecting against the under-migration of their peoples by foreigners". [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You don't know anything about science!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Stand You're behind this request? Are you behind these findings that are being made? You're a representative, and you've been representing the "Olympia" guy for a long time. That's not a small thing! And the 1997 sentence, quoted in the "spiegel" – that was already a number of years after the German unification, Mr. Deputie Graf – has it in itself, if you read it in this context. He's got it in him! It is not about the unification of the Federal Republic's borders – you know that very well – but the "Olympia" citizenship has a somewhat larger German people's space ahead of itself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What are you talking about?]] It is indeed about the fact that the German people are to be restored in their spreads far beyond the former GDR borders, up to Poland. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No word for the budget!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How do you keep it with the DDR wall guns?]] Mr Haigermoser! That's one of the stupidest calls, but I can't expect anything else from you. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] I don't want to...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4367	Deputies! For the statement "That's one of the dumbest calls!" I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4385	Mr President. However, I also expect you to support Mr Haigermoser's interlocutory remark, which you may not have heard: "How do you keep it with the DDR wallers?", give an order call. I expect you to do that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As a speaker, I am not willing to let any stupid polemics presented by an intermediate call please me. [[Abg. Young: You don't want to listen to the stupid polemics – and we don't want the stupid talk!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: On the matter!]] What I have tried in my contribution to the debate – and we can talk about it – is to talk exclusively about the person of the chairman of the Scientific Committee or about content. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm coming because you're saying "On the matter!", actually on the matter. It has changed a little on the climate in the country. [[Abg. Boy: Yes, by your behavior! Yesterday, for example, by my colleague Pilz!]] It has changed a little, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to address two issues again in this context, also because I know that the Federal Minister, at least as far as I know her, has been very sensitive in these matters. [[Ongoing calls for tender in the liberals]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are looking forward to the changed climate!]] [[Abg. Young: It's a question of what colleague Pilz did to the Brigades in Cuba!]] One is the "initiative preparedness", with which legal extremity should be sent to schools via a department of your ministry, which you then immediately suppressed – I hope a question response is still pending – but it is symptomatic for me, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe you don't know this here in the high house. That is why some comments are made. A department for the spiritual defence of your ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister, will apply for an "initiative resistance" which will also be applied for the use of schools, obviously as a counter-programme for the very successful action "time witnesses at schools", in which resistance fighters, resistance fighters, persecuted Jews, Jews were sent to the schools and there reported on the time of their persecution or resistance. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] "Altcommunists" is what you think. Does that really matter to you? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, yes!]] [[Further 'yes' call at the ÖVP.]] Very interesting! Then we'll discuss it! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Ebergassing understands this!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Do you want these people in schools to be able to tell about the time of their persecution – no matter what attitude they come from, but they were persecuted in the time of National Socialism – or not? Does it bother you that including communists? Does it bother you that among them were old communists? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The purcheller was also below!]] Does it bother you that among them are people with Catholic or other past? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: It bothers me that the purcheller was underneath! Your friend Purtscheller was below! He was a witness! I'm so upset!]] [[Abg. Kiss: There are also left-extremists among old communists! That's a fact!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about the "initiative preparedness." What bothers me is that in the context of the "Initiative Wehrwilling" attempt was made to send well-known right-wing extremists to the schools under a neutral coat to report there about their time in the Wehrmacht. You have to read the text in an official publication of the Ministry of Education, with which this "initiative resistance" was applied, very carefully. I too had to read this very carefully to get on with the tricks contained in this text. [[Abg. Boy: You did it?]] And that's it, Mrs. Federal Minister, which has so irritated me on this matter. That's what it says: "On the other hand, media are often reported about the Wehrmacht, with the truth sometimes too short." [[Abg. Boy: That's right, too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Right!]] Yeah, I didn't expect that from your side. I really didn't expect that to happen. [[Abg. Young: Because you are the great boss who judges what is true or not!]] This takes into account an essential argument of the proponents of this "initiative preparedness", which is that there has been systematic reeducation in the Austrian schools, in the Austrian public since 1945. And you're still defending it! Let us hold this for the discussion that may result from it. [[Abg. May. Saviour: That's incredible! That's the premise!]] Let's hold on to this: It is said by the proponents of this "initiative resistance" that the Austrian people are systematically being re-educated. [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] And there is written in this text: In the media, the truth about the Wehrmacht is sometimes too short. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Let's hold this for the KGB!]] [[Abg. Young: You are a verbal environmental pollution!]] Imagine that! This is verbal pollution! [[Abg. Young: You are a verbal environmental pollution! You want to heat up the climate in this country! They want to hit!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I note that in the context of this "Initiative Weirship" famous Holocaust liars – well-known Holocaust liars! – were used, for example, by Mr Marinovic, who is invited by organisations as a speaker, who do not belong to the neo-Nazi camp as clearly as otherwise. [[Abg. Young: Your goal will not be reached!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign]] For example, Mr Marinovic has been active as a speaker in the aid organisation for national prisoners in Germany, the HNG – Mr. Graf’s representative will perhaps know it. Or Mr. Kosmath, who has also acted as a spokesman for this initiative, writes in the "Aula" – he knows Mr. Graf –: The claim by German media that the Wehrmacht was committed in the Second World War is surprising in view of the hundreds of statements by the victors, who attest decent and disciplined behavior to the Wehrmacht and the Waffen-SS. – Such people, ladies and gentlemen, should – should – report completely unpolitically to schools?- Oh, my God! I am glad, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have suppressed this approach, on the other hand, I am annoyed that in your house there is a department for intellectual defence, which obviously wants to see the propaganda of such initiatives as a contribution to the intellectual defense of the country. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Purchellers don't!]] I am looking forward to the answer to the question and also to your opinion here in this House, which steps you have taken in this regard. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: You still haven't distanced yourself from the wall shots!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! However, I would like to take the opportunity to draw attention to something else, namely a question put to you by Mr Brosz, whose reply will be due in the next few weeks. This is about the schoolbook "Meilensteine der Geschichte", in which, among other things, the relevant formulations of the diktat peace in Versailles, are used by the Reichsklassnacht. [[Abg. Young: Do you want to say that Versailles...!]] In addition, uncommented sentences like those of Winifred Wagner are printed, in which it reads: And there it was obvious that, once we say, German-sensitive people tried to join together and also somewhere after a guided tour – also somewhere after a guided tour! – demanded. [[Abg. Young: Read the logs in this house about Versailles!]] Member of Parliament, young man! I don't know why you're upset when I quote that. The excitement lies on my side, and I tell you that it is justified. [[Abg. Young: It was a forced peace! You want to turn this around now!]] If such formulations are used in school books when attempts are made to send such speakers as those of the "initiative resistance" to schools, if the chairman of the Scientific Committee, Mr. Count, is not dissociated, is not willing to distance himself from these formulations which I have proposed and which come from his citizenship "Olympia", then, ladies and gentlemen, your speech of patriotism in recent weeks is more than revealed. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We're holding all this for the KGB!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Distance yourself from the walls!]] Mr Khol! I also expect your group as a coalition partner to deliver an opinion on this, because it would be more than appropriate in the interests of your fatherly love. Between German-tumbling patriotism, German-national patriotism and an Austrian patriotism, there is probably a home-high difference, which in history is well founded and foundationable. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And I would like to know this difference because it is essential for political hygiene in this country, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4825	Mr Graf, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke on an actual correction. – Please hold Follow the provisions of § 58 GOG and begin with the text to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4849	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Oellinger has accused me of being a member of a civil society dissolved in 1961 for national socialist re-acting. I would just like to say that this accusation is diffamatory and incorrect: I'm on the 11th. Born May 1960 and thus became 40 years old yesterday. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Congratulations!]] You're supposed to be a member of a boyhood that was banned in 1961. At that time, I was obviously 12 months old, and today you are blaming me for this attitude I had at the time. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I'm the second one to say: To prove that I have no bad mind against your view, I lead the former Minister of the Interior Schlögl, who confirmed to me last year – as every year, when I made a request like all members of the Stapo Committee – that there are no state police records against my person. I would also like to add – you may be interested in this – that I am not mentioned until now in the "Handbuch des Rechtsextremisms", published by the documentation archive of Austrian resistance. [[Abg. May. Posch: Correction!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4914	Deputies! Please finish the actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4929	I assume I'm not mentioned in it. I would like to say one thing: I am a patriot, and it lives the free Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4963	Mr Kogler spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e4984	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Two days ago, I quite agree that in the Haidlmayr case, you have chosen a very prudent procedure, but I have to say now that the practice of issuing calls for orders from parts of the Bureau of this House is simply not balanced for the minutes and for the further debate in the Bureau. I am in favour of this because Mr Haigermoser's intentional calls for interlocutors to be constantly uncertain to the speakers here, in their salary are often infamed enough, are infantile from the method, and I would expect that one should also look at this side of the House and not always call on the Social Democratic Group and the Greens for values that must be possible in this House to order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5019	Deputies! You have the Intermediation means: "How do you keep it with the walls of the GDR?" And think this deserved a call for order. – I am not of this opinion. On the other hand, I believe that the statement "That's one of the dumbest calls!" It is very likely that there will be a very good number of calls for orders. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You may ask questions!]] The next speaker was Mrs Zierler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5049	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If I recapitulate the last few minutes, then there will be a result: cheap polemics, superiority, loss of reality and extremely great embarrassment, Mr Oillinger! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But we should actually talk here today and now about the fields of art and culture – areas that have enormous significance for our government. Art understanding has not only leased left-wing groups. We do not see our mission to promote only a small elite circle, to support a small elite circle, just as it has been done in Austria in recent years. There are two groups: There is, once we face this, on the one hand, the published opinion. The published opinion is the following: Where liberals rule, artists in army crowds will leave the country! – The fact is: In Carinthia, no artist has left the country because of Jörg Haider, on the contrary, there is a very constructive cooperation – even if only today a pamphlet of the het has been published by your Federal Councillor Trunk. The opinion published is: With the FPÖ in the Federal Government, renowned artists must and will emigrate. The fact is: After the announcements, which were well-selling in the media, no action followed – and I emphasize that I also think it is very good. However, it also proves the inaccuracy of the accusations and, in my opinion, very much suggests that there was only one motivation here, namely the motivation of the headlines. Austria is and remains an art and culture country, and all artists are welcome. The policy of the liberals is not a policy of exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll invite you, take an example of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I do not want to miss out on this point on reminding all those who have defamed our government of their responsibilities, their responsibilities for Austria and hence also for the people who live in Austria. This also means responsibility for 1.2 million people who have chosen the FPÖ and are neither right-wing nor national socialist nor fascist. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We do not only promote the way you constantly submit ourselves, pleasant harbinger culture. Conflict culture belongs to the culture of our country. For example, recently, prominent critics of the government such as Grissemann and Stermann Berlin, and by the way, with friendly and financial support from the official Austria. If you don't know who Grissemann and Stermann are anymore, maybe I can remind you of some quotations. These were the two gentlemen who said they had to shoot Haider, someone who has only two months left to live. Or: The only table where you can see yourself with Haider is the obduct table on which it lies. Or: The Austrian voters are a full idiot. – These were the statements of these two artists, who could very well be supported by the official Austria. Claim So you don't want us to engage in political culture! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's huge!]] I also invite you to finally end your campaign of lies, diffamations and submissions, because the fact is that with this campaign, your statements not only harm all the people in Austria, but in particular also the artists. There are countless examples of this, with only one thing I would like to read: Spanish sanctions against musicians. The sanctions imposed on the EU Member States against Austria are becoming increasingly extensive in the field of culture and sometimes take grotesque forms. Thus, the measures taken by Spain affect a six-member ensemble, namely a Spanish woman, an Italian, a German and three Austrians, who had planned a tour through Morocco in autumn. The concerts had to be cancelled. The reason for this was: Cultural cooperation with Austria is not desirable. – I congratulate you on this success. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a tired matter! You've never been better!]] The fact is that you harm Austria, the Austrian artists. We may also talk about the project of the Linz Music Theatre. Let's talk about the popular survey. This is not about a policy of prevention, it is about a responsible policy. For example, there is an estimate that this project will cost 1.6 billion schilling. However, the construction costs of the planned parking garage are not yet included. If one calculates these, the cost of construction is about 2 billion schilling. The calculated deficit per day is 700 000 p. There is also an estimate, and after that only about 5 percent of all Upper Austrians would regularly attend an opera performance. There are for and against this Linz music theatre, for the Linz Opera, but there are also numerous reviews. I believe that it is really in the decision of the people affected by this, and that is why there is also a popular survey. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you look at the figures, you can see that 87 percent of the population in Upper Austria is voting for a popular survey. In my opinion, what is crucial is that 56 percent of music theatre promoters are in favour of a decision by the citizen. And we feel committed to the citizen. Democracy means a rule of the people, whether it be a popular survey on the project of the Linz Opera or whether it is a popular survey of the EU sanctions. For the SPÖ and for the Greens, the reputation for a popular survey obviously has the connotation of a threat. They want to move the people – on the other hand, we give the people of Austria the right of their own right in the sense of democracy, namely the right to co-determination.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5152	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5174	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I am shocked by the non-existent European spirit on the right side of Parliament. This one has a very hard time taking a foot. This view is expressed by listening to your opinions. - That's one. [[Abg. Neudeck: How do you derive this from?]] The second is: Mrs. Zierler! You probably don't know each other in the Carinthian art scene. There are very many Carinthian artists who no longer want to exhibit in Carinthia for well-known reasons. [[Abg. Neudeck: Where are they?]] I would like to comment today on education policy. Once you have heard the statements of FPÖ and ÖVP, you think that in the field of education in Austria everything is fine that it would actually be an educational paradise. It is de facto that teachers do good work, but they also need more support. Although it says that there are enough opportunities for students to find the profession they have actually chosen – reality is different. Statistics prove something different. For example, in every fifth higher school, the number of classes is higher, in the AHS this is the case in every tenth class. This is the state of autumn 1999. This applies particularly to the technical schools, which is particularly true for training courses for computer, electronics and also niches as well as higher technical educational institution for furniture and interior design. However, the trend towards secondary and higher schools is not new, it has been very long, and many suitable pupils have to be rejected every year. The fact that these young people don't appear in statistics then is that they are looking in despair for any other direction they didn't really want. It seems to me to be paradoxical when vocational orientation is offered in the lower levels and the students are then simply left in the rain. This situation is also problematic with regard to the drop-out rates – as a result – in the first classes of these high and middle-level schools. One has to imagine: After the first class, a quarter of the students leave and Pupils return to school because they chose a wrong branch because they had to choose a wrong branch, because there was not enough room for them. In order for young people not to remain completely in the rain and not to be pushed into nothing, God has been postponed for a number of years thanks to the improper section that forbids students to repeat the first class in several Not enough. Ladies and gentlemen! That's too little. This section is removed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This section is opposed to an age group, namely the 14 to 16-year-olds, who, as you may remember, have other interests at this age and, so to speak, extend their senses to explore the world. It would be bad if the young people didn't! In addition, the interface problem. There are different requirements from the schools. The students come to too large classes, they have bad grades, are frustrated and often leave this school in which they have gone. However, from a modern pedagogy, ladies and gentlemen, it is expected that it is supportive that it is not punishing and not outlawed at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that does not mean that the SPÖ is against performance. Performance is something very important. But – and this is the big difference – we admit to young people that they have the possibility of developing. Development is therefore the key word – but not from today on to tomorrow, not so that everyone will be driven the same way and have only the same development possibility, but they will be able to develop at their own speed. The young people are an important impulse for our society in their colorfulness and diversity. All of this has to be implemented. There would have to be a new dynamic in school life, promotion courses would have to be offered, not only in the technical field, but also in the so-called key qualifications, in social skills, conflict resolution strategies, communication techniques and the like. However, we need units of value, and we need more support for teachers and training opportunities. If it says: Autonomy, every school can do that, then I think that's unfair. You have to be very careful, because autonomy is not the same as lack of administration. Mrs. Minister! As Minister of Education, you must make a modern pedagogy possible. You are responsible for this, and I think that the right to appropriate training for everyone and everyone must remain the central point in our society. I am in favour of this, and the SPÖ is in favour of it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5239	The next speaker was Mr Leiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5261	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, let me express some critical thoughts about our medical faculties. The quality of the teaching in medicine is still considered out of discussion by most teachers today, by the students as inexistent or at least clearly worthy of improvement and assessed by the public, if at all, only on the basis of medical success or failure. This is not only true in Austria, but consequences have actually been drawn only abroad, not in Austria. Thure von Uexküll pointed to the paradigm change in medical studies in the symposia "Quality of Teaching in Medicine" when the philosopher was abolished and the physics was introduced. Today we are again at a turning point where we have to realize that this was a mistake and that we have to come back from the purely natural-scientific training with the accumulation of individual and factual knowledge to an education based on man and his environment, his social environment and his psyche and to a holistic view and link in teaching education. But that means we have to build up the philosopher and a nursing science. Quality management in teaching begins at the head. As certainly not representative, but dissuasively honest here was a statement by a scientist and highly regarded university teacher of the Innsbruck Faculty, who said on his way to lecture that he was going into the hall of the dead eyes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This could also happen to Parliament at times!]] If you look into the hall like that, yes. [[Abg. Kiss: The hall of tired eyes!]] Quality management is a dynamic process that runs at different levels. And it is extremely important that the students be integrated with the professors and lecturers in this process! In Austria, this process has begun, and I hope that it will take the right direction. I would like to sum up briefly some serious shortcomings in medical training at our university. First: There are still structures of an elite university in the turn of the century, which are no longer suitable for the current mass university. Secondly, The study is characterized by an unheard-of detail overload – in the absence of coordination and overview knowledge and lack of support for independent work and independent thinking. Thirdly, Some important subjects are not at all, reluctant or inadequately taught, such as psychotherapist thinking and action, communication training and conversational management, implementation of own decision-making and opinion-making, old age medicine, rehabilitation medicine, ethics, law regarding humanitarian content. Some of the current issues that are discussed again and again today should also be addressed here, for example the restriction of approval, the Numerus claususus. I believe that there is not only a rational intelligence, but also the emotional, the social intelligence, which is much more important to a doctor than the rational intelligence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Fischl: Bravo!]] But how is that measurable? – Very difficult, therefore you cannot allow any corresponding restriction. For tuition fees. I don't understand why I shouldn't pay tuition fees for my son. [[Abg. Riepl: You have it easy!]] – Yes, that would be easy! [[Abg. Riepl: You have it easy, I said!]] – When I studied, it was different. I had to earn the study myself. But I didn't get anything back then. I would like to pay tuition fees, socially staged. But those who can't pay it should definitely be allowed to study. A few words on the appointment of board members. Professor Grünewald, I think we know what we are talking about. Three or more tasks are assigned to the Board of Directors of a Faculty of Medicine: the teaching, research and management of a medical department. This requires much greater competence than the impact factor alone. I don't think it's too much. Rather, we need, above all, organizational talent, communication capacity, ability to talk, emotional and social intelligence and sensitivity. I would like to point out something else in very critical terms. In the academic career there is the title of the university lecturer, i.e. in German "Teacher". There are about 500 lecturers and professors at the Faculty of Medicine in Vienna who do not give their lectures. They cancel the lecture in order to keep the title, as required, but they will not be able to do so because of the lack of hearing. Well-marked: These are qualified academic teachers! They are legally obliged to use their teaching quality for the university. But this commitment will only be fulfilled by us pro forma with the announcement of the lecture. If these teachers and professors were to lead small groups as tutors and teach these groups systematically, then our medical faculties would have world reputation! Then our universities would be the best, and we didn't need a lot more staff and not much money. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Povysil.]] As far as dental studies are concerned, I would like to point out that the preparation of the new medical law will involve appropriate staff and therefore remove a lot of problems. We have also had to take on a socialist heritage with regard to the scientific budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5369	The next item is the speech by Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5391	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make two or three comments on previous speakers. First of all, Mr Leiner. He said he'd like to pay tuition fees for his son. – Deputies! Do it! [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I can't!]] – But of course! Please speak to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Security, she is from the same group anyway. There will be some educational account. Pay voluntarily! Go ahead with good example! If you have too much money, pay it! The whole Republic will thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I'd love to do it! Maybe as a donation to the SPÖ, to your party register!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister, in her speech, has one, as I said, important sentence, which I would like to correct a little, and I ask you not to be evil for this, Mrs Federal Minister. You said that in your eyes the teachers were the most important part of the school. – I would say that they are an important part, but for me the most important thing is clearly the students, i.e. those people who go to school for which we as politicians must be there with regard to the design of the legal bases. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Where is the huge difference?]] Maybe we can agree, teachers and students are just as important, then I'm with you. At any rate, we should not forget the students in a discussion that concerns school, education. Ladies and gentlemen! The opportunities in the labour market, the opportunities for employment are closely linked to training. At the end of April, there were 194,000 unemployed people in our country, 16 percent less than at the same time of the previous year, i.e. positive developments in the labour market. However, 88 000 of these 194,000 unemployed people – almost half of the unemployed – have only the compulsory school as the highest degree of education. That is why I believe that education, training and, above all, teaching, apprenticeship training are important in our system. In recent years, apprenticeship training for firms has been reduced by many of the measures required by the economy. We have reduced and partially deleted the social security contributions. Tax exemptions were introduced for the economy, but this only led to less revenue in the budgets and not to what we had hoped for, namely, more apprenticeships. There was no increase in the number of apprenticeships, but, on the contrary, the industrial economy has been less and less committed to recruiting apprentices. For example, in 1997, there were 38 000 apprentices in the first year of education in the industrial economy, and two years later, in 1999, after we carried out promotional measures and approvals, it was only 35,674. So the more one has given in, the more incentives one has created, the less apprentices the commercial economy has employed, the fewer teaching posts the members of the Chamber of Commerce have offered. So these measures have brought nothing but gifts for the training firms, but they are training apprentices anyway. At the same time, there is already a complaint about the shortage of skilled workers. A press release by the Austrian Institute for Trade and Crafts Research of 11th April. May I take away: "Competition complains of acute shortage of skilled workers. At present, 30 000 additional employees are already missing." – Reason enough to think about the training of our young professionals. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What we need is a new form of financing apprenticeship training. A proposal from us Social Democrats would be to leave some of the economic contributions made by the economy to the budget not entirely to the surplus from the insolvency fund, and thus to finance a vocational training fund. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, training firms could be effectively supported and thus offer real incentives to raise the level of willingness to train. Unfortunately, Mr Maderthaner is no longer here, but I say this to all representatives of the economy: You have the chance to save money from the economy for the economy! Take this opportunity! We support I'm sure you'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen! Until this is the case, we want to ensure the further, urgently necessary funding of the youth reception network with our own initiative, which has been allocated to the Committee. By the way, it would be necessary to decide quickly to extend the Youth Education Security Act so that vocational schools can also make the necessary planning for the autumn of this year. I know your position on this, Mrs Bundesminister. They are not opposed if there is a need. There are already federal states that have told you their needs. That is why I expect you to do everything within the Federal Government to extend the Youth Training Security Act. But it is also about justice in education – and that is what I am about to conclude. There are vocational students, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs Federal Minister, who do not create a vocational school. They sit down once and therefore do not complete. Unfortunately, in our current system in such cases, there is no right to continue to attend the vocational school in order to obtain a degree. This is because, as we all know, the vocational schooling is bound by the teaching period. But it would be fair for those who do not create vocational education but whose teaching time is already finished to find a way of resuming this degree. We should make this possible for them. I would therefore like to discuss this issue today, because there may be an opportunity in the Committee to think specifically about whether there are possibilities for it. By the way, I believe that many of the Federal Government's actions, many of the budget's actions, are provoking a growing number of people in our country. At this protest, the Social Democrats will certainly be on the side of the Protestants. I think I can promise. We will be on the sides of the little ones when it comes to burdening little ones and burdening big ones! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5500	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5521	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You have to change your life, Rimbaud has said. You have to change the world, Marx said. - Both were wrong. You have to make life more diverse and multiply the world – that is culture. This is culture, and not totalitarian thinking! Learn democracy, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Greens, but also from the Socialists! Learn! This is a sentence your former party chairman once said: Learn history! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Before you draw on one of our Members in such a degulant way! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: (a book with a black and red-gold envelope in height) This is totalitarian!]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Start at the Haider!]] An insight into cultural diversity and the possibilities not only of the past, but also of the present and future offer our museums and our protected monuments. Do you know how many museums there are in Vienna? - 150! These are just as many as the Wiener Theater and the Wiener Kinos combined. Today, however, museums are also important sites of non-university research and encounter with the school and education sector. To guide them, to keep them needs new ways. One step to this was already a partial release into jurisdiction. A second step is the question of financing, which, in turn, must include the private initiative in addition to the public sector. Oscar Wilde says: "When bankers get together, they talk about art. When artists get together, they talk about money." Culture can be partly self-sustaining, but only if there is proper management, and public cultural promotion can be a catalyst for a private fund-raising. Organizations in the arts and culture fields are motivated to collect money, because the public amount will only be paid out if a multiple of this amount is applied via private sponsorship for the first time. The most important condition for this is a new and innovative tax legislation, as the often argued. But the concept of merchandising is also a way to use the marketing of your own logo or the marketing of museum-related products to make money itself. Whether you take the Monument Guard in the Netherlands or the National Trust in the United Kingdom, most countries already have their private initiatives and voluntary helpers, including the memorial care models in monument protection. The revenues of the German Foundation for Monument Care come about 61 percent – where do you think? – from the lottery and 28 percent from donations. In 1985, this foundation was founded by 23 companies. Today it is supported by 80 000 promoters. Where did this idea originate? – Some Landlords could no longer afford the preservation of their seats on the basis of taxes and on the basis of the large areas. It was therefore transferred to the Foundation to retain the right of residence. It was subsequently renovated and guaranteed by means of a foundation for the preservation of these goods. The same could, of course, be applied in Austria. A similar concept exists in Austria in relation to modern art, namely the concept "Rent a painting". Several pay in one fund and receive shares. For these shares you get the picture for a few months to use, then it goes back to the nearest. Finally, you can also buy the picture and provide it with conditions for exhibitions. For example, this could also be done in a similar form with the "pelzchen" of Rubens from the Art History Museum. Sponsors, for example, support the preservation of the image and thus become shareholders of the picture with the corresponding editions of the Kunsthistorisches Museum and the federal government, according to the motto: I belong to a piece of the "Pelzchen". Such a model is already available in the National Library at the Bookpatenschaft. Culture is international, and so it has to be considered, and so it has to be handled, because only the one who is convinced of the true value of art will also promote it and will find new things, because – and I guess you will all add that – there is a great potential for pleasure and experience in the culture. This is part of the basic principles of freedom: Citizens' participation in all political and cultural issues, our sign of living democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5595	Mrs Gehrer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5617	Mr President. High house! I would like to put something right, which is a very personal and particularly important concern to me. It has been spoken here – Mr Oellinger's colleague has not been in the hall now – of the "initiative preparedness". I'd like to say: We have not applied for this initiative, and we have already sent a decree to schools a long time ago that the representatives of this initiative are not invited. I should like to make this clear in this House, which is my concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say something about the question of apprentices. We have succeeded in keeping the number of apprentices stable in recent years. It was always my goal to give about 40 percent of a year of age the education. I really want to say very seriously in this area that we should have this training model – not even in thought! – do not replace it with something else, for example by a professional vocational school or whatever that may be, because this training model is a success model! As a result, many young people in Austria have very good training, and we have the lowest youth unemployment in the European Union. I wish that the teaching, the teaching, would finally be implemented, because this is the chance that young people, who may not be able to teach, will still come to a qualified degree. That is why we should work together. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief consideration of the budget of universities, colleges and research. – It is nice that universities, colleges and research are now united in a large educational budget with the school. It is, I believe, very important that we take even better account of the interfaces, the seams between the various areas of education. The budget for the universities is 29 billion schilling, 14 billion for staff and 15 billion for state expenditure, and I tell you, my Ladies and gentlemen, it's the same as in school: The operation of schools, the operation of universities is secured. We have a very great desire in the personnel sector of universities – that was always a very great desire that at last all staff should be covered in the budget – in addition to 1.4 billion. Of course, we have to ask ourselves: Where can we bring the necessary savings in discretionary expenditure? Ladies and gentlemen – also the opposition groups! If you look back at the programmes of the former Coalition and the current Coalition today, you will see that the need for savings in both programmes is the same, because the budget hole is the same for both programmes! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are therefore faced with the need to save 1.3 billion schilling in this area. The staff is financed, it has a very important focus on research. We have not taken back anything from my budget when it comes to research investment. We know how important it is that we position ourselves in new research areas in Austria, Central Europe, in Europe! We have not taken back anything in the budget in international relations, in all international programmes. We have said, however, that in the case of investments, i.e. in the case of facilities, in case of requests for new facilities, we have to put a few things back this year. However, the total budget for the institutions is still over 500 million schilling, and for these investments the universities have a total budget of exactly 561 804 000 S for the six months ahead of us. I would therefore ask you to understand that there are a number of priorities to be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! It is said again and again that the development is too fast. We just got the UOG in 1993, the last universities are just "kipping" – as it is called in the trade jargon. However, I do not think we can escape the speed of seeing new developments, new challenges. So there is the new challenge of increased autonomy. And I say quite clearly and clearly, such extended autonomy must be accompanied by many framework conditions, many conditions. There is the need for emphasis, the need for responsibility, the need for a new right of service, the need for an evaluation, which also has consequences, and there is the need for competition between universities. In the field of higher education, the development is such that the technical education plan decided by the last government is being fulfilled by us. Six new courses of higher education have been recommended in the last College of Applied Sciences. Further studies will be carried out by the University Council of Applied Sciences, and it is necessary that we set a special focus in this area as well. An own-initiative proposal for the establishment of a Council for Research and Technology Development in Parliament will be available in the near future. I think it is very necessary that we define our position in the field of research together with experts. We have been adopting nuclear energy in the last decades, and that is a good thing, that was true. That was a decision we liked together with the people. We have also adopted genetic technology in large circles, because many people are afraid of this research activity. We must not forget, however, that there are new information and communication technologies in the field of research and that we are focusing on them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is still a subject that always leads to serious controversy: the question of educational funding. I would just like to have an open discussion in this area, a discussion without scruples. However, I say quite clearly that it is not my concern to introduce first tuition fees. I mean, the state is responsible, the taxpayer is responsible for ensuring that young people receive a good education, that young people receive a good first education that young people can also study at a university. But we really have to consider: What does a student cost us at a university? You can ask that! We have worked out these comparisons in the schools, and I also think it necessary to ask: What does a student at this institute cost, and what does he cost at the same institute of another university? I think these comparisons must finally be made! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my opinion, we should have this debate on the financing of education from the point of view of giving young people the best possible training, without any financial charges creating obstacles, but also cost-truth and cost-transparentness. That, I mean, is also very necessary in the field of adult education. Again and again, the degree of adult education in this country depends on how much is in the federal budget. Ladies and gentlemen! They know that especially adult education, lifelong learning is taking place in many areas, in countries, in different national universities, in the wifi, in various other institutions. That is why it is also my concern to highlight what is spent on adult education and on life-long learning in Austria as a whole in the context of the discussion on education funding. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, universities, colleges, research are the sign for the educational field of a country. We certainly have some difficulties to overcome in the budget this year, but I am convinced that this House will be trying to restore the necessary emphasis on the necessary further developments in the next budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5721	Mr Faul spoke on behalf of the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5742	Mr President. Minister! Great respect for your personality, Mrs. Minister, but still the opposition must be reserved to remember other models than those you remember. I would just like to say this at the beginning of my thinking. And a sentence only to you, Mrs Povysil, to your overture: I'm glad not to have to learn history from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon! – Unfortunately, he's not in the hall. We have very cordially acquitted him of his speech in which he has announced that he would like to keep party-political influences out of education policy in the future. We will observe very closely, dear friends of the ÖVP, whether you will succeed in freeing yourself from your party's conservativeism, or whether you will also cement it there. And to Mr Schweitzer, just a harsh remark. When I think about what jovial kind of colleague Schweitzer has implemented measures here, I must say: Mr Schweitzer is expected to have meant the first Karl Schweitzer Private School in Oberwart, but he will only have to establish it – or you have provided it for other functions, Mrs Minister. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Albert-Schweizer-Schule!]] Karl -Schweitzer-Schule. I know the difference between Karl and Albert! I'm serious about the situation, Mrs. Minister. . I would like to repeat what our educational speaker said at the outset in order to consolidate it. The budget estimate 2000 presented by you, the blue-black government, does not contain any innovative approaches to make our education system transparent. There is also a lack of the necessary measures that the international market has called for us to meet the new challenges in the labour markets in order to secure the opportunities for the future for people in Austria. The technology billions announced in the Government Convention – which has already been discussed today – are not taught, and this is in stark contrast to the decision of the EU Council, to which all schools should have access to the Internet by the end of 2001, and that ultimately, and this is the essential thing to train teachers in dealing with the Internet in order to ensure that students are able to deal with the new media in a meaningful and educational manner. How seriously you really mean it, I read yesterday in the Vienna newspaper. Your Secretary-General, Maria Rauch-Kallat, said: The technology billion is a nice keyword. And I am also disappointed by Mr Van der Bellen, who said there was no money for it before, and there will be no one now. Minister! You used so many I-beginnings today, I think, you might say: I net! – and that is too little for me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor does the education budget 2000 – and this is the most important point – take into account the principle of lifelong vocational and life-long learning. In the Court of Auditors, lifelong learning and adult education were the subject of a review in 1999 and, ultimately, the reflections of the last five years have been included. Overall, there is a depressing picture! The expenditure on adult education is only 0.33% of that for initial education in schools, and the objectives formulated by the European Commission are not in any way in line with the Austrian objectives. Who is surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that we are so following developments in the labour market, especially in the management of new technologies, especially since we do not even teach them in time and, through the acquisition of professional knowledge, continue to offer only such a small percentage? Economic education is regarded as an instrument of labour market policy. Higher professional qualifications for workers will also increase the competitiveness of enterprises and thus create much more jobs. Sympathetic for your ministry, Mrs. Minister, is the Court's remark on the guidelines for the award of funding where it is implemented, and this can be broken down on the tongue that, in the absence of openness of the award criteria, "the award of funding for outsiders has not been understood". - More, I don't think you can say. Here the arch of inconsistencies begins, and it continues to move into the field of the state teachers, where the federal government replaces the country's personnel costs, but still does not know how many teachers it gives a salary – and this, although we try to do so in the school boards with minute statistics. The Ministry of Education has overburdened its budget by billions over the last few years, responding to the Court's proposals for detailed planning and precise guidance, according to statistics and controlling, only with ignorance. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: From the Scholten to the Sinowatz, what you criticize!]] Your ministry, Mrs. Federal Minister, simply ignores international trends and recommendations and – with them I come back to the core of my statements – reduce adult education once again – we have heard it today – by about 13 percent. This reduction contradicts the goal of the Government Convention, formulated by your Federal Government itself, that lifelong learning should be a central focus of education policy and that calls for a comprehensive government offensive to coordinate the entire adult and further education sector. This is a blow to the face of the working people in our country who want to achieve higher qualifications by means of further training or by means of the second course of education in order to be able to stand on the labour market in Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5824	The next speaker, Mrs Mag, spoke. Mikl- Leitner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5846	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It has already been said a lot about the necessary savings measures in the last two days. It has already been said a lot on the subject of education, on the subject of science. It may also be that one or the other did not fully understand the need for austerity measures. But I do not want to repeat this now, but rather to emphasize something particularly, that especially the field of education and university research is very important for us in Austria, for our economic location in Austria, especially for the competitiveness of Austria. It's safe: There is always a need for a power act, especially in times of budgetary bottlenecks, to find a means between investment and savings. And this is above all a very delicate undertaking in the scientific field, in the field of education. But I can congratulate our Lady Minister on this successful act of strength. It's all perfectly regulated, and I have to say we didn't expect anything else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can focus on some areas that seem very important to me. An important issue which Mrs Minister mentioned earlier: the topic of vocational education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of technical universities was a decisive step in the tertiary educational landscape of Austria. It was a decisive step because this enabled regionalisation in tertiary education. This regionalization is also extremely positive because it allows students to complete their practice in their regions, in regional establishments, in local establishments. It should also be remembered that, above all, well-established high school courses are increasing the number of enterprises that encourage companies to settle where qualified forces can be found. And this also enables us to keep qualified young people in the regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, it is also so important that the Federal Government stands for the expansion of the technical universities. The Minister has documented this again today. Of the 753 million schilling of the 1999 estimate, the amount of material spent on technical universities rose to 855 million schilling in 2000. And in spite of all the unacknowleds that have already been confirmed by Mrs. Ministers, the funding of all the already approved new high school courses is ensured. What are the great opportunities of the technical colleges? – These opportunities lie in all cases in the field of telecommunications, in the field of modern technology. We have heard a lot about it today. Especially in the field of technology, particularly in the field of telecommunications, there are opportunities for future-oriented jobs. Especially in this area, we in Austria have a lack of qualified innovative forces, which are competent in the field of modern media, in the field of telecommunications. As a woman, it is also important to stress that especially in these areas there are very, very great opportunities for young women and girls, because they look forward to secure and future-oriented jobs there and on the other hand are more compatible with family and profession. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] That is why the Federal Government has also set itself the goal of forcing the field of telecommunications, the new media. A question regarding the vocational colleges, which is certainly still open but which will soon be solved, is the legal anchoring of a student representation. As you know, however, this is already under consideration. As a Lower Austrian, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course very, very important to address the issue of Danube University. I am pleased that the Federal Government, above all our Mrs Minister, acknowledges itself to the Danube University. The Minister has only renewed this confession to the Danube University a few days ago. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is important to invest in the postgraduate field! Therefore, it is also useful and forward-looking and also the goal of the state of Lower Austria to invest 400 to 450 million Schilling in the next few years – a good basis for the future range of teaching and study! I am firmly convinced that the Federal Government too is certainly ready to talk when the study and teaching offer is extended. With the Danube University, we have succeeded in implementing the idea of a privately run university, because at least 50 percent of the funds are spent by own resources. The idea of the new President, Professor Fröhlich, also seems very interesting, namely the idea of dynamic funding. That is, the more successful the Danube University is, the more the public sector is investing. Of course, the model of the Danube University is not one to one to be transferred to the ordinary universities, but I think one approach or another can be taken in all cases. The Minister has referred to the following questions: We also need to stretch to the ceiling in the scientific field! But our programme documents that we stand at the universities, that we stand both for research at the universities and at research sites outside the universities, i.e. for modern new training facilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5936	As the next speaker, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e5957	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! You said earlier in your statement that the staff had been financed. If this is the statement on the educational budget, I may make the claim: Unfortunately, the education budget 2000 guarantees the educational standstill in Austria. Is the staff really funded? Mr Amon has already congratulated you for being able to achieve 2.1 percent more in this budget. If I assume that 2 per cent stand alone for the structural effect, i.e. biennial jumps and advances, and if I assume that there will be a 1.5 per cent increase in salary, I ask you, Mrs Minister: Is this staff budget really funded? In this context, I would like to raise another question: The Government Convention states that you will save 9 000 federal servants by the year 2004, which is clearly not in the field of education. However, in the field of education, alternative measures will be introduced, which will also lead to a sustainable reduction in staff costs. Does this mean, Mrs. Federal Minister, that teachers deserve less in the future? Or does the Swiss premium system apply here: Will there be minus premiums for teachers? I can't imagine that. What really quells me here is the fact that this budgeting can be based on fixed figures – one knows the number of teachers employed, one knows the numbers of students, one knows the results of the salary negotiations – and yet it will certainly, as already had, come back to budget overruns. But I do not want to be left out of this now, which has already been the subject of the Court of Auditors. Only: A comment from you, dear Mrs Federal Minister, has made me a supporter. In fact, at that time you noticed: Well, in a few years, this problem will not be so tight anymore, because then the number of students will fall so that we have to lock the small rural schools anyway. – If reality becomes a reality, Mrs. Minister, I have to take a firm stand against it today, because that is another attack on the weak rural regions. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] The innovative approaches to this budget have already been criticized several times. The so-called school technology billions are scheduled for next year. I think she'd be too late this morning. Because it is very much about the opportunities for our young people. I am delighted how the ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties will act in the vote of the motion for a resolution tabled by the European Parliament, that amendment which involves the adoption of measures in this regard. I fear that I will hear again: by a majority rejected or – to speak to the trumpet of Jericho, the rapporteur, Grossruck – he has already said it this morning: "Don't you stop the shame at all!" I don't think this is a shame, dear colleague. A way out, which is always offered and which is also available, is the so-called school sponsorship. That sounds good, ladies and gentlemen, but I claim that if this is carried on as it has been done so far, this school sponsorship will lead to a two-class school society. In economically strong regions, good funds will be made available, but in economically weak regions there will be less, as it will be as in the USA: "Tell me where you were born, and I'll tell you what you're going to be." - Is that what we want? Is that our goal? Secondly, I would like to express my concern: There are still very significant differences among schools. A study carried out on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, published in the press, shows this very clearly. [[Abg. Dobnigg: (referring that Federal Minister Gehrer with Abg. Dr. Zernatto) Why is the woman's minister not interested in what you say?]] - It's not that important. 93 percent of the respondents agreed to the technical higher schools sponsoring, 69 percent agreed to the AHS, but only one third is interested in sponsoring for the ordinary primary schools. That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be the goal of sponsoring. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is much easier in this context already the Catholic privategymnasia, keyword, Mrs Minister, the European Gymnasium for Good Shepherds; You know it very well. – Well-known, the Catholic privategymnasia, not the non-confessional private schools, where the budget is cut. Are the "good" privategymnasia experiencing the same reduction? - I don't know anything about it. In the gymnasium I have been talking about since 1997 there have been the laptops for the students mentioned so often. At that time I addressed to you, Mrs Minister, a question concerning the financing of these laptops, and you have answered me in writing. "On the part of my department, there is no such action of the 'favourable equipment'. There are neither private schools nor public schools for the purchase of laptops for students with budget resources from my resort." At the time, I looked around a little bit like a newcomer on the Internet and then found a homepage of a renowned computer company, and there this project "Boumgartenberg" was presented in great detail. There I could read: "The project is supported by the EU and accompanied by BMuk scientifically." – If it is promoted by the EU, my knowledge must also include national co-financing. Who was that? To finance it is then stated on this homepage: "Financing – Public support." I leave it to you, ladies and gentlemen, to judge what this answer means. But it shows very clearly how much the willingness you have so often quoted to cooperate with us all. And above all, this example shows me very clearly how it is about the often quoted social balance and equal opportunities. Finally, Mrs Minister, I may send you an invitation. They were not too long ago in this private-gymnasium I mentioned, not for the first time, that also caused large letters in the regional press; it is also good if the minister goes to schools. I can therefore send you an invitation, an invitation from the primary schools and the public high schools of our district: Visit this one too, because the teachers, the students of these "ordinary" public schools would like to discuss with you the problems they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6015	Mrs Bundesminister spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6036	Mr President. High house! It's up to me to make a correct position. I have always made it clear that I am particularly committed to maintaining schools in rural areas. It is necessary to have the folk school in the village. This means life in the village, which means social relations in the village. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have also always made it clear that staff costs will be reduced in the longer term, because first of all, teachers in a certain age group, as they are now, will retire and will follow younger teachers and colleagues, and second, the number of students will fall significantly by 2030. The preservation of public schools, the preservation of the local school, however, is a very important goal for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6075	Next item is the report by Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6136	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before – perhaps want to go Also join the series of congratulators –: The Federal Minister had his birthday yesterday. [[General condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Now you look old!]] A further comment to Mr Pilz, who, as it seems, is not in the plenary session for a longer period of time. So it will be on Wednesday, 17th. May, be. We also have plenary, and Mr Pilz will not be there either, because he will be taking part in a panel discussion in Graz, on the subject of "Professional standards for politicians". To that, I would say, is also the presence in plenary. Two hours of travel to Graz, two hours of return, two hours of panel discussion – very much time, Mr. Pilz, will not be left for this plenary day. I could imagine that you are still discussing this in your club; Mrs Glavischnig will certainly have her explanations for it, just as she makes her comments on other cuts. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Back to the budget debate, back to education, science and culture. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a fundamental right to education. The State must fulfil its education mission. Measures I am talking about today find different budgetary precipitation. Our group has generally committed itself to the protection of the weak, and weak are also those, teachers and students who are affected by violence in school. In Austria, every third criminal is under 21 years old. In Germany, violent young people who attack teachers and pupils repeatedly can already be excluded from schools, in Austria it is similar. There is also the possibility that these students will be "congregated" in special classes. There are then two teachers in a class, one for the violent students, one who is observing these students, and one who teaches. I think it is particularly important, even though I am thinking of the accident in Littleton that happened just a year ago – a school massager who has fallen victim to 15 people – that we over-fragmentally install a working group and superior measures against violence in the school. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this context, I am at all convinced that attractive school offers also divert a little from the point of view of violence. And I am particularly concerned about this project, "Young Enterprise Switzerland", and I support a similar initiative based on this model for the AHS upper level in Austria. According to this initiative, young people run real mini companies for a school year. This will provide young people with insight into economic processes and their skills. Through this learning by doing, students also know much better in the question of choice of profession, where their own skills, their own inclinations lie. Social competence, team capacity and the courage to self-employment are also promoted. It is obvious that approximately 20 percent of the projects of these mini-enterprises will continue to be carried out after the school year. Ladies and gentlemen! You have already heard it from this point of view. As far as education is concerned, the co-existence of public and private educational institutions is a concern to me and especially to the co-existence of public and private universities. In this context, there is already an accreditation board that was planning to accredited the first private universities before the summer. I think this is a good idea and I believe that this is happening before the summer. It would also be possible to get to the stock exchange for the first private universities. Let's stay at the universities. I see specific savings opportunities especially at the Danube University Krems. Donau University is like a barrel without a floor for me. There are study fees paid by the students. There are sponsoring funds on the part of private and also close-to-state institutions: keyword OMC, keyword Austrian lottery company. Then the country of Lower Austria pays a considerable amount and it pays the federal government 52 million schilling each year. Just two years ago, the then Minister of Science A head of state Pröll is developing a plan for a total of three years, i.e. this plan ends in 2001. And with regard to the – as far as I can assess – lean scientific output of the almost 40 scientific staff, I consider a rethinking of the further grants from tax resources for the Danube University appropriate. It is on every schilling, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I am in favour of the fact that we do not make good money any more before an evaluation of the modest scientific output has been carried out. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition to the public education contract, it is important to create tax incentives in budgetary terms so that educational institutions can best organise their future in cooperation with the economy. We've heard about it today. In the fields of education, university, art and culture, and in particular in the protection of monuments, I am concerned about the continuous deductibility of sponsoring services. The state has to create the framework conditions for art and culture. My vision for the future in this field is that the arts and culture sector in the market economy – as well as other industries – is mainly organized by itself. This means, for me, a widespread abolition of state subsidies in the arts and culture sector and the self-responsible organisation of sponsors as well as, as I have said, the greatest possible tax reliefs. In this context, I think it is important that we rethink all state subsidies in this area, including legal obligations – and I am thinking as Pars pro toto, for example, of the Salzburg Festival and of similar so-called "holy cows". I am of course clear about the importance, for example, of the Salzburg Festival for Tourism, but I am convinced that economic considerations can also be taken into account at the Salzburg Festival. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not for me to see why the "small" taxpayer, who won't make a card for the Salzburg Festival for his life, has to make his contribution year after year with his tax money. Summary: As our Minister of Finance, Grasser, also school, including university, has to make a contribution to the goal of saving, and I am convinced that the above approaches will play an essential role in this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6216	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Niederwieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6246	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I know we're still with you a little bit in the clinic who should be the opposition here. But at some point you will notice that the role of the government is another, and we will always be better in the role of opposition. That was partly an opposition speech now, because the difficulties, Mrs Paházy, you mentioned here, will not have so much with us with Mr Pröll and others. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have to start with a serious question to ask you. They mentioned that adult education is not only financed by the Ministry of Education. This is, of course, completely correct, and that would be far too little, because there are other departments and more. However, you, Mrs Bundesminister, referred to the people's universities and also the wifis in this list of adult education institutions by chance or not by chance – and this would be important to know – but you did not mention a large educational institution in the listing of the main financiers of adult education, namely the professional funding institutions. It should be noted that this may be related to a request I have made to you in the Budget Committee, and with the pressure of your opposition partner to reduce the workers' chamber envelope from 0.5 to 0.3 percent. If this happens when you submit to your coalition partner on this point, then you will no longer have to mention the professional promotion institutions, because then there will no longer be this source of funding of workers for adult vocational education. 700 million schilling a year, Mr Schöggl, are about those who are directly going back to the continuing training of workers. There won't be any more. So it would be interesting to know that. It is not true that this question of the Chamber of Labour is not also your question, as you answered me in the Committee on Budgets, because this is about means of adult education. And that, I think, is also a question that the Minister for Education will have to decide. Let me make an amendment to the Niederwieser amendment to the science budget. He's distributed, you've read him. I'm allowed to present the request to you in its essential points. It aims at the pre-accession of the budget to the 1999 approaches in important research and science areas. It is about the technical colleges who should get the money provided in the budget they need to be able to implement this expansion plan. It is about facilities and expenses at the universities of the arts, at the general universities, it is about BIG payments, it is about information technologies. We do not want anything but about 1.5 billion schilling, which was available for universities and research in 1999 but which is no longer foreseen in this budget. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Mikl- Leitner said earlier that if there is no more money, we must be satisfied with what is planned here. She'd be right, but the question is: What is the point, then, when we are discussing the budget, is that in a press conference we are already free to distribute extra 10 billion schilling, which we claim to be coming in. We believe that this budget in a very crucial point of revenue, namely when selling the fourth mobile license, is a false picture that is being played with false cards here in the revenue. 4 billion schillings are estimated, the transport minister himself expects between 10 and 20 billion schillings. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, give the technical colleges, give the universities the security they need so that they can budget, if even your own minister says: I'll have the money, I'll plan it now, I'll put it in the west railway! This is a political decision where this money will come from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] Mr Grollisch! That's a political decision! You know where the money comes from, and you know that at least there will be more than this 4 billion schilling. We propose 1.5 billion schilling directly and in the form of a genuine budget for technical universities, for research, for investments in universities. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: And who should pay it?]] And if you want to give the universities the security to know what budget they can have this year to know if they will have the money for heating in December, then you agree to this request. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Make a cover proposal!]] Mr Schöggl! They have said in the Committee on Budgets that more revenue will come. Then use here the 10 billion schilling that will result from surplus revenue, and do not say as a science politician: There's no more money there. What are we gonna do?- Oh, my God! – Especially on the previous day of the Transport Ministers in a press conference said: Of course I'll have more money, and of course I'll spend it. But I will not spend it on research, and I will not spend it on science. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: We will have to spend it on budget recovery!]] We should not like this, ladies and gentlemen. We could show that it is a common concern for us to do something for research, for science, for the development of this country and for the youth of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6319	I announce that the request from Mr Niederwieser and Mr Comrades, as just explained in his key points, has also been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6417	Mr Grossruck, the next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6438	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you look at the government programme – and I recommend it to do more – you can find out what educational, sports, scientific and research initiatives the Federal Government wants to develop. The Preamble reads: "A high-quality and diverse range of education, strengthening lifelong learning and innovation in research and development create better opportunities for life and work for everyone and strengthen Austria's economic location. It is particularly important to ensure the quality and the financial framework and to further develop educational opportunities with forward-looking content. The internationalisation and forcing of research and teaching are central concerns, a technology offensive is necessary." So if we are discussing the educational budget, we should do it from this point of view. We all know we have budget problems. We all know that we cannot solve the budget problems by absorbing more debt by spending more, but that we first have to find a solution to these problems as a housework task, in order to have money for new challenges. I am convinced that, in view of the stressed budgetary situation, our Minister of State will also give priority to the priorities, and that neither education nor research, nor education, nor other areas will be lacking in her area, because she has provided quality in the education system with scarce resources in the past, and I am convinced that she will continue to create excellent quality in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to draw some points from this government programme, which says: "Technology billions for a technology offensive at schools. Modern educational arrangements are necessary for a new school culture – development and testing involving all school partners (teachers, pupils, parents). Promotion of excellence and special skills through teacher education, learning culture and cooperation with tertiary educational institutions." There is still a lot of points to be read; I would like to refer to the three points mentioned. "Modern educational agreements are necessary for a new school culture." . I give you the right, Mrs Minister, to underline what is in the government programme. The Christian Teachers' Association of Upper Austria held its General Assembly on Tuesday this week and has also focused on this subject. Of course, it has already been stressed that there are also responsibilities in the school sector, that it is over with the anti-authoritarian education or the perhaps much-proclaimed laisser-fair-style, that rather an education is necessary to partnership, to responsibility, to self-responsibility, not the attitude as it may represent old educational and educational content: We leave, we leave, we let, patience, we let go, and we don't intervene! It is necessary to intervene in particular with our younger children and students. For the Christian Teachers' Association, prevention is first and foremost, and he proposes: Recognize and use the strengths of the students, offer challenges and implement responsibly, allow forward-looking interventions, experience-educated approaches, training small groups, use of additional value units for educational promotions and so on. And if all of this is of no use, it is for educational contracts, for the preventive exclusion at school events and so on. This too must be possible and must be discussed, ladies and gentlemen. We don't have any of it today if we think our students should do whatever they want. They won't come along in life either. We stand by the fact that we also bring our children and young people to school – and school can never replace the parent's educational work, but always complement it – to be members of our society who are a partner, who are responsible for their own. The second is the promotion of excellence. We also confess to that. We do not think of any educational brush haircut, one-to-one school or a golf grass to be offered educationally here. We want the flower meadow in pedagogy, where talents can unfold, where gifts are promoted and where the weak are helped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner spoke earlier about the "Posaunen von Jericho". I called in in the morning: "Stop the smears!", because every time a socialist speaker comes out as a first speaker, he regrets and demonstrates that especially the socially needy and the weak in incomes of this government will fall through the rust. – The opposite is the case, ladies and gentlemen: If we are not prepared to reorganise the budget, to put appropriate figures on the table, black numbers, then we will no longer be able to afford the red figures of the past, and then above all those people will fall through the rust you are now so saddening, namely the social weak. It is precisely because it is necessary to do something for the socially weak that we need to reform the budget. They say that the socially weak and the needy are our members, for which we are committed. Well then I wonder how this fits together if you send the red "bet-moons" with the cash desk straight to the social weak that you represent to ask for party donations. That can't be true! Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the last point because the light is already flashing, namely to the educational content. The school is not an experimental field, as it might have been. I recall the teaching of quantities with which the students have been painted: You have to learn that and learn that! Teachers have also had to learn this. And now it turns out that the teaching of quantities was not necessarily what came out in the 1970s as the high school of new mathematics. But I think some of the SPÖ-Bundes Party's cashiers have learned quantity teaching. The financial debacle in the cash register can only be due to the fact that perhaps in school not normal algebra and mathematics have been taught, but quantity teaching, according to the motto: If in the party case is a minus of 200 million schillings and I take out a partial amount of 200 for the election campaign, then I have to return a cut of 400 million so that nothing is inside. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] This is the teaching of the number of socialists. We don't want to start with this, ladies and gentlemen. We want to give our students a decent training! This training is best hands with our Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrin. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have our support. We, the coalition, will work to achieve the objectives set out in the government programme. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Finally, let me make a happy statement, Mrs Federal Minister. You've got a birthday when I'm properly informed. Our spokespersons, Werner Amon, Gertrude Brinek and Andrea Wolfmayr want to bring you a little attention. Where are they with the bouquet of flowers? - There they are! [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Deputies Amon, Dr. Brinek and Dr. Wolfmayr present a bouquet of flowers to the Federal Minister Gehrer, who is sitting on the government bank.]] We congratulate you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister! This is true commitment for Austria to be here in Parliament even on the birthday!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6574	I agree with the best wishes and at the same time call on the next speaker, Mr Dr Antoni, to begin with his speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6609	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, I cannot respond to Mr Grossruck's speech – which would be too narrow on my speaking time – except in the last sentence: Mrs. Federal Minister! I should also like to congratulate you on our birthday. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! For an ever-increasing number of students, the study is not just a field of life, but they are forced to start their studies in a wider range, because they must also be active. That is, they have to get out of the field of tension of profession and study. In front of this, I would like to say, a rather gratifying background of an expansion of education over the last decades has developed a very complex interweaving of social circumstances, of life plans and of different professional goals among students. I believe that this complexity can no longer be reconciled with a uniform study concept, because account must be taken in particular of the changes in the labour market which require ever-increasing practical experience and thus also influence the study behaviour of many young and of course older students at universities. Higher education policy must also adapt to this development. Unfortunately, I hardly find any approaches to this in the government programme. The 1998 Social Survey found that there were 60 percent of students in employment, thus nearly two thirds of students at the universities worked next to their studies in the winter semester of 1997/98. From these figures it can be seen that a radical change is under way among students, and this change will also result in social policy – i.e., in other areas of life such as work, leisure, living and culture. However, this change is also an expression of the fact that a large number of citizens in Austria are quite accepting the concept of lifelong and qualification-enhancing learning. In addition to extending the duration of the study, the impact we have to accept is also the increasing importance of part-time studies as an alternative. The causes and reasons that lead to part-time studies are so important that they cannot be passed by reference to the standard or even seen as individual misbehavior. It is necessary to accept the need for professional activity and to change the necessary framework conditions. It should be possible to complete a full-time study, but for those who, because of professional practice at work – because they do not want to miss it and can – or because of care obligations for children, elderly people or even disabled persons, or for other reasons, are limited in their time, to offer the opportunity to complete part-time studies. In principle, I therefore believe that the form of study is so flexible, so permeable, that both the part and the other part is accepted, but also a change between full-time and part-time studies will be possible. I therefore believe that it is necessary, Mrs Bundesminister, to continue working on this concept in your home – a working group on part-time studies already exists – and that there will ultimately be an Austrian high school policy concept for both claims – part-time and full-time studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6666	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6688	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to start by saying that, from this point of view, I should like to express my personal respect for the fact that, despite the personally defaming and loathsome remarks made by the Greens, he finally stretched out his hand and invited him to cooperate. That is a basic democratic attitude, and I am pleased! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since we are also talking about culture in this debate, I would like to tell you about an experience that made me very concerned last night. It was a lukewarm evening at the Town Hall Square, the fifth symphony of Mahler under the direction of Zubin Mehta was played – an uplifting event until the professional demonstrators appeared and disturbed this cultural pleasure with its demonstration noise, with its "resistance" noise, with the loud call to drive the government out of office. Foreign guests showed themselves very brutal, and the conductor was also very evocative. From this point of view, I am looking for the left half of the empire, the camp that has called these forces on the street to train in cultural matters, so that such events do not repeat themselves – in the sense of culture, as ambassadors of reconciliation and peace, and not the fractionation of cultural events. Finally, these activities fall back on you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on the subject of education and science. What is the objective of science and education policy? – The goal must be to develop self-confidence and free, responsible young people from ideological suffrages. These young people must be equipped with the necessary armor to successfully meet the demands of society and economy and contribute to the further development of our society. This, Mrs Minister, is also part of recognizing the need and not of producing beyond the needs: Enlightenment and preparation for the future challenges of the economy and society are in need. I can quote from the 1999 Focus Report on Austrian Research Strategy, Phase 1. It shall bring the following action: However, large parts of the youth leave the school system without having acquired any basic scientific and technological culture that they will need for their choice of study and future professional life in the knowledge society. – See also linkage of policy areas. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What is the cause of this complaint? – The reason for this is the situation of the widest teacher groups at the time, which is a technologically and industrially hostile ideology. Minister! They will need action to bring about a technology-friendly attitude in teaching in order to be able to oppose this complaint and to create an appropriate technology-friendly climate at our schools. Only then will the modern measures for an information policy, for the introduction of telecommunications in the broadest circle and for a technology-oriented future of Austria be able to be truly grasped and implemented. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are also savings, and there are certainly opportunities to do so. From this point of view, I have already brought the example that schools could be put together quite a few times. In my home town there are still two primary schools and two public schools, housed in the same house, with two directors, with two administrations. I think there would be a corresponding potential for savings in the administration, in the school administration. It would also be important to control the resources acquired and their use within the framework of the partial right and to restore to schools the costs to be spent on the use of infrastructure. It would also be important to develop an operating cost-saving concept through facility management, i.e. through an optimal operation of the objects used by the school, buildings et cetera. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, it is important for us liberals to depoliticize the headmasters' occupations consistently, because it can only apply that the best suitable person can come to the appropriate position – for the benefit of our students and for the benefit of our youth. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A few words on science: Despite Sparens, Mrs Minister, the scientific budget has been kept almost constant. This is an achievement for science, for universities, for the studying youth and thus for the whole of Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Despite all the austerity measures, however, it is necessary to ensure that general punctual repairs can be carried out. It is unbearable, for example, that water breaks occur in buildings of the WU and that computers must be covered to protect them from water damage. Or another example: Participation in EU projects must be ensured. However, this appears to be partially at stake. That's what you have to say. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! It is very important that students find the possibilities and the conditions for completing their studies in general. As long as there are problems with appointments and with the equipment of hearing and practice rooms, for us the introduction of study fees cannot be an issue. Universities should be and must be lively centres of science and research, as well as equal centres of teaching and as such service centres for students and for young people willing to learn. Finally, a word for the large-scale research project AUSTRON. Minister! We liberals are committed to the establishment of a large research institution of European importance in Austria. That would be good for the reputation of our country, that would be good for the further development of science, and this would be good for the scientific, economic and research location Austria. I hope that funding can be secured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The reorganisation of the ministries in the Federal Ministry Act was and is a forward-looking step, through the introduction of this Ministry of Education. It will be up to us, the government and the coalition to use these opportunities – for the benefit of the Republic of Austria, for the benefit of the students and for the benefit of our economic location. Finally, I also offer my personal congratulations for my birthday.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6806	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6827	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Insurance, insecurity, insecurity! This is what sounds like when one has talked with university staff, with professors, with teachers and with assistants at universities in recent months. One is afraid, one does not know exactly how universities, research and teaching continue in the future. If the laboratories can no longer be renewed and they have to be given up to decay, where will the best-trained young generation, so urgently needed by the economy, come from? – This is what many university professors are asking. I quote here with your permission, Mr President, Professor of the University of Vienna, Dr. Leopold March, Rector of the University of Vienna for Soil Culture. He asks himself whether the unis are divided to death, and writes: The cuts in the current budget year for Austrian universities cut investment by two thirds, i.e. one billion schilling. In principle, this does not comply with the constant budgetary and political priority for education and science. In concrete terms, this means that universities will not be able to keep their equipment up-to-date. – So far as Rector University Professor Dr. March. If the actions of the Fund to promote scientific research on the reduction of research funds are loud and insurmountable, this is extremely serious. Furthermore, if all institutes have 20 percent less money available for books and magazines in Innsbruck, this is also serious, because without book there is less research and without magazine even less knowledge. Mrs. Minister! The former Minister of Science Caspar One has commissioned a White Paper to support women in research above all. I hope you continue with this project that you continue to promote women's research, promote women's research and promote women's at universities, so that what is really exemplary at universities continues to exist, namely that around half of the students are female. In the future, this will also be reflected by the professors, the teachers and teachers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also hope that the measures already taken will continue. In this context, I remember the Firnberg scholarships. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is necessary to save, then the teaching will be done against research. However, this budget is clear: There's a saving in research. This also affects the teaching of time. Research has an influence on teaching, but the teaching in the system of mass university does not have such a great influence on research. If, for example, 1 400 psychology students in Innsbruck, of which more than 1,000 actually take exams, only ten university teachers – teachers also belong to them – are available, then this highest number of students who fall on a professor is simply too high. You just need to calculate that. Since, I believe, it is no longer possible to carry out an appropriate teaching – and no research at all. What I liked yesterday was a press release by the Austrian Trade Union. In it the call for tuition fees became loud again. Every year, this news appears again, just like the monster of Loch Ness. I am glad that today – I have understood you – you know that education – also the highest education – will continue to be free to use for free. That's good for Austria, that's good for our youth, that's good for our economy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In our country one can in principle express a great compliment to universities because they have managed the rapid upheavals and changes excellently. 30 years ago, only a quarter of the students at the universities were recorded, now there are four times as many. The fact that this was so well handled that truly well-trained people, students, academics and academics leave universities, go abroad and are highly valued workers is an important and necessary development. These academics or former students are indeed ambassadors of our country. Finally, I would like to say the following: I was very pleased – and I am proud of the rector of the University of Innsbruck, Professor Hans Moser – that Professor Moser has prohibited the celebration of the so-called Feast Academy of Europe being organized on university grounds because he is afraid of the reputation for the reputation of the university. That was a courageous step. I would also like to thank Professor Moser from this point of view for this step. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Fear of the local demonstrators!]] Mr. Wissens Spokesman Dr. Graf! If this festival has now taken place at the Congress Hall in Innsbruck and the newly elected mayor Herwig van Staa has promised to participate in a discussion round – in addition to Dr. Otto Scrinzi, who will also be on the podium – I find this problematic and worrying as Innsbrucker. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We live in a democracy!]] [[Discouragement by representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A MP out of service! And his son-in-law is the Voggenhuber!]] I would like the mayor of Innsbruck, the European politician of Innsbruck, to take back this commitment and not take part in this event!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6928	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e6949	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the final remarks, a sad quote follows: "The University of Vienna understands the concern of the international public about the government participation of a party whose representatives in the past have not clearly distanced themselves from the terror of National Socialism." - Quote. The University of Vienna made this statement on 9 July. March and depended on a reason I save myself and you. Mrs. Federal Minister! I ask you in advance: Have you responded to this "place for trust" as it is called? If so, how? – I would very much ask you, together with us, to dissociate with the entire Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But there are also better examples, ladies and gentlemen. I have the letter of an Austrian scientist who expressed himself at an invitation to an international urologist congress in a letter to all the 1,500 invited who are looking for the same. This scientist, who is far from a close proximity to a political party – also far away from our party – and one of the few of the rank and names in Austrian medical science, writes in this letter, which I inform you of invariably, the following – I quote –: Ladies and gentlemen! You have seen about the political change in Austria on television or read in the newspapers. This country was strongly criticized for its new government, which consists of a coalition between the conservatives and the liberals under Jörg Haider. Since we feel that in your country the facts are very strongly reflected, it is a concern to report on the situation and to remain objective. Now, let's say: Jörg Haider operated a good opposition policy. The statements you heard from him have been torn from the context. Although it belongs to the right wing and as well as other politicians is populist, it is neither Nazi nor Fascist, neither antisemit nor racist. However, the FPÖ is a democratic party in many cities and countries and is represented in our administration. The SPÖ was in power for 30 years. She became corrupt and was involved in many scandals that were revealed and published. In general, the FPÖ was not elected because the Austrian fascists are, but because a political change was wanted. And so on, and so on. End of quote. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A letter to 1,500 medical scientists, which is at least an approach to how Austrians, who have kept an objective picture, react to the sanctions. Mrs. Federal Minister! In today's "scientific damage" you have reported that you have mentioned the following sanctions in the scientific field: "Cancel within projects, problems in events and visits, disability of cooperations and students, rejection of honors and resolutions". Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you to respond as exemplaryly as your colleague in the government, State Secretary Franz Morak. Yesterday, in a letter to the French Minister of Culture, he protested that the Austrian Archaeological Institute was invited by a congress in France. He's very impressive. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to act in this field of science. It can't be that science is taking on unreflected messages without questioning them for its part. It is the task of science to seek the truth and not to give forward-looking news, whose political reasoning is manifestly and easily understandable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In short, on the subject of education policy. Mr Riepl said: The students are in the centre of the schools. Apart from his other statements, we are supporting this statement. The fact that teachers are required to do so and that they are in partnership with parents and students in school is a matter of course. But we should not lose sight of the students as the centre of our efforts in education policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! In the context of the budgetary negotiations, as you know, the Minister of Finance also discussed the variant of whether teachers could be expected to make a one hour more educational commitment as a contribution to solidarity – only one hour more in teaching commitment! Ladies and gentlemen! This would mean a budget saving of about 2.2 billion schilling. This contribution of solidarity must be requested. We are convinced that we find understanding of this in the teachers' minds if we are sufficiently aware of the drama of the situation. In the requests made by Mr Niederweiser, Mr Ex-Minister Only with and does not represent the application itself – in the field of adult education, universities of arts et cetera are certainly called figures that you, Mrs. Federal Minister, but also the Minister of Finance, would probably love to fulfill. But let's be honest: The revenue of our children will not be sufficient to compensate for the burden on our public debt. Do you really want to keep moving around in the money bags of your, my, our anchors? We ask you to stay realistic! And if you make such demands, then try to discuss the second side, the cover. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! On behalf of my group, I should like to thank you once again for your birthday.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7079	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7101	Mr President. Minister! High house! I want to deal with just a few things after a lot has already been said to the universities and the sciences. The cuts in the plant sector have already been said: in the title of 1/14203, plants in the university sector, a reduction of 1.335 billion to 450 million schilling; in the approach 1/14303 at the universities of the arts, a reduction of 70 million to 42 million schilling. They have harvested one-bright scepticism for these cuts. The decision of the rectors' conference was unanimous. The rectors said: We are very concerned whether the teaching company can be maintained in the coming winter semester. The rector of the University of Vienna, Georg Winckler, has said that he has the impression that in Austria one is too little concerned with education and science. The Rector of the Technical University of Vienna, Peter Skalicky, said: Reductions are not a university policy, which brings together the last accountant. Now one could say that these are some lobbyists, but "someone" are not the mentioned gentlemen! Or: The president of the Christian Trade Unions and ÖGB Vice-President Fritz Neugebauer says: The draft budget is equivalent to an unscrupulously written exercise, without commitment and without accents. The thread of action means saving, the result is short. As a result of the intention to sell the family silver, workers are faced with the conclusion of having to contribute to the reorganisation of the budget through unilateral burdens. Neugebauer also says: It is a scandal to leave billions of tax debts behind and, at the same time, to dictate a policy of belt narrowing. - Quote. Mr Neugebauer knows what I mean, what he's talking about, and he's not real-life either! He is not close to the Socialist Group either. So you could already comment a little critically. The field of research is also particularly affected. The halving of investment funds by more than 600 million schillings, of which half is research-relevant, is striking. You have said that you want to increase the research rate to 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product by 2005. The EU Commission is now saying that research in Europe is in an alarming situation. The Japanese spend about 2.9 percent of the gross domestic product on research, the US 2.7 percent – the EU on average only 1.9 percent, and Austria even 1.6 percent! . I therefore ask you how you want to achieve the 2.5 percent increase in these cuts by 2005. The fund is particularly drastic to promote scientific research, whose President Arnold Schmidt said: That's absolutely sad! The funds for the FWF, which amounted to 610 million schilling, are reduced by 220 million schilling. This is a significant increase in the funding for the research fund of the industrial economy, which last year amounted to 632 million schillings and made up 500 million schillings, which still account for 150 million schillings from the Ministry of Infrastructure's discretion. – That’s unfair, that’s imbalance, that’s classic client policy! This is a disadvantage to the fund for the promotion of scientific research. A comment on the technical colleges. We have a boom of applications at the technical colleges. In addition to the approximately 15 applications that would like to begin in the autumn of this year, around 40 applications are available. Of these 15 applications, 10 are actually ready for approval and are subject to authorisation. They voted in favour of the old high school development plan in the past government, but now there is no financial coverage for these twelve programmes. Therefore, please explain how the technical colleges are to continue. In this context, I would like to ask another question: Mr Kurt Sohm – I don't know this gentleman, I don't know where he belongs politically. I just noticed a statement from him. He said that from 2001 onwards there would also be vocational education courses for social professions. In this way women are also more interested in this form of training, Sohm. Since I assume that you have a relatively clear awareness about this, and I have never heard anything else from you, I wonder: What anti-female spirit is there and how much is there in the high school board? Finally, Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to thank you for your clear statements that you made in a newspaper interview – I think it was in the "profile" or in the "press", I do not know exactly – namely: I turn to the idea of good use here. I thought it wrong to evaluate any knowledge for immediate feasibility in economic life. It must also be possible to have smaller faculties with special offers. Furthermore, you have also expressed yourself in a clear way against tuition fees, and I would like to pay this respect and recognition. I hope that this little expression of respect in this government coalition will not harm you. I know how hard you as a rationalist you are – you were always one, I want to say – in this sometimes "dump" coalition. Keep going the way you've gone so far!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7187	The next speaker is Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7208	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Even if I am later to miss the speaking time, as a teacher and school supervisor, I will not be able to reject Mr Grossruck's pedagogical greetings. I'm glad that he doesn't belong to our profession, but he's still worried that maybe once, in our school system, he should change a lot as mayor and schoolkeeper could watch over the schools. But I am convinced that the Minister of State approves of the courage of his school inspectors to prevent this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the debate with enthusiasm, I have followed two contrary statements to the Danube University, namely the praise of Mr Mikl- Leitner for the university in Krems, which has been emancipated by a stepchild, on the one hand, and the scepticism expressed by Mrs Papházy in connection with this university. It will be your job to present to Mrs. Federal Minister, in this of your government coalition, the importance of the Danube University. I have read with enthusiasm in the media and in an APA broadcast that the Danube University is already the top of the educational pyramid in the country. If so, then now the Danube University should also be a full university. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, don't! That doesn't have to be at all!]] However, according to my knowledge, it is still a postgraduate institution. Mrs. Federal Minister! But you have also – I would be interested in this – pledged further support millions to Mr. Landesbührer. 52 million schillings are already coming from the federal government, and They will add something to the country's promotions. As a Lower Austrian, I am pleased with your statement because I know exactly what importance this research site has for the economy in our area. There is also a letter from you, Mrs. Minister, to the Maturants, in which you explain which studies should not actually be chosen. However, they also write that there are very great opportunities, especially in the field of information and communication technology. I would like to stress these statements and, at the same time, point out that this Danube University has enormous resources. This division could take over and could not only create jobs for young people, but – which is even more essential – also boost our economy. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We from the opposition party will certainly observe closely how far these will be respected your concessions. One last: It has already been quoted by Deputies Wurm as saying by the Rector of the University of Soil Culture. I can only agree with his opinion, because the rector of the University of Soil Culture has made these frightening statements, among other things, because he knows the state of his experimental facility in Großenzersdorf. I know this outside space very well, too. In the course of the Committee's debate, I made a brief request in writing, but the situation is very simple in the answer: It is only noted that the operation is secured and that the investment is resettled. But if you look slightly more closely behind these walls and talk to the staff there, you will find out about them that the study operation is already at risk. There is already a bottleneck in the most primitive purchases. There is a lack of fertilizer procurement, for example, and there are problems in the procurement of sprays. And that's really the main condition in an experimental facility that you can continue training young people there in the latest technology. There are also already savings in terms of excursions and savings in property and consumption expenditure. And the long-needed renewal of the old laboratory facilities cannot take place because the investments are being resettled. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I believe that there is also a quick response in the interest of all students, otherwise it could happen that these students lose their own study periods and ultimately suffer enormous financial damage. Finally, I would also like to quote Professor Leopold March, who says: "We have to take qualitative and quantitative steps forward this year, although Austria already has the lowest academic rate of all industrialized countries. Today's failures will have many years of consequences." I hope, Madam Minister, that you will not allow this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7251	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7272	Mr President. High house! Mrs Gehrer, I do not, of course, agree to wish you all the best for your birthday! Perhaps this is even more happening with a shot at heart because it comes from another group. You always have to be careful when one of your own friends is overly congratulated for one's birthday, because of course there can be – you know – one or the other behind-thinking. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We are not social democrats!]] But I don't want to sow any distrust there, probably everything's okay anyway – across the political groups. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We are not social democrats!]] Now on the statements concerning the "Salzburger Festspiele". It has already been discussed at this point about the "old cultural steamer", the image that Mr. State Secretary Morak put into play when he meant that we are primarily promoting the "old cultural steamers". – And then the “Salzburger Festspiele” were quoted as the institution that ultimately experienced the least cuts. Of course we know the difficulties of the "Salzburger Festspiele", but at the same time I tell you the following: Of course, something true about the fact that you – Morak has the coordination competence, but you have also been called for as a cultural politician in a sense – was particularly careful and reticent. As far as the problems of the MAK budget are concerned, I would ask you to comment here in the House. However, I would also like to point out that the exhibition "Geymüller-Schlössel", the only publicly accessible summer building with original, true Biedermeier and Empire facilities, has to be closed up until further notice or the exhibitions have to be cancelled there and there are problems in buying contemporary art because you simply have budgetary problems. This gives me to think: on the one hand, the "Salzburger Festspiele", which also have problems, but which are treated very carefully, and on the other hand, for example, the MAK. Last point: Theme "Museum quarter". – Again and again we hear from the area "Museum quarter" that there are problems there, such as an explosion of operating costs. It is precisely the question of how to deal with "public-netbase" and all other very forward-looking cultural and art groups. There are now discussions about the high operating costs, for which there have been different statements, papers, which have also been published in a magazine. I would ask you now to inform us about this in the context of this debate. Perhaps we could also consider – but this request should be addressed to the Committee on Culture and Culture – to invite these groups to the Committee on Culture, perhaps also Mr Waldner, and to carry out a small hearing there on the situation in the "Museum Quarter" so that we can better orient. After all, it is enough to hear only papers and magazine reports, and this opinion and that counter-conception and discussion about them. I believe that the "Museum Square" is an important example of this and that this is really something that needs to be taken care of. I would therefore ask you to comment on this too.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7326	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7348	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on Mr. Rada's ideas regarding the Grossenzersdorf test site at the University of Soil Culture: Mr President, I should like to thank They say there's a danger to the operation. I think there are a lot more crucial fundamental questions, especially as regards Großenzersdorf, and there is also the focus on research policy. For years there has been an attempt to establish a research centre for organic farming, particularly in the field of animal husbandry. This attempt to carry out research for organic farming is torpeded by budgetary non-dotting. I think this is a serious problem. The problem is not to be able to buy fertilizers and sprays for the test product. They also see the problem of education policy and research policy. The question is: What are the objectives of research in Austria? Mrs. Federal Minister! It makes a significant difference whether we spend a few million on genetic risk research or for future innovations such as research in organic farming. That is, I think, an essential point. I would now like to address a more general point of view on the issue of Austrian education and science policy. Mrs. Federal Minister! What is the ultimate guiding principle? I have tried to filter out from your remarks, from your previous speeches and from the government statement, which is actually the guiding principle in the field of education, where it is supposed to go. I have also followed closely what the various speakers of the coalition parties have given of themselves here. Ladies and gentlemen! Is this new model or reform model an egalitarian or elitist model? This is a fundamental question, because this is a social policy change, and here, ladies and gentlemen, I must say: It's clear what your concept is. They are talking about the need for a new path, a path from the culture of demand to a culture of responsibility, and you are clarifying this with two lapidar remarks, which read as follows: What can I do myself, and where can I help myself? That is precisely a reduction in the social responsibility of education policy. It's not about asking: What can I do myself, what can I do myself? – this is necessary and is never questioned – but it concerns the question of education policy: How can we promote solidarity, how can we promote Community action, common objectives in the field of education and research in Austria, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's no clear statement from you. There is no significant statement from you about structural reforms which correspond to this model of greater solidarity in society. In the field of training, there should be a common education for young people, more individual and also Community-oriented basic training. Finally, the basic question is how far democratisation is an issue in your education and research policy, because ultimately, the results of education policy and research policy are to all benefit. If we pursue cultural policy, it can only mean trying to improve the social level, the level of discussion and the level of democracy in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The colleagues of the Freedom Party have very clear concepts: Private universities – no question, and the way to the stock exchange. – This is a way, ladies and gentlemen, that takes away from the foundation of a broad Austrian education and research policy. This will lead to elitist forms, to a reconciliation of holistic approaches. And it also surprises me very much that You really believe that this is a new approach. And Mr Schweitzer's arguments are even curious when he says that the schools should already work in order for the economy. I think this is very worrying, Mr Schweitzer. Your model of schooling and school design, Mrs. Federal Minister – and with this I am referring to a comment you made here today – is quite questionable for me. They have found that teachers are the most important part of the education system. To this end, I can tell you: They are the central area, not a question, but that they are the most important, I would question that. I believe that this is an educational community in which the people concerned, namely the students, the teachers, the students and also the parents can be seen together. It is about an education community, it is about promoting and promoting solidarity in this society. It is clear – and I fully agree with you – that education is a good thing that can cost a little bit. No question! The only question is who can cost it and who should cost it. And you didn't make any statement about that, no clear and precise statement. Finally, it is a cultural issue and a political and social question, in which direction the educational landscape in Austria is developing, and for this you have in your current opinions except the term "focusing on: Technology billions" did not say anything essential. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to say a few words about your cultural accents. – Your proposal contains examples that show where to go. So, as I believe, the reduction of the general cultural promotion from 36 million schilling to 29 million schilling is a clear expression of your cultural policy. But also the reduction of the promotion of minorities as well as the reduction of the Austrian cultural service show where your path leads. The example of "Austrian cultural service" shows that you are not concerned with driving forward new integrative models of technology culture and democracy mediation in school. I don't want to keep a specific example from you either: Without specifically addressing the work of these organisations, I would like to say: Their decision to raise the funds for the "Austrian folk songs" by 25 percent, to do higher, but vice versa at the Museum "Workworld in Steyr" to cut the funds by more than 25 percent also shows clearly where your educational and cultural policy path will go. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, following our request made by Mr Brosz, I would like to ask you to support a small sector of education, which would actually correspond to your intentions, Mrs Bundesminister, namely the Waldorf schools, a typical example of a home-made reform pedagogy. Rudolf Steiner, the founder of this reform pedagogy, was an Austrian. In this small educational segment, my colleague Brosz has already mentioned this, you cut the funds by more than 45 percent! I would ask you to support this small area of alternative schools, reform schools and at least to show in a sub-area that you give more than lip confessions of yourself! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7459	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7480	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the subject of cultural policy in the field of Federal Minister Gehrer, I would like to mention a few brief examples of the fact that this area is not taken as seriously as it should be. The museum policy of recent years is particularly characterised by the fact that the closing times of the museums have been extended, even particularly long closing times have entered into force. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have been the biggest vulnerability in the old government!]] This is true for the Technical Museum as well as for the Albertina. But I think you might have been able to shorten these closing times by far in a little more commitment. But now to the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who repeatedly claim that the Social Democrats are solely responsible for the budgets of previous years. We're on the budgets we've made! It would also be good if you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, would stand by it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would just like to give you one example: The Technical Museum was closed from mid-1992 to June 1999, and from 1995 to 1996, the personnel costs increased from 31 641 million schilling to 32 906 million schilling. That means: Although the museum was closed and no one was able to enter, staff were recorded. This was done in your area, Mrs. Federal Minister! So, very carefully, the money has not been handled there, I would like to say that again. And for that, an ÖVP ministry was in charge. I'd like to hold this once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm just trying to figure out what happened. No one understands this, because at a closed museum it will hardly be necessary to increase staff costs. I would like to have said this from this point of view. Another example: You pass lapidar beyond that 300 leaves from the collection of the Austrian Gallery are missing. These 300 leaves are probably worth more than the total budget for museums in one year. But I miss any consequence and any discussion with the leadership of this museum! It's adventurous when 14-sleeve pictures, 14-sleeve sheets disappear, and they say: Yes, you can't do anything, but it's so much better anyway, because the Court of Auditors has found that there are 3 200 leaves, but now only 300 leaves are missing!, and you leave the responsible person unscathed. This should happen once in the private sector: that 300 of the most valuable, irreplaceable treasures of art in this country to express it harmlessly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no consequence of these mistakes! There is no coordinated procedure in this regard! But now I come to the theme "Museum Square". – You have already stretched out contemporary art and culture from the Government Convention. And now, at the "Museum Square", you're putting out virtually everything that's contemporary. They want everything out there that's unloving. It's all that's used for conceiving and decorating, all right, the established is all right, but woe, there's something else, trendy, new! It's got to get out of the quarters. It's gonna get the termination. All the contemporary areas were thrown out of the "Museum Square". There is no concept that provides what everything is meant to come in, but there is only the task of creating a concept. I think it would be pretty slow now to know what's going on in this museum quarter. I ask you: Don't let contemporary art fall through the rust! It is a reflection of our society and shows us the way to the future. I hope you don't align your policy according to Karl Farkas' quote: We Austrians look hopefully into the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7546	Mrs Moser has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7589	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Could not close temporary folder: %s You have today's birthday – Mrs Minister, also my congratulations! – my request to remember what was really important to you in your childhood, in your schooling, in your time of education. I think there was something very important for you, which was very short in this debate today. I think there was something important, which means personality formation, which means time to develop personal skills, which means also must. I would like to quote a word by Mrs Brinek, who has put this into the debate. There was certainly also something important that could be described about with the term 'apprenticeship', having time for young people, for children. I think that was central to you. I have missed these terms in this debate where it was primarily about school new, about school as a business, as a company, about university as a competence center. I see the objective of the overall debate on education as only relatively vague and not clarified. I would therefore like to put from the green side very clearly at the centre of the discussions that our goal is the personality developed on all sides. We are concerned that in the future in Austria we will have socially, solidarity-oriented people who are involved in the economy that are involved in society, who can also live a life that is fulfilled in private. We are resisting the reductionist approach that seems to be behind words like laptop. Please do not want to have reduced the school's access to the so-called I and E media. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Khol! You may think that this is very conservative, but I have been missing this attitude lately in the People's Party. It's about values, and it's about values of personality, it's about deeply humanistic and humane values. These seem to me in this gearbox, where it is only more about costs and fees, to be very strong at the edge, if not even pushed off. That's why my plea: Not only do you consider education as a fee system, education as a cost factor, education as an element of any future technologies in Austria, but you talk first and foremost about education as an opportunity for all Austrians – I emphasize: all Austrians – so that they can live as full a life as possible, because then they are satisfied both at work and then overall in the social discourse! This is the condition for me not to split this society. Another word to you personally, Mrs. Federal Minister: Perhaps it was also important to you as a teacher or teacher, depending on how you want to titulate it, that you really train students who simply learn the upright course. The commitment to the upright course, the confession to civil courage is for me personally something very essential that the school is supposed to convey – beyond computer knowledge, beyond expertise and beyond commercially usable things. You, Mrs Fekter, certainly also appreciate in your company individuals who argue their views and then are able to carry out certain projects in teamwork, in solidarity cooperation. For this the school must also, the university must also create the conditions. That's a degree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7643	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7664	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If collectors like Mr. Leopold go on the road together with network experts like Konrad Becker, this is a good indication that it is anything but a daily situation. Of course, it's about the "Museum Square". If it were only a matter of different orientations of cultural policy, then one could discuss it calmly. In the last few weeks and months there has been a completely different impression of a political revanche action by the head of the Ministry of Education and the Federal Government, whether this is a collector of the world's reputation or the founder of new cultural network initiatives. Smooth political revanche without any cultural policy consideration. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Would a revanche be necessary?]] Now to the facts. There are the so-called precaria, bit loan contracts. It is the new cultural policy that says some of the most exciting initiatives not only to this city, but to this Republic: Take care of a bit of loan. At best we give you precaria, because we want to keep your future as uncertain as possible. When asked about the current head of the "Museumsquartier", the Museumsquartier set-up and operating company, Mr. Waldner, one hears again and again the demand that the initiatives should not be more passive anyway. Then I ask a few small questions: First: Why not give the initiatives a guarantee that, after the renovations have ended, ordinary permanent rental contracts are offered? Secondly, Why do you miss the initiatives with a springy evolution, as documented in detail in the last "NEWS"? Thirdly, Why are nebulous notions of a quarter 21 enough, why is the mere title enough that initiatives that have already proven themselves and are much more concrete and forward-looking than the title of a quarter 21 that some of the most important exponents of modern and experimental culture are expelled from the centre of the city of Vienna? Now I come to the point of political motives. There can be no artistic and cultural motives, because the only artistic and cultural motives to be taken seriously would be to offer these initiatives security and the future. The only thing one can imagine is that in part these are initiatives that have openly criticized the Federal Government, and this is not allowed since the formation of this government in Austria. All areas of civil society, all areas of art and culture dependent on public funds, have been given a clear signal for months: Do not bite the hand that feeds you. Cuck and cash! – This is the new message of government culture policy. Those who keep their mouths are allowed to indicate their account number. Whoever opens his mouth can go and see how he or she survives. This is the new cultural policy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That you, Mrs. Gehrer, who, in my opinion, still personally stand for another culture and not for this beginning of a free turn in cultural and art policy, is one of the few personal surprises in the course of the recent development of this federal government. One of the few personal surprises! [[Call the ÖVP: But today you are weak!]] They should also be aware, however, that the termination of precaria, of bitts not automatically leads to modern art packing their suitcases and leaving a blue-black quarter 21 to the center of the city. What you are provoking here, Mrs. Federal Minister, is a discussion with those who are engaged in art and culture with all the consequences in this city. [[Abg. Prince: You don't believe that yourself!]] If you want this discussion, there will be this dispute. If you start the cultural struggle, there will be people who will resist it with the means available to them. It is only a shame that you, as a former Federal Minister, are giving up another coalition for this kind of cultural struggle. [[towards the Federal Minister Gehrer, sitting on the government bank]] I also personally regret that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7741	Mrs. Gehrer has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7762	Mr President. High house! There's a lot to make clear. For example, it has been claimed by a speaker that the German Government would no longer receive any money from the German Government. – According to your statement, then, Professor Leopold would no longer have to receive any money, because your statement says he took part in any protests. – I am aware that there is a very targeted discussion with all those working in the museum quarter. Further: A precarium has it in itself that it is just being completed at certain times. It was clear from the outset: If the Fischer-von-Erlach-Trakt is renovated, then the small cultural initiatives have to look for other spaces, because it can only be renovated a building if it is empty. There is a joint Council of Ministers decision from 1998, in which it was noted that these premises, which account for 5 percent of the entire museum quarter, are to be renovated in a user-neutral way – user-neutral! – with all the necessary connections, but not with a single organisation. It was clear from the outset that in the spring of 2001, when renovation will begin, the "Museum quarter" and its premises will no longer be available to the cultural initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen! The concept of the "Museum Quarter" provides that 95 percent are firmly assigned and that 5 percent are available for lively, forward-looking initiatives. And here, please, it is not appropriate to make rental contracts ad infinitum, so to speak, to occupy everything forever and forever. It creates a concept of how the process should look. Any cultural initiative can then lead to negotiations on this. With international experts, we will decide which process will be chosen so that a lively, forward-looking and modern cultural initiative can be created where initiatives that grow larger and need more space can find other spaces – and thus new, forward-looking initiatives can be created. This is the concept that we have decided together in the coalition, and I will also follow this concept.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7808	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur, Mrs Speciale, want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the opinion group VI of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapters 12 and 14 of the Federal Proposal, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory estimate in 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Niederwieser and Mr Genscher have tabled an additional request and an amendment concerning Chapter 14. In addition, Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Chapter 12. First of all, I will be able to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and finally on the remaining parts of the estimates summarised in the Advisory Group VI, together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory proposal. Mr Brosz and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the estimate approach 1/12256. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of Chapter 12 as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever speaks for it, I seek a sign of faith. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The Members of Parliament, Dr Niederwieser and Comrades, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of several estimates in Chapter 14. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Parliamentary Members Dr Niederwieser and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to the estimates 1/14606, 1/14203, 1/14303, 1/14018 and 1/14106. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on those parts of Chapter 14 of the Federal Proposal in the version of the Government's proposal. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group VI, which have not yet been voted on. This includes Chapters 12 and 14 together with the corresponding parts of the economic compensatory estimate of the Federal Estimate in 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group VI of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on education policy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni and Mr Comrades on information technology – offensive at schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 70: Public performance and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7946	We are now entering the negotiations on the XIII advisory group: public performance and sport. The oral report was rejected by Mr Special Rapporteur. Mrs. Dr. Mertel has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e7975	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! On the occasion of the debate on the Federal Ministry Act, I have already found that the new government has succeeded in abolishing the piece of art two: separate ministries without at the same time reducing the government team. The special "art" however is the creation of the Ministry of Public Performance and Sport. The budgets of this ministry are available today for decision-making. I would like to point out that the same applies to this area, to the public sector – and like a blue-black thread, this goes through the entire budget –: It's a load program. This ministry, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, had to be created to do the Blue-Black Proporz enough. And this Proporz-Rochade costs a lot; we have already expressed it to you in a request. This ministry is very personal intensive. The idea of saving has not played a role in your office's equipment! There is a huge staffing effort, according to the motto: This ministry, which in fact consists of an earlier section and a group, is disproportionately equipped with personnel. Of course, there are some questions: What's your office's staffing? What kind of contracts have you concluded with your employees? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Do you have special contracts, employment loans? How do overtime schemes, treatment and pension schemes look like? And what areas of activity have been assigned? On the other hand, there is the fact that 3 500 planning posts are to be abolished in the next year – and this is about the smaller functions; they are rationalized. At the same time, the Federal Government creates many higher functions, strengthens its staff posts and provides cost-intensive special contracts. [[Abg. Kiss: You just believe that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did you get this?]] Yes, I believe that! Just like you when you talk down here. Then you'll be perplexed by your mission awareness. [[Abg. Kiss: I can only touch my head there!]] The main focus of the public service budget is on: You seem to be hesitant that in the budget policy of Federal Minister Edlinger and his official State Secretary Ruttenstorfer one has a right measure in the so often maimed and defamated, without being completely unorientated. [[Abg. Fischl: Edlinger as a sports speaker!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Listen! You could learn something!]] It is noteworthy that in the 1999 budget report, the current government has very positively assessed the significant savings and personnel policies in the public service which have been made in recent years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 300 million Schilling interest per day!]] Their blue-black announcements for the public sector, for the public service, in the election campaign, in the government programme mean massive public service interventions, associated with tax packages for public servants: Degradation of 9 000 public service planning posts by 2004 without reduction of tasks, reduction of planning posts without reduction of tasks! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A few knee bends would have failed now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You don't listen at all!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: master biterl!]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] This not only creates unreasonable employment conditions, but also disadvantages for citizens. They also destroy career opportunities for young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 9.4 billion schilling savings due to the so-called pension reform, which is actually a money acquisition action, carried out on the back of the pensioners. If you claim you did not intervene in existing pensions, I must tell you: That's not true! There is an intervention in existing pensions alone by increasing the pension contribution of pensioners and a strengthening of the inequality of treatment for women through reductions in pensions before 61.5. Year of life. [[Abg. Grabner enters the meeting room and becomes a member of the Freeman with a large "Hello!" welcome.]] Another point: the sustainable saving of 10 billion schilling annually in the federal activity effort.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8153	Please, I am very pleased about lively debates especially in the early afternoon, because this also automatically eliminates all approaches of fatigue. However, if it goes so far that one no longer understands the speaker, then the measure is something overlaid. I therefore call for some attention to be paid to giving the speaker a fair chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8169	Sustainable savings of 10 billion schilling per year at the federal level. This is contrary to the following: The overview 28 shows that this year, as has already been said, you want to delete 3 500 planning posts. At the same time, however, the survey 29 shows that the activity will increase from 108 billion to 110.7 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Thank you for emphasizing my meaning!]] There is the project of the linear deletion of 3 500 planning posts alone this year, which will mainly meet small staff, without the slightest indication of a concept of the redistribution of tasks. So that means: Reduction of staff, but not in the tasks, without the slightest differentiation in areas where there is a reasonable saving, and those in which further savings are to be made. This can only mean two things: Either there is a lack of expertise and know-how, or there is no political clock, the will to deal with the ideas of dissidents, with the needs of those concerned. However, in 100 days the government would rightly have negotiated the accusation of a reckless, authoritarian procedure, for it is acting according to the motto: "Cashing, shortening, driving." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Why? How did you get it?]] In the chapter "Performable State" – you can read this, it is your government program – it is expressive: In all the reforms, the involvement of the employees concerned, the staff representation, the public service union is essential. They always say: Measure us by our words and our deeds! – Well, I am taking you on the basis of these statements from your government programme to assess the seriousness of your words and to what extent your actions correspond to them. [[Abg. Kiss: That's one thing taken over!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Really not!]] The fact that this call for "driving" is something to do with it shows your approach to the first legislative bodies concerning officials. The draft law "Pension cash scheme for civil servants" was sent out without the invitation of the GÖD for review. The draft objective law has also been designed without prior negotiations with the Public Service Trade Union. The draft pension reform was reviewed during the negotiations. So it must be assumed that you either do not know how to conduct negotiations, how to involve the negotiators, how to develop a common solution, or, I believe, you simply do not want to cooperate, and you simply want to frustrate the trade unions deliberately. That leaves nothing good for the future! On the other hand, one must never give up hope. ==References====External links== In May 2000 special sacrifices were made for the public service, and the pension reform negotiations allowed more time. This makes you hope that you gradually understand how to achieve solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg, with his well-known sensitivity and his inimitable tact, accused officials of losing reality, namely those who had to experience deep and long-term interventions, called "reforms", already in 1997. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Not the officials, not the public servants, but the officials' union would have to wake up to the realization of reality, but those in charge of the newly invented Ministry of Public Services. Ladies and gentlemen! You should wake up and recognize the political reality, then you would find that you do not have savings targets, but stress goals, and that if you talk about social security, you only think about how you can hit more socially weak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8261	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8282	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My topic would be sport, but I will put it back a little bit, Mrs Colleague, and I would like to comment briefly on the comments made by my previous speaker; only three points, very briefly. The savings measures that are now in place in our programme are, with few exceptions, also included in that coalition agreement, which was not signed at that time, and they have been proposed for the most part by Mr Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The agreement is therefore not there!]] Second point: Staff savings. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: 9 000, 3 500 a year!]] If our country, which is one of those who deals with the highest number of public servants, then it must be legitimate to ask ourselves whether we can still afford all this in times when we have such budget problems to solve. Each management of a company and thus a government has to ask itself the question: Are rationalizations possible? And they're possible. You should also ask, perhaps your former Finance Minister Edlinger: Who in the last legislative period has prevented a task reform commission from being set up? We've always said: Of course, if you want to save staff, you also have to question the tasks! – Of course, this federal government will be accompanying what is now in the budget for a reduction. Of course, this federal government will also question these tasks. You can be sure of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thirdly, in the course of the procedure. – I expect a management board, that is, the Federal Government, of course, to develop clear ideas about how to lead the company state in all sub-sectors. If there is any idea in the area of civil servants' pensions or other pension areas, then it is only legitimate – you mentioned the review procedure earlier – that is a participation procedure for all those concerned – that the government is developing a proposal that will be sent out for review and that will also invite discussion during the time. It is well known that Only then will a decision be taken in the government, and then the parliamentary treatment of the whole comes. For the trade unions, for all those who have an interest in participation, there is a great deal of time and opportunity to get involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Then you don't know the legal regulations!]] But now to my real topic, to sport. Mrs Sports Minister! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Fischl.]] First of all, I would like to congratulate you for having succeeded in a precarious budgetary situation in difficult budget negotiations to deliver the budget for sport to the greatest extent – with very few exceptions. [[Abg. Grabner: We have decided this for two years before!]] It has, as has been said, been able to provide adequate budgetary resources for a socially important and significant sector such as sport. In addition, Mr Grabner, you will be right to do so, even in the area of general sports promotion, which, as you know, has not been laid down by law at its level, has succeeded in saving the budget for important projects. Congratulations and warm thanks for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It should not be forgotten, however, that we will still have a few tasks to do in the future. You have already mentioned it, Arnold GrabnerWe have also defined the special sport promotion by law with the increasing stages by 2002. However, we will have to ensure - and this is already set out in the government agreement - that we are already a step ahead of time - that from 2003 onwards we will maintain the same level or even increase it. We will also do everything we can. In this context, I may also be able to clean up with a march, even if it has not yet been addressed, but it will certainly still be addressed. It is about the fact that in the Government Convention for the financing of these further promotions, the idea is to impose a tax on private betting agencies in order to finance it. This idea has not come to my colleague Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance Grasser, and she has nothing to do with Mr Stronach having a pleasure with it. The competition offices, which may also be set up by Mr Stronach once, or even a competition channel, or whatever, should be asked to register so that we can promote small associations in sports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Managing Director Grasser!]] So that there is no misunderstanding and no fairy tales are told: Stronach will not benefit from it, he will have to pay if he gets into this business. Second point: general sport promotion. The topic has been moving through the sports debates for many years now. I have been asking for clear, transparent guidelines for a funding pot for years, which, at least, covers about 200 million schillings. State Secretary Wittmann and previously State Secretary Schlögl has promised this time and again. I realize why they didn't want it. [[Abg. Kiss: To better drive around!]] Of course, it is more pleasant to be able to distribute 200 million schillings per year. That's clear to me. Mr Pilz has previously said that it is a principle – which is, of course, absurd – that you have to kiss in order to be able to cash. That's absurd! [[Abg. Fischl: That's right! That's how it used to be!]] But do you know what used to be in sports promotion? One had to be in the red bells of those responsible for sports, otherwise one could not get anything. That used to be the reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This has already led me to a really disgusting chapter, namely the promotion of top-level sports. It is fragmented, divided into different facilities and promotion programmes. The sports aid does what, it is undisputed positive, a reasonable establishment. There are the top sports committee that distributes a few million out of the federal budget. It is already to be questioned that outside funds of the federal government are awarded, of course, more or less with the final responsibility of the Minister. In the past, however, this has happened without any real influence from the Secretary of State. And there are many other areas more. I think it would be time for all these funding institutions to be freed, first of all, from the party-political influence which it has given quite clearly, and from the very clear assignment to a party, and for us to bring these funds into a new, if possible new, but also the sports aid, which is used for this purpose – funding agency and also marketing agency, for which Mrs Vice-Chancellor nominates experts and, of course, a responsible management who serves this area professionally, but independently and also party-independently. This could be done, for example, under the roof of the EOC. We therefore have an extremely competent institution. There is also a competent leadership of this organization, which also enjoys international highest recognition. We know that in other matters too, we also outsource other funding, whether it be in the environmental field, or in other areas. So why not also in sports promotion? I believe that this would be a creative approach in order to ensure objectivity within the meaning of the athletes, in the sense of the sports officials, the responsible, all those who have to do with sports. I believe that efficiency would also rise massively if we could go in this direction. There are still a number of points in the Government Convention, statements of intent, agreements on sport. Ladies and gentlemen from my group, and I, of course, also those of our coalition partner, will subsequently present these points even more precisely. I do not think there has been much, if at all, a government agreement that has included such concrete points as the ÖVP and FPÖ agreement on sport promotion and planning. I appeal to you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor – but I know it is not necessary, we have already held several talks about it. I am very sure that these points will be implemented without exception until the end of the legislative period and probably before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8459	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8480	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As part of the savings package in 1997, the main focus was on public service. There was a fairly clear statement of intent that this should be and remain the public service's contribution to a further and then truly comprehensive harmonisation of service rights – employees, workers, public service. I think that there is already something like a principle of trust also beyond the boundary of the formation of a new government constellation. This principle of trust was clearly and clearly violated. I don't think you need to wonder about the reaction of the public service. If a contractual partner – and at least one party in the government has remained the same – does not comply with the word broken and given pledges, then he will receive an answer that does not express much joy and which can also be somewhat harder. We of the Greens can quite understand that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that there have already been major mistakes made by the previous government, because one did not want to have a meaningful reform discussion, which would have been with the public officials with absolute certainty. Instead, it is mainly by the public service provider. Actually, service always as a moloch, as a pure cost factor, as something one does not know why there are so many public servants and what they are all there and what they are doing. Faith You really think on the opposite side you'll find a real willingness to talk if you make the other one bad from the beginning? The climate for meaningful and productive negotiations has already been corrupted for a long time from the outset, not by the employees. Ladies and gentlemen! The Head of Parliament said that we had the highest number of employees in the public service. [[Abg. Head: One of the countries!]] Yes, one of the countries with the highest number. But I think you can't compare absolute numbers like that. It would involve how the States and the public service and the services provided by the public authorities are organized. It also raises the question: How are services better, cost-effective, service-oriented, transparent and controlled? – For example, it is education like the European Union, which has only relatively few competences in its own administration, and in turn the different national states are not comparable. No statement can therefore be made without prior consideration of the task reform you are also addressing. I ask in every form what the relationships look like. For example, if I know – we will very soon have the opportunity to discuss it – that in the area of military services about 1,000 public servants are employed in the broadest sense, while the entire labour inspection to protect all Austrian workers employs about 300 people, there is actually something wrong. That's what you need to do. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There would be a great need for reform, and we should also talk about how important functions are, how they can be effectively organized and how many people are needed to do so. If you provide only a number of savings targets – 2 000 posts – then this means that, for example, jobs of pensioners or pensioners are not re-occupied. This, in particular, leads to the fact that services, which are hardly done and overloaded with their tasks today, are of course even more in distress. With one – thank God, I say – non-discriminatory remuneration in the public service, many will ask themselves the question of how it is at all possible to do work in a service if it is not going back and front. That means you're putting these already overburdened services in train more. This cannot certainly be in the interest of taxpayers, because it leads to the collapse of entire units sooner or later. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The key word "reform of tasks": The Greens would have had a wealth of proposals, such as could really save a lot without the deterioration of the quality of performance and without oversupplication of public servants. There was a very important step towards this, which was suggested by Mr Strasser: the harmonisation of the right of residence and employment in the field of employment of foreigners. This could make thousands of jobs more useful in the public service, which would probably help at least three-digit million amounts, if not billions of money, and it would be a benefit for those concerned if all those who are legally resident for a longer period of time and not only tourist can also earn and work their own money. Well, what was there to hear from the coalition partner FPÖ? - No, you can't imagine that. But then one does not need to lead the Lamento through an inconspicuous, expensive and inefficient administration. That's what it's about law and not about public servants. A second example of this – which is also a major concern of the Greens, and for this we have presented a draft law - is a harmonised environmental plant law: security for the establishments that they know what activities they can operate and what permits they can expect in short periods of time; But security also for the citizens that they are party to the procedure, that they can speak with them and that one does not pass over them. This could save a lot, it would, in particular, lift the image of the public service and end very difficult, long-sleeping and opaque procedures. This draft is available; I believe it is already in the third legislative period. I ask you: Where's your desire to reform? – Just to lament the public service and thus to break the motivation of the public servants without addressing the reform of the task, I think it is extremely unfair! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] One of the last things – this is a point that is very important to me personally, and he also has to do with economic reason – are the entire breakdowns. So far, you have remained guilty of answering the question of which areas, for which reasons, are being distributed and whether this is really cheaper. A large number of services have been distributed. In the broadest sense you can say: The social sector and the education sector must repeatedly justify their right to exist within the public service, while state functions are guaranteed with command and forced force with Pragmatization. In all forms I ask you: Was it really cheaper to extract the AMS and even now to send it into complete legal independence? I would like to see the figures, and I would also like to know how much it has improved the legal protection of those concerned. I can't see any improvement. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are on the wrong subject, Mrs. Colleague!]] Yeah, then give the numbers! There were requests – one from my colleague, Van der Bellen – and why do you constantly reject this? Do you want to close your eyes, or is it about something else: that you want to introduce the blue-black pride there far away from the control of Parliament? That's the impression that comes about here. Or prove the opposite! But then you finally have to put action. I'm sure that's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8576	It now speaks Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8597	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer some of the questions raised in the course of this debate before I give an opinion on the two fundamental areas of the matter today. Mrs Petrovic! Unfortunately, I have to tell you that the questions you have asked me are wrong. You have to ask the Minister of Finance. I ask Mr Edlinger to address the question of why the AMS has been distributed and whether, as it has been, it has been successful. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's here too!]] He can certainly better explain to you what he thought about it. I don't know what it's done if I look at the result today! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To Mrs Mertel, who has put some suspicions as questions into the room and then immediately left the hall without waiting for an answer! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a style!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not true at all! ... a selective perception!]] I would ask her colleagues from the Socialist Group to inform her of the following: The claim that the newly founded Ministry of Public Performance and Sport has a huge staffing burden and has led to a tremendous bloating of the administration is either based on complete misinformation or is an intentional false presupposition. The fact is that my ministry has exactly 11 planning posts taken over from other ministries – it has not been created any new planning site – and these are at least four to five employees less than had the cabinet of the individual State Secretary of Social Democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you can find out at ex-State Secretary Wittmann and ex-minister Prammer how many employees they have had and what these many employees have done! My ministry, which covers not only the field of public administration and sports, but also the coordination tasks of the vice chancellor, comes with considerably fewer employees. Please also point out, Mrs Mertel, that there is no special contract and three employment loans in my ministry. That's why she answered her question. [[Call to the liberals: That was a piper!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That unfortunately happened next door by Mrs Mertel! That's why she's not here either! She's ashamed of herself in some corner now!]] [[Further calls.]] I would also like to point out that Mrs Mertel recommended that I take former Minister of Finance Edlinger as the right measure for my actions. With all due respect, Mr Edlinger: If I were not to say that I would certainly not do this, because if I were to make you the right policy of this new federal government, it would have to be my goal to produce the highest unemployment and the highest debt of the Second Republic. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] That's certainly not it! But you're right in that we know how we certainly don't want to do it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now on the topic of public service: That we have called this ministry "public performance" has the special reason that we wanted to express with it how we understand the administration state: not just as a static administration of the given, but as a development to the state of service, to see the state as a service provider and the citizen as customers, but not as a bitter. In my opinion, contrary to what I heard from some previous speakers, the quality of public administration has not to do with how many heads are working in this administration – everything that has so far been criticised has had a lot to do with headlines – but it depends on the quality of the performance that is provided, on the framework conditions for officials to be able to provide these services as well, and on the service and service character towards the citizen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Posch:... talk like this!]] The fact is that the costs of public administration in Austria are high in international comparison. Of course you can compare this, Mrs Petrovic. Of course, we have to ask ourselves why in Austria there is much more public service effort than in Germany or Switzerland – that is, in countries that have very well functioning administrations – and why, for example, in Germany, public service expenditure is 2% lower than in Austria and the state works well there. This is a question that we must ask ourselves, of course. We must also ask ourselves why the share of public servants in the total employment rate in Austria is 23 percent, but on the international average only 15 percent, because we should also deal with the question of how we finance it. This is the central point. We have made three paradigms the goal of our administrative reform. This means ensuring the service state for consumers, the slim state for taxpayers and the fair state for workers. We have stated in our government program that all offices and resorts receive global budgets. This is a very important and essential area of administrative innovation, because appropriate incentives for innovation are also provided by the fact that a certain percentage of the savings achieved can be used for one's own organisation or directly paid to the employees who have such innovative ideas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the first place, job reform means that we make a fundamental definition of what is really the key tasks of the state, what the state has to do for citizens, and what can be done better, cheaper and more efficiently elsewhere. No citizen in this state likes to pay taxes, not because the money with which he pays these taxes must be earned hard. To do so, he should also receive the benefits from the state he needs, quickly and cost-effectively! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we must ensure that there are working conditions for officials to ensure and enable them to provide these services as well. There is also a need for policy in that we must not constantly overload the administration with new regulations and regulations, which are hardly feasible in practice and cause huge costs not only for the public sector but also, above all, for the private and private households. For this reason, one of the main objectives of the administrative reform is to stop the flood of law and to examine the public impact of laws in terms of effectiveness and cost calculation. At the end of this task reform, satisfied citizens and recognised officials are to stand. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I found it very significant in Mrs Mertel's statement that she presented the objective as something negative and critical. For me, for our group and for the whole of the Federal Government, this is one of the most important projects we have at all, because it is intended to ensure that the award of posts and posts in the public service is finally carried out only and exclusively according to the criteria of the qualification and performance of the individual applicants, but no longer according to the party membership and according to the party book. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have ensured that there are already requirements profiles drawn up by independent staff consulting offices in the tendering procedures, that external consultants are involved in the selection of candidates and in the assessment procedures, and that there is finally a legal protection for transitional candidates in so far as they can contact an objective body and have a decision reviewed. That is, I see this step as a real liberation for the skilled employees in the public service. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen, about social democracy: I have experienced in the first three months of my term of office that there are a whole series of highly qualified and excellent employees in the public service in Austria, who only have to be a member of a party because they cannot otherwise make a career. We create the conditions for the fact that the party book for careers is no longer a prerequisite, but that it depends on the performance and qualifications of the employees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very good!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] I can already imagine that you do not like this, Mr President, because all that contradicts what you have understood for 55 years in this country is politics. They believed they had to make party book and party membership a condition to make people fit. That is the result of your government policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls and calls between Members of Parliament Grabner and Head.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Modernising the management also means making use of the opportunities and opportunities of new technologies and communication. One of the most important future projects in Austria is... [[Abg. Riepl: Slower reason! Please slow down a little bit!]] I can also repeat it several times if you like to hear it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't follow so fast? You can only think slowly, that's why you have to talk slowly?]] [[Further calls.]] If you think a little faster, you can also safely follow my faster words. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] One of the most important future projects of this Federal Government is e-Austria, which includes the area of e-government, i.e. new communication, the new dialogue between the citizen and the state. We are facing the most likely major change in this area since the industrial revolution, a change that is essential not only for the country's welfare development as a whole but also for job creation and democratisation. No matter where a person lives – whether in a mining village or in an urban center next to a university – knowledge and information access will be the same for everyone in the future. This is an essential prerequisite for equal opportunities in society. That is why this project is one of the most urgent projects of this Federal Government. We have taken a first essential step in the eGovernment programme through the "help.gv.at" programme, which ensures that every citizen can receive information on the administrative paths in a more direct, understandable and rapid form. But it is even more important that we enable citizens to have direct access to the administration in the future, without administrative channels, without office hours and cost-effective. This means that government decisions, requests, decisions and the like can be dealt with through this system. We will also ensure that not only the speed of decision-making is improved, but this is also much cheaper. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, with regard to public services, let me address the issue of pension reform, because I believe that this is a very important area and that hardly any area has been produced in the last few days and weeks as much misinformation as it does about it. The task of the State and the Federal Government must be to ensure the pensions of the older generation, but also to keep the contribution of the younger generation in an adequate proportion. This is also the principle of public service. Unfortunately, much of what has been said here today goes completely beyond the reality of God. To propose the 1997 pension reform as a basic system reform is simply and simply wrong. The fact is that in 1997 there were significant problems, also due to the massive resistance of social democracy. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] Our principle, which applies equally to the ASVG sector... [[Abg. Gaugg: You have failed, Minister Edlinger!]] Our principle, which applies to the ASVG sector as well as to the public service, means: no intervention in existing pensions! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It also says: Valuation of pensions by fixed amounts – which is particularly beneficial to the members of small pensions in the public service – and that is to say – that is an irrevocable principle for me, ladies and gentlemen: Equal treatment between the ASVG insured persons and officials in the public service. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] It is a command of fairness – and thus it would stop us from playing people who work for the state against people who work in the private economy. The principle of fairness and equal treatment must apply! And that is exactly the principle of this pension reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8901	I am now interrupting Mrs Vice-Chancellor's statement and asking her to continue following the debate on the urgent question, which we are now negotiating at 3 p.m. as announced. Request for urgent procedure by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic, Dr. Peter Pilzund Comrades to the Federal Minister for State Defence concerning the State of Surveillance (767/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e8934	We now come to the urgent question 767/J by Mrs Petrovic and the Group of the European People's Party to the Federal Minister for Defence. As this urgent question has now been addressed to all Members, a reading by the scribe is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9039	I may ask Mrs. Dr. Petrovic as the first questioner to justify the urgent request in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. The speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9060	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We have already discussed a number of times in the past legislative period about the need to regulate and control state action in all areas, including in the field of secret government services. In principle, the Greens have always taken action to ensure that there is no area of state activity and that there is no legal control mechanism. Now there is a government template for the military's powers, in particular the military services, which promises nothing good, which we believe is the limits of the rule of law and is an attack on the rule of law and the citizens. It will also be possible, after answering the specific questions raised, to deal with which persons and what is now specifically the exercise of those powers which are now to be regulated black on white with this government template. There is, in particular, a central principle of the rule of law, where it is a matter of dangerous, possibly prohibited, incriminated action: The standard subjects must be able to know in advance what one cannot do in that State, which is therefore potentially punishable, which may lead to a state invaluable judgment. That is the central principle of the rule of law! Those who may engage with the rule of law need to know what is forbidden, and the general public must have information about it – general prevention is called that – where the boundaries of individual freedom lie. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] This principle, according to our conviction, is broken several times with this presentation, because what exactly forbidden, dangerous, repugnant actions are, is not really recognized in it, nor is anyone who assesses the danger, according to which principles, principles, guidelines or ideologies they estimate the danger, and who, therefore, has to be expected to observe, discipline and control. Let us stick to the first question: Who are those who can be dangerous, and how do they find out – at least in retrospect – that they are considered dangerous? We only know what military services have done so far from the shadows of the past. There are, for example, files on "mothers against nuclear hazards". I ask you in every form, Mr Federal Minister: Do you think it is a dangerous activity when women, when mothers try to ban the dangers of border nuclear power plants, with sign lists, with petitions, try to ban a deadly danger of saving our children a fate like that of the children of Chernobyl? Is that the danger? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The existence of at least one file, namely the file on the former Green Member, Mrs Mag. Pollet-Kammerlander has been admitted, that is accepted, and we know of some other files. Minister! You yourself have complained earlier as a Member of Parliament that there would be no control that these were just Alibi checks. I now ask you: How do you keep it as a minister now? Are the "mothers against nuclear hazards" or individual Members of this House still dangerous? And why do you continue with this draft if in § 20 of the draft – and necessarily! – is it stated that persons, magazines, authors who are "critically or partially negatively dealing with the German army"? – Critical discussion of a matter is the profession, the task of journalists and journalists, and they must be monitored for exercising their profession? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria in the constitutional order, and there were even ministers who have not only dealt critically with it but have exceeded the limits of this neutrality law precisely, for example through arms sales. I'm asking: Are they not much more dangerous? What are those standards of "critical... dealing with the German army", what does that mean? Is it not possible to say that perhaps the motivation or training of the federal army would be better? That is also a critical remark! And such a remark leads to surveillance? Where is the rule of law? Where's the border? To whom is the use required? – This is completely indifferent and thus beyond the limits of the rule of law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is another point to this: We know that these services are used not only by state agencies but also by companies. And we also know that some large companies and companies are commissioning their own security personnel and that there is a data deal. Of course, it will be even more interesting if the companies, which do a lot of positive things, secure a lot of jobs, but also have a stand-by leg in the nuclear industry, such as Siemens. And that these so many activities of the "mothers against nuclear hazards" may be critical, I can already understand, but the question arises: Why is the Republic of Austria on the side of Siemens and against the "mothers against nuclear hazards"? I can't understand that anymore! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We know that, for example, pharmaceutical companies – we even know concrete examples such as the company Immuno/Baxter – are forcing CA, Siemens to do such activities. I ask you: Is it now the case that one can carry out a growing data deal and that there is now also the appropriate legal basis for this – even more so that this basis also refers to trade with data abroad? With whom, I ask, who are you going to exchange with? How, then, was this in case of war conflicts and conflicts? On whose side, where was the neutrality? Where were those legally protected values? The first point is: Who is it against? Who are the allies? Who are the potential stakeholders? – It is completely unclear, not precise and therefore unconstitutional! Second point: When is a bet recommended? – There is also a comparison with criminal law: There is a very clear limit to criminality in criminal law. Perhaps one should not think evil, but not yet the area of state law. In state law there is a very clear border, it is regulated in § 15 of the Criminal Code and is called "try". At that moment when a perpetrator, a perpetrator of this stage, exceeds, criminality has been given, regardless of the execution of the act, in some, particularly dangerous offences, even earlier, in the case of preparatory proceedings. This is clearly and precisely defined in the Criminal Code. So I can know as a standard subject: Now I have reached the point where I have to expect punishment and persecution. Let's compare this with your draft, with this government template: None of it is contained in it! – As a result, these secret services can be considered themselves when they turn on somewhere. If the "mothers against nuclear hazards" spread a leaflet when they stand somewhere and collect signatures – is that dangerous, is that forbidden? The military services can handle it this way. You can start such use at any time if you consider the time to come. What that actually is should not be introduced in a state with the history of Austria at all and at no price: There are, of course, exceptional regulations, without the imposition of the state of emergency! There are exceptional rules in some countries – and there can be dangerous circumstances that are so dangerous that the normal rules of the game no longer apply – but then there must be a definition of the point where: Here the limit is reached, there are other rules of play! They have presented with this draft in the middle of peace, in the middle of the rule of law, which violates this border and is beyond the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The potential stakeholders are not clear, the time is not clear. The third question is: From which provision of the Austrian Constitution – which should apply to all of us, and to which we have made an oath – do you derive the special protectiveness of military legal goods? – Yes, it is true that the comprehensive state defense in the Constitution is called a protective property, but alongside others! And I can't see why this is a very exceptional property of the military, including the secret services, should be used, but not the protection of other legal goods. The "mothers against nuclear hazards" are acting for the health of their children, for the protection of life – a clearly protected legal property, a legal property which is often also protected internationally! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner:... Absorption!]] Why are the military legal goods superior in this draft? Why is it even so far that it approves a rather indifferent use of arms? Why is there a license to lie? – There is a requirement to be able to provide false information – without consequences, without abuse of office or anything else! That is, a constitutional value that stands next to others experiences a completely different level of protection at once! This is clearly unconstitutional because this high quality of military protective goods cannot be derived from any provision of the Austrian Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the question arises: What are the legal limits of the operation? – Obviously, other fundamental rights are no longer a limit. The telecommunications secret is no longer an object – mobile phones can be monitored, everything can be monitored! But it goes even further – and in that, I would say, there is a very hard and clear unconstitutional non-constitution: Public servants can be behaved to make a serious offence, namely decriminalization! I read this to you because I have the impression that some Members have not read the draft – I quote –: [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Explain this to us!]] "As far as Federal authorities or authorities of the Central Federal Administration or Mayor are legally appointed to issue documents, they have, at the request of the Federal Minister of State Defense for the purpose of hidden investigations" – for example, against the "Atom mothers" – "according to Abs. 4 produce documents that deceive about the identity of a person. These documents may only be issued within the framework of an order from a military service in accordance with Abs. 1 to be used in the course of legal proceedings." - Quote. Na bravo, I can only say! The license for false certificates, only in the service of the military authorities – that is immense! That's what's going on! But above all, there is still, I hope, a public service law in which, at least so far, it has been very clear how far public servants have to follow instructions. So far, this limit is: Criminal illegality. This means that a public servant or a public servant must tell the superior a No if he, with the desire of him or her to commit a criminal offence. The forgery of documents is clear, stoned and clearly a criminal act. How can you use a simple law diametrically in other simple laws? This is a perplexity, a clear and unconquered illegality of the constitution. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You really have to let this go on the tongue again: They have to fake documents to deceive others, so they put actions that otherwise commit criminals. – Minister of State! I think that can't be serious about this in a government paper. Or do you really want people to commit crimes, in the service of a value that is not above the other values of our rule of law? [[Call for the call.]] I come to the last point, to the questions of control. My colleague, Peter Pilz, will then deal specifically with the question: Who are those who want to carry out this law, and who are those against whom it is directed? In this regard, we will probably bring to light very interesting circumstances already today. But now to the question: Who controls these monsterities – at least in retrospect? – I do not even look back on green theses now, but quote the chairman of the Austrian judicial association, Dr. Helige. She speaks in connection with the legal protection officer of "Feigenblatts", and she reasons it because this legal protection officer from the Minister – that is, from you! – will be determined. As a Member of Parliament, you have still strongly criticized this! Ms. Helige also sees the "risk of massive fundamental rights intervention". But the all-in-all is still coming: This legal protection officer has no access to documents and has no right to information! This means that he or she cannot even determine whether there is illegal action. That is to say, in this proposal there is a general distrust of associations such as the "mothers against nuclear hazards" and a limitless free letter for those who may not already take it too carefully with the rule of law today. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to you – I hope you do –: Read this draft before you give your consent easily! It is a law that goes beyond every limit of the rule of law, which has so far existed in Austria, which creates a free letter without any precise legal definition of surveillance, demarcation, spying, for new technical methods which can be against any and every one of us who oppose religious communities, against citizens' initiatives, against environmental initiatives. In addition to those who already have this instrument in hand, we have asked the Minister some specific questions, and we are excited about the answers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9196	In response to the urgent question, the Minister of State spoke. The statements shall not exceed 20 minutes, but may exceed them. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9217	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is always referred to my parliamentary past here in the House. I am proud to have been Members of this House for almost ten years. That is why I also respect the right of Members, to a minister, to a department of questions and, of course, to ask urgent questions. But apart from that, I also have the right to assess and assess the background to these questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic! I consider it necessary to obtain information, of course, to discuss legislative proposals, to amend them, and to vote against a law. Of course! The question is: Did you also use all possibilities to get this information? In recent times, there would have been some possibilities: We had a national defence committee – unfortunately there was no representative of your club present! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it!]] We had a budget debate yesterday, a very detailed, a very good and very objective debate. We had two speakers from your club. Mr Pilz came in shortly before his contribution to the debate and went out shortly after his speech. I have offered to colleagues Pilz – he is also a member of the Control Committee – every information, and of course I have - you know, I am not bound to the silence in this committee, therefore I can talk about procedural issues - that I will clearly respect the possibility of control and the powers of this committee, which I have belonged to for many years, not only, but also to the greatest extent possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why it is a bit strange to put in here today such a urgent request for a military power law, which will still be discussed in a very detailed manner in committee meetings. That's one of your questions. I cannot, of course, influence which parliamentary procedures you decide for yourself, but, of course, I have expressed my willingness to give my consent to every appointment and procedure. As far as I know, there will be not only an appointment for this military power law but two dates. It will also be to be discussed with experts. Then you have the option, we have the opportunity to enforce these positions and points section for section. Mrs Petrovic! It has always been suspected – you apologise, if I say so here – that you are not primarily concerned with the rights of the Austrians, that it is not about discussing constitutional provisions, but about once again, this time, about the path of this military power law, to criticise and also criminalise an institution, because you have here raised some very serious accusations against the Austrian federal army, which, in the end, by their achievements – we have put this out of dispute yesterday, at least with your group’s exception – you have made an indispensable contribution to the security of this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am sorry that we cannot at least produce this consensus in this House and also in Austrian political society and that it is still possible today – that was a few weeks ago – that a member of the country of the Greens, a former colleague of the MP Pilz, the Austrian federal army, the militarymen, Mrs Petrovic, disqualified! I recently had a fishing observation – there were also members of this house – in which 600 Austrians made their vows to protect and defend the Republic of Austria and the people with the weapon, if it has to be, and to use their health and their lives, including for you, for all of us. And how were these soldiers evaluated by these delegates? – She said: The soldiers, whose daily life is known: this bleak Im-Kreis-Laufen, stupid songs sing and drunken themselves in the canteen even more stupid to perform. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible! Unbelievable!]] The soldiers will be invited and seduced to drink – also known as this. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What's that got to do with the intelligence, ask. – This has to be done with the fact that we should agree that there should be no dispute that such qualifications of Austrians who have been employed by the State should not be permitted – neither for country officials nor for other public mandates. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Petrovic! I am also opposed to the enactments you made in your Preamble: that any opposition to the military by me – you have addressed the Federal Minister of State for Defence – should be monitored that freedom of thought and also freedom of expression have been given to the Ministry of Defense. Mrs Petrovic! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I am only obliged to do just one thing, namely the task given to me by the Austrian people, but also by the Austrian Parliament as Minister of Defense: to do everything possible to ensure that my institution fulfils the task it has given the federal constitution, namely to ensure the security and independence of the country both inside and outside. That's my job! That's what I feel obliged to do! You know it very well. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The security inside, that's not your job!]] Of course, the use of security police assistance – as you have quoted the Constitution today – is also a matter of security within. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Petrovic) She doesn't know anything! An unsuspecting woman! Completely unsuspecting!]] The Austrian Federal Army has a very important role to play here; Mrs Petrovic, you know that very well. In several hundred thousand hours of work, Austrian groundmen, who are said to sing and bluff only, have been working in the service of internal security, in the case of avalanche disasters, in the case of floods, for the Austrian population. That is what I mean by internal security, Mrs Petrovic! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have criticized the adoption of a military power law now. Mrs Petrovic! Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! You should actually be glad that now – at last! – the military powers are also placed on a legal basis. It was also the desire of former governments to finally regulate this area by law. One can discuss the various provisions, take a different position – you will have sufficient opportunity in the committees to explain this – but it is now clearly stated in this area. Not only the military services are now regulated, but also the issue of the use of weapons. You said an irregular use of weapons took place. On the contrary! Now is the use of weapons by guards – by guards, Mrs. Petrovic! – regulated by military properties, by analogy to the Security Police Act. A right to benefit has also been introduced so that it is also clearly regulated, as in the case of use – in case of use, Mrs. Petrovic, not in exercises, as was the case before – civil equipment and civil property can be used for military use. This is now finally regulated by law. I am very glad that this military power law has succeeded in adopting it in the Council of Ministers. Now it is in your hands to discuss this law as quickly as possible, but also very intensively, and I hope that this proposal will be put to a positive vote. With regard to the intelligence work, Mrs Petrovic, you always forget to say that the competences of the Defence Office and the Army News Office are limited exclusively to the military sector, to military security. The Heeres- Nachrichtenamt provides excellent services in obtaining information about abroad. We are grateful to God, for example, for the security of our troops in Kosovo, our soldiers in Kosovo, because we have a good picture of the situation in this region. The Defence Office is responsible for domestic military security, Mrs Petrovic. So there are no overlaps with the security police. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: What about the "mothers against nuclear hazards"?]] Since it is always depicted as if the activity succeeds a little in James Bond manner: Of course, I admit that if you want to put the federal army in a negative light, intelligence services are particularly suitable for that. There you always have the spy films in your ear and eye, in which some evil agents are chased with high-tech devices without any barriers. The reality is much simpler, Mrs Petrovic. You know it, and all those who have already asked questions and registered the answers of my predecessors know it too. This notification is carried out in a very conventional way. And if I judge this after my first impression, I notice: Each parliamentary club or the Austrian Press Agency has a better-ordered information system, a better archive – especially because it is fully electronic – than we still have in the area of our services. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, I now come to your questions. Questions 1 to 3, as is the case with critical monitoring, with the monitoring of critics and critics: On Question No 1, I would like to say that, on the one hand, criticism itself cannot be monitored and that on the other hand, we also do not intend to monitor critics of the Austrian federal army, for the intelligence work, Mrs Petrovic, refers exclusively to the case that it is assumed that criminal attacks against military goods will be expected. Everything else is archived with us quite normally as well as in every parliamentary club. That is, all the articles relevant to the ruler are archived, all relevant statements, whether positive or negative, are archived, but intelligence activity is only available if criminal attacks on military goods are deliberately threatened. You asked why such an army was an extraordinary thing. First of all, I believe that international disputing is that military institutions are a very special case, and secondly, Mrs Petrovic, you must already bear in mind the consequences of such attacks. You will agree with me that it makes sense to know in time that, if any group plans to attack a ammunition depot, plunder, make explosive attacks, and thus secure these army goods, and thus save people's lives many times. This is a useful activity, and it has nothing to do with it, Mrs Petrovic, to deal negatively with any charitative organizations or positive associations. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The "mothers against nuclear hazards" would have had terrible consequences?- Oh, my God!]] That is why, I believe, the answer to questions 2 and 3 is not sufficient. There are no staff to monitor critics, Mrs Petrovic. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: How did the act "Mothers against nuclear hazards" come about?]] Question 4: They have in this respect confirmed and criticised the explanations on § 20 of the Military Power Act. However, you have forgotten to say – also in your word message – that a quotation mark is set for these formulations. In the explanations of the law, the Judicature of the Data Protection Commission is involved, because we just wanted to be sure, because we wanted to rely clearly on an institution, as I believe, out of dispute, namely the Data Protection Commission. And this has, in the treatment of past cases of military powers, opened up these possibilities in a word identical way. But I say it again – I have already pointed this out –: All military-related information is archived. Message activities are only activated in criminal acts, but no actions are committed. You should also say that. If the Austrian Federal Army, if the Defense Office receives a customer from provenly intentional criminal acts, the security authorities are immediately informed of this and asked to take action in this regard. On the question 5, whether there are investigations against authors and journalists: The activity – I do not need to repeat what the intelligence service is all about – is particularly related to events, and therefore there are no own statistics on persons and groups of persons. On question 6: The S2 divisions are the organs of military security at the level of the troops. They are mainly responsible for the protection of property and the protection of persons, and they do not carry out investigations beyond this area. Question 7: I can also tell you that the wording of the Data Protection Commission has been implemented in a word-identical way, and I can repeat once again that all these measures are solely for military protection. And if you ask why "(political) groups" – politically stands between the Klam-mern – why in principle groups are observed or the activities are evaluated, I must say to you: There are in this country some institutions, private associations that make similar, the organizations that observe political groups, which apparently also store data about members of political parties, of political associations and then apparently use this data and information to confront these candidates, when it comes to candidate lists, publicly with the alleged or actual past or membership to such associations. I am not aware of any legal provision, Mrs Petrovic, which warrants such measures. The purpose of these provisions, the meaning of these measures, is quite simple to clarify military security. Let me give you a few examples: It is important for us to ensure that no one comes to the service of the Austrian federal army, whether as a basic defense minister or as a member of the army, who, for example, has belonged or belonged to an extremist organization. It is important for us – if, for example, I recall the use of the Austrian federal army on our border with the former Yugoslavia – to know whether an Austrian citizen has relationship relations in the crisis room, whether he belongs to an organization here in Austria, where the suspicion that the use of this soldier in this crisis room is dangerous or at least not targeting. These are the points to be examined here, Mrs Petrovic, and I think that is not only justified in the field of military security, but absolutely necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to give you some examples of what it is all about when e.g. leaflets or manuals are evaluated. There were in the past and unfortunately there are still groups – and I do not even need to use the findings of the Defense Office or other services or the State Police, all of which eventually became public – that not only acted and acted non-violently against the federal army, against the military national defense. And if there are manuals that provide instructions on how to prevent, for example, the flight of airspace surveillance aircraft – then the Dragons – which could ultimately lead, Mrs Petrovic, to the crash of these aircraft and the death of the pilots, it is militaryly relevant. But not so much so that you can then take action against the authors – I say it again: this is the case of the security police – but so that you can take precautions in good time that such an accident cannot happen. And if there is an institution, a group that announces and sets out measures against assistance on the Burgenian border, and if indeed military helicopters are shot with light ammunition by supposed peaceful demonstrators, which could also have led to the death of pilots, then it is militaryly relevant and then it is necessary to take precautions, then it is necessary to investigate such information in the sense of the life of our soldiers, but also the population who could have been pitied. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the question 8, about how many people resident in Austria there are files in the offices: To this end, I can tell you that, in principle, every project – but that is so in all public services – is kept in an act and is thus accompanied by a number of files. That's what the law dictates. However, these acts are not personal, but include, as has already been said, an award ceremony, service matters, whether anyone has requested insight into his act, activities, events and information about such things that I have just described. The total number of these documents was not questionable in the short time, but there will soon be a control committee in the area of national defence, in which we will provide the relevant information. They asked in question 9 whether the Greens and the Green Parliament Club were observed: I say again: Military intelligence, defence activities, i.e. actions would only be committed if members of the green club or the green club committed deliberate criminal acts. I do not assume that this will be the case at present or in the future, so I can answer this question with No. Ask in question 10 After that, how many members of the National Council are there: In the Army News Office there is an act in my mind, because there is a former member of the Army News Office in Parliament, and by means of the security review, an act is made on such staff. This is in the area of the Army News Office. In the field of defence, no investigations are being made on Members of the National Council, Mrs Petrovic! But there is, for example, an act about a watchman of the Miliz Scheibner, because I have provided a security information on a voluntary basis in the course of my military activity, as is usual for all military soldiers. I would also like to say once again: to the safety that we should all be obliged to do. This will ensure that no problematic persons are placed in the service of national defence. Within a short time, however, it has not been possible – I think it is also not useful – to explore how many militia soldiers there are in the National Council. I say it again: There are no own investigations on representatives of the National Council in the field of defence. In your questions 11 to 13, you want to know if the Austrian army has so-called IMSI-Catcher: These are devices that enable research into whether a mobile phone connection works in a certain area. I would remind you that we also had this problem in our News Control Committees, and I believe that such devices are available there too. But these IMSI-Catchers are from a better technical maturity, as I have been told, because now the number of the mobile phone used in this room is also available. But such IMSI-Catchers are not in service or property or in the use of the Austrian federal army. – Questions 12, 13 and 14. On Question 15, to the employees of the Federal Minister's Cabinet: I can give you the preliminary information that the cabinet of the Minister of Defence is not a political institution, but a military one. With one exception, I took over the entire cabinet of my predecessor. I didn't ask anyone about his political attitude. I know that all of these staff members, like all army members, have passed a security check on a voluntary basis, and none of these employees have any reason for exclusion, otherwise he would not have been hired to the Austrian federal army. Question 16: No. That is why the answer to question 17 is missing. Question 18: No. In this context, I would like to point out once again that, I believe, it should be our principle that everyone should and must comply with his political attitude, as far as it is moving in the democratic spectrum. I say it again: Although I have taken over all the employees, I have not asked anyone in my cabinet which political party he might be listening to, which political attitude he belongs to. That would be family-disability, and that is far away from me. I'm surprised you asked me such a question. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why the answer to question 19 is missing. In question 20, I have already given my opinion in my general remarks. I say it again: For me, as a former parliamentarian, but also as a minister of defence, it is important to allow for the widest possible and intensive debate on legislative instruments. Of course, I am willing to be present at all the dates that you, as a People's Representative, give me, and also to discuss the Military Power Act very intensively and in detail with experts. I believe that this should be in all our interest so that it is not possible in the future to put an institution in the grey area of the jurisdictions through a possibly false level of information, which in fact is only there to ensure the service of our soldiers as best as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9475	I would like to thank the Federal Minister. I ask you to understand that we need to solve a legal problem. Madam President, Mr Petrovic wishes to speak for an actual correction, but it is only possible during a debate. However, the statements made by the Federal Minister are outside the debate. I now declare that we are now going into the debate, with each club having a speaking time of 25 minutes and no speaker being allowed to speak for more than 10 minutes. I am not sure, however, Mrs Dr. Petrovic, if we did not allow years ago an actual correction to a statement by a member of the government on a urgent request. I would, however, like to examine this before making a decision. I'm asking for understanding. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I wondered at the time, but please!]] There is also no claim that the actual correction must be made immediately. If the examination is different, I could give the floor to the actual correction a little later. We are therefore going into the debate, as has been said. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Pilz. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9524	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I propose that we should go into the practice of security review or verification of reliability, as it may be called in the future. Thankfully, the Federal Minister explained one of the last questions: We also carried out a security check in the cabinet, where everyone went through. I would like to give some additional information so that we can take a look at the quality of these security checks in the cabinet. I begin by describing the political path of a person whose service has not begun in the cabinet of the Federal Minister for Defence. At the beginning of the 1990s, a certain Günther Enzendorfer was part of a group with clearly right-wing links, the so-called Siegfried Head Committee. This Siegfried Head Committee also belonged to a group of other people. All of them are in common: Their way of life led them almost simultaneously to the Freedom Party as well as to the Army News Office, and in both areas they performed remarkable activities. Enzendorfer became a member of the Liberal parliamentary club People's Group Conference, a member of the Secret Service Committee, and a number of others. ==References== In March 1992, he was stopped at the Slovenian border under the suspicion of wanting to bring 20,000 shots of machine gun ammunition illegally across the border. He also led a Glock-Pistole with eleven shot ammunition illegally with him. He was arrested by the Slovenian authorities and wanted to speak by telephone only to a single person, namely to a certain Mr Helmut Stubner, also a member of the Siegfried Head Committee, who in 1992, as later became known, was agent of the Army News Office with two special fields of activity: South Tyrol and former Yugoslavia, in particular Slovenia and Croatia. A South Tyrol prosecutor recently secured a hard disk that had been found in Stubner's possession, on which precise plans were recorded on the armament of so-called resistance and liberation groups in South Tyrol, Slovenia and Croatia. The context seemed to be clear to the security authorities at the time. The 20,000 shots of machine gun ammunition are very well suited to the plans of Enzendorfer's partners in the Siegfried Head Committee. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Did you ask Mrs Stoisits?]] The organization that was founded for this action was called the Austrian-Slovenian Society, and some other police-known right-wing extremists were members. Under the foreplay of great Austrian-Slovenian friendship, it even succeeded for a short time in winning highly respectable people of public life as members who, after the activities of this group became known, left this association again. ==References== On August 1, 1994, Enzendorfer was legally sentenced under the War Material Act. He took the judgment. There is a clear and judicial judgment of an Austrian court in relation to a law that is quite relevant to the German army, the military and the defence. Ladies and gentlemen! The trace of a person named Enzendorfer is lost towards the end of last year. A Günther Barnet appears in her place. Günther Enzendorfer married and took a different name. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I hope this is not a crime!]] Under this name, he is today a personal press representative of the Minister of Defence. It is a further way from the Siegfried Head Committee under a new name in the cabinet of the Minister of Defence. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Mansjagd is this!]] Günther Enzendorfer is not anyone. When the Austrian police found out about letter bombs in the Causa, she provided a long list of addresses for Austrian and international right-wing extremists and neo-Nazis during a house search. This list includes the head of the German neo-Nazis Ewald Althans, the cemetery barn Anderle, the right-wing extremists Drechsler and Dürr. On page 3 is already Günther Enzendorfer, but also MP to the National Council Harald Fischl. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Last-class!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] One page further reads the names of the Hungarian neo-Nazi leader Istvan Györkos, Gerd Honsik, Gottfried Kussel, Hans Georg Ley and many others. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are really funny! I thought you don't have a shame anymore, you have one!]] Tobias Portschy, Günther Reinthaler and Franz Radl, who have now been sentenced for re-activating, are also mentioned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you're an idiot, that's where I'm left!]] Helmut Stubner can also be found in this list, which was secured by the police and examined by the state police and found authentic. Now the Federal Minister for Defence has carried out a security check in the department. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I did not say that!]] May we now expect security checks to look so that in future there will be a place for people with a pre-punity under the War Material Act, close relations with right-wing extremists, relevant activities and appropriate links in the area of military intelligence services, despite security checks? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we have to talk to Fischl!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: What the GAK allows to take Fischl as President!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is the entire GAK right-wing extremist?]] Now I read in the explanations to the Military Power Act what the Minister actually wants. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It reads: In any event, a person is not to be considered reliable if he has been legally sentenced by a domestic court for certain crimes with military relevance. – The War Material Act is clearly a law with military relevance, and there is a judicial condemnation. [[Interference of Federal Minister Scheibner.]] Only the change in the name cannot be the problem. The Federal Minister could say: I didn't know Mr. Barnet was the former Mr. Entendorfer. But why did a meeting take place in the Federal Ministry of Defence in the early afternoon together with Mr Barnet a.k.a. Enzendorfer in preparation for this question? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: At the GAK!]] Why has Mr Barnet been quoted here after the Causa meeting? [[Abg. May. Trattner: Because of Fischl!]] What was discussed in the afternoon in the Federal Ministry of Defence and in the Cabinet? – Insecurity about uncertainty! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I am in favour of Fischl becoming GAK President again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's create additional security here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I am in favour of Fischl becoming GAK President again!]] I come to the conclusion: I am very concerned that the monitoring of this Republic's new intelligence law serves a clear political goal for critics of military national defence, critical journalists, people who do not think as the current head of the Federal Ministry of Defence, should now also – on a legal basis – become the crossroads of the military investigators. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As Fischl was GAK President, they would almost become masters!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are to blame that the GAK no longer wins!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is a very big problem here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are to blame that the GAK no longer wins!]] In contrast to the Federal Ministry of the Interior, whose state police are also subject to criminal proceedings and the order of the Austrian courts, the military intelligence services are organizations that obey completely different laws. The first draft of the Military Power Act, which unfortunately also contained a socially democratic manuscript, which was carried with a bad conscience, was still said to us: The serious situation will not occur that those from whom we should rightly protect this Republic politically will take over the head of the country's defence department and thus also the power over military intelligence services. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's exactly what happened, ladies and gentlemen. This case of urgency has occurred. We will often have an opportunity to deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9799	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9826	But I urge you to be vigilant on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, and to ensure that the Federal Minister's cabinet, even if a freeman is at the head of the department, does not provide persons with external links or persons with relevant pre-punity services. [[Federal Minister Scheibner:... People hunting!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9878	It was reported to me that at the presidential meeting of the 9th century. In May 1985 it was noted that actual corrections were also possible to answer a urgent request. Mrs Dr Petrovic, I would like to mention First of all, you are dealing with the facts to be corrected and then you are faced with the actual facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9905	High house! I am correcting the Federal Minister in two points. Mr Scheibner said that there were no files on members of this House, except for a former member of the service and his own person. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He didn't say that! He didn't say that! He didn't say that!]] I should like to make a point. Federal Minister Scheibner indeed: I have with my own eyes the copy of the file on Mrs Mag. Doris Pollet-Kammerlander saw, so that this act must have been very well established. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the untruth you claim!]] Second point: Mr Scheibner said that there would have been a justified commitment in connection with a rally directed against the first assistance of the German army on the Burgenian border in the summer of 1990. This was not justified – and this is legally expropriated. In connection with this notified rally, there was an executive commitment, which was directed against me, among other things. [[Abg. Young: Was this use in your farm or at the border?]] The proceedings against me – at the time I was not immune – have been brought to an end in law, but with my complaint against the Republic of Austria, I have completely defeated. In this context, the Republic of Austria had to replace my process costs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are they condemned for having a property disorder?]] – So much for the "truth content" of the statements of the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e9997	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10018	Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to repeat the following - other speakers of my group are likely to address Mr Pilz's speeches - the comments made by Mrs Petrovic: You, Mrs Petrovic, said that I would have answered wrong here because you knew it was about Mrs Mag. Pollet-Kammerlander gave an act in the defence department. On the one hand, Mrs Mag. Pollet-Kammerlander of my knowledge – perhaps something has changed recently – no member of this House. Secondly, I said that my knowledge in the army news office about a member of this house exists an act that I cannot say how it is in the defence office. If you had been listening to me, Mrs Petrovic, you would have heard that I told you that there was no investigation against Members of the National Council on the part of the Defence Office, but that I am assuming that, just as I myself, as a military soldier, I had to issue a questionnaire on security review, which also did all the other military soldiers belonging to this House, and then there will be an act on this questionnaire. I would be glad, Mrs Petrovic, if it were a lot of people who have also worked as Members of the National Council in the service of national defence. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The question was about the services! The question was about the services! Question 9 was addressed to the services! Then you answered the wrong thing!]] I subdivided into the Army News Office and the Army Defense Office. There's an act in the Army News Office; I can't give you the numbers from the Defense Office. If you do not want to understand this, Mrs Petrovic, this is just an indication that you do not ultimately want an objective discussion – and I regret it. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Deputy Pilz! I would like to make a very clear protest against your course of action. This urgent question should be addressed – I said in the first place that it is of course a legitimate concern to discuss it – as is the military power law, how the work of our intelligence services is regulated; that is your concern. But now in your speech of more than ten minutes you have used almost the entire speaking time to discredit one of my employees. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Excuse me...!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, I turn to the sharpest! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's unheard of!]] As it is, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues will be present; I do not want to extend this debate now. If anything remains open, Mr President, I shall of course speak again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10164	Mrs Petrovic spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10186	As the debate comes from the liberal club in connection with this question response to the level of "primitivling" and other expressions in intermediate calls, I urgently seek to cool down the moods for a short interruption and to convene a presidential one.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10210	A discussion contribution to business management: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10231	Mr President. I see no reason at all to interrupt the sitting because there is no such thing as this. I call for the call by Mr Edlinger, who has accused the Minister of "lying", as it should be in this House, to have called for an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10285	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10307	I believe that, because of this development, it is really necessary to hold a short presidential term in order to reflect and open it up. I would ask the President to grant this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10339	First of all, I feel quite able to continue this meeting. That is why I am not going to convene a President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I understood Mr Edlinger's call so much that he said it was either one or the other. In view of the fact that at the next presidential meeting we will talk about the fact that there was no call for order for expressions such as "Stalinist" "Linksfashist" and "Obervernäder" here, I will also examine this question only before I give a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When was that?]] Mr Gaál has now come to speak. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. May. Posch: (in the direction of Federal Minister Scheibner) Did you really answer the question 16? That's the question!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – If there is any further criticism of the Presidency, I will do what Mr Prinzhorn immediately did in criticizing his presidency, namely calling for an order. Mr Gaál, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10402	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! One can or cannot agree with Mr Pilz's statements. We know that he appears very spectacular and effective in public, presents himself in this way. One can be concerned about the form of different opinions, but the content that he has outlined today is very serious to take. [[Abg. Boy: Because he's right?]] - Right. Federal Minister! I don't think your speech can be understood as clarification. I would like to ask you for the following – and I would also ask for more information and information in the next few days on this question: Federal Minister! If I heard correctly, you answered Question 16 with a No. I therefore ask you to clarify whether you believe that the question has really been answered to the truth – or whether I and my colleagues have been questioned. Now back to the reason for this urgent question. Ladies and gentlemen! As much as we welcome the efforts to finally establish a legal basis for the military action of these services after decades of unwarranted state of military services, it must be said, Mr Federal Minister, that the present government proposal does not create a clear, clear and sufficient legal framework for this, because it systematically violates essential principles of law. For example, journalists can be restricted to their obligation to report. Personal controls can be carried out. And that bothered me as someone who had been in the security field for decades and also had very confidential functions, especially. It bothers me that people can be checked without giving any reasons. Only the assumption that a person would take a risk for the performance of the tasks and the military tasks, whatever they mean, is enough to do so. We have been working constructively and very hard with the then government partner for months in this draft law, and we have been working hard on it and dealing with it. Unfortunately, we have to find that, unfortunately, we have more powers, more rights of intervention, but not sufficient control. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are particularly concerned with our long-standing demand that the activities of military intelligence services not only be put on a legal basis, but above all that parliamentary control is strengthened and even more effective. But none of this is the case! Mr Scheibner, unfortunately you are not right to say that there is a clear separation between the military and the non-military sphere. That is why I would think that clarity must also be made. I would therefore like to say quite clearly: There is no need, and there is no need for a second intelligence service next to the State Police. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If allegations become loud that we are in principle rejecting this law, which we have repeatedly called for, these accusations are completely passed by the truth. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen: We are concerned that the military intelligence services are limited to clearly defined areas of responsibility, i.e. that the intelligence activities of the HNA, for example, are limited to the observation of the security situation abroad and that the work of the military defence is to take place exclusively within the Austrian federal army – and that it must end with the barracks gate. It is very easy to prevent a mixture of military and police tasks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! In your draft, there is no reliable demarcation to the security police. However, if it is not sufficient to distinguish between military and non-military areas, military services can still be identified against any Austrian, against any Austrian, hidden – also by means of the small noise attack, colleague Jung! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] You need to know this especially because of your professional past. It is also possible to record it – and we simply do not want to do so, Mr Jung! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our proposal was: In line with the German regulation, we have repeatedly held that a restriction on the number of persons to be determined must take place. By the way, we have repeatedly pointed out the powers of the security authorities that, if at all necessary, there must be an orderly and controlled side-by-side. – But that is not the case either. If one reads through the law – I have looked at it very carefully because I have been dealing with this matter for months – Mr. Federal Minister, one can see that this law bears very clearly the manuscript of the Austrian People's Party. That's where the small coalition partner has come through in full. You sit here today as an enforcement body and have to represent this law. This law is being whipped through by all the bodies of this House, Minister of State! You will never have the opportunity to discuss and discuss this with us in detail; there will not even be an addition. This is implemented as Mr Khol has repeatedly called for in discussions and discussions. Intensifications and deterioration have taken place. That is why I cannot win this law as usual, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since the "license to lie" is spoken of here, I must say: Unfortunately, this is really taken into account. There has already been complete dissent in the discussions between SPÖ and ÖVP. The EIA was there to have no restrictions; it advocated a comprehensive, hidden investigation of what has now been found in this draft. Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is incomprehensible that it is necessary for authorities to issue documents in order to deceive about the identity of a person. This is not even necessary in the area of organised crime, so there is no need either. [[Abg. Young: Have you never heard of "hidden investigation"?]] They really cannot provide any factual justification for this. Have you ever needed a wrong document? Have you ever had to appear as a doctor, a lawyer or a journalist in your work as a news man? – This is not necessary in the Republic of Austria! We don't need this "license to lie." [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intercession with the liberals.]] – I don’t want to be unfair, but in some people the certificate is not enough, they also have to perform beauty operations. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, to get serious again: There will be no agreement from us. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr Gaál! Can I ask you a question?]] Ladies and gentlemen! So there will be no restrictions on security checks by military intelligence services in the future. In my view, incomprehensiblely, there is no limitation of security checks only on military members and on military aspects. That's what we've been asking for over and over again. There is also no adequate data protection. [[Abg. Young: Mr Gaál! Do you really say that the Austrian police do not use different deck marks...! This is also a certificate!]] That is a huge difference, Mr President. That's where worlds separate us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These cover marks are also used in the military intelligence service today; on the other hand, there are no objections from us. But these legends that you now demand are not necessary, as there is no need for false documents. That's a huge difference, and if you say so, you don't grasp the depth of the police investigation. Ladies and gentlemen! There is also no adequate data protection. The law will permit the collection of data on persons to an unlimited and uncontrolled extent. – Such a flat-rate authorisation, which takes place with such a law, is totally contrary to the Data Protection Act. In addition, data can be passed on to third countries according to good thinking. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it must be said: This law opens the door to data abuse, and therefore there is strong resistance from us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There is also no adequate control over the intelligence services, because the legal protection officer has become, so to speak, a toothless tiger. In this context, we have repeatedly encouraged the establishment of a legal protection commission with a legal protection officer here in Parliament, with a sufficient number of alternates. - There won't be any of that either. Now, in the field of defence, the Legal Protection Officer is appointed by the responsible Head of Division, in the interior by the Minister of the Interior, by the Minister of Defence. So that's where the controller orders the controller himself. – This too is an incomprehensible procedure that cannot be accepted by us. Ladies and gentlemen! We were and are dealing with legal uncertainty in this very sensitive area. – However, this government template is not suitable for this! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] This does not create a clear and sufficient legal framework for the activities of military intelligence services. This draft is more than problematic; it cannot be used up to the population of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10564	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10579	This draft is unacceptable and does not agree with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10612	The next speaker is Mr Platter. Same time of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10634	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, I do not want to comment on Dr Pilz's contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Edlinger: I can imagine that!]] But the matter is strange, namely that a conspiracy theory is worked out when Mr Scheibner is discussing a question with a secretary. [[Abg. Oils: With what secretary?]] It seems a bit funny to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So I would like to deal with the content of this urgent question, but not with a particular subject, as Dr Pilz has done. I would also have been very disappointed if we had not been faced with an urgent request from the Greens under the military power law. But I am very happy to comment on this urgent request on behalf of the Austrian People's Party, because it also gives the opportunity to express the importance and importance of the Army News Office and the Office of Defense. For you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, these services are an oppositional, a red cloth – services that supposedly do terrible work. For us of the ÖVP, on the other hand, these services are an extremely important institution, which carries out its activities within the framework of the comprehensive national defence provided for in Articles 9a and 79 of the Federal Constitutional Act. And these tasks, ladies and gentlemen, are carried out in an excellent way. In the course of this debate, I would also like to express my thanks to the officials of the Army News Office and the Office of Defense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that these two services do excellent work, for example, that the HNA obtains information abroad, so that a security assessment can be carried out so that a situation assessment can be carried out for the Balkans, for example, in order to ensure preventive protection for our Austrian troops in Kosovo, for example, there are documents from the Army News Office, in which the types of mines are announced. Ladies and gentlemen! For our soldiers, I am glad that these tasks are carried out by the Army News Office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, it is also extremely important that the Office ensure the federal army's own protection that military security is ensured in Austria. This is the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: They are talking about a surveillance state – and I am talking about very important institutions for the security of our country, institutions that are indispensable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a legitimate right for these services to know that these services are interested in certain actions against national defence, such as the Draken demonstration, which has resulted in an explosive attack. This is thanks to God, but a barracks fence has been damaged. By the way: When I think of this Dragon demonstration, I have to say that there was a Dr. Pilz who made a few statements about it. I think that was on the 29th. ==References====External links== Dr. Pilz – listen! – said: Not those who want to demonstrate nonviolently against the stationing of the Dragons at Thalerhof or in tentway are terrorists. The true terrorists sit in Vienna in the Ministry of Defence. - So Dr. Pilz back then. Only so that you can make a picture of what Dr. Pilz thinks in this matter. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the two services have carried out their tasks within the framework of the Federal Constitution pursuant to Articles 9a and 79 and the Minister has also adopted necessary regulations. The military power law, which is now in place for parliamentary treatment, is actually the legal overcompensation to these current regulations. The tasks and powers are clearly and clearly regulated by law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! No additional powers shall be conferred on these services by the proposed legal measure. On the contrary: Legal protection is established. We already have a number of control bodies, such as the Standing Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee. There is also the Data Protection Commission, with the Army News Office and the Defense Office in 1994 publicly examined by the Data Protection Commission and no complaints were found. We have control bodies, such as the Federal Army Commission and the People's Procuratorate – and now we also have a legal protection officer in comparison to the Security Police Act, because we have a very special role to play in the control possibilities of the military intelligence service. That's the point. This is now being introduced with this legal measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say: There has been nothing to hide in the past, not in the present – and in the future it will not be the case precisely by this legal measure that something will be hidden, except, ladies and gentlemen, the source protection. I have to say this clearly: It is essential that those who provide information also have appropriate protection. And on top of that: If there were no source protection in the future, then of course the informers would get away from the Army News Office and the Defense Office. That is why I think this is a very important matter. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! I'll tell you what I'm actually wondering: When I read this urgent question, I found that on all your points, you have not asked anything on the subject of legal protection officers at all, no question about it. Either you didn't read it through, or you pulled out an old shopkeeper from the bottom drawer. On the subject of legal protection, it is clear that this is a constitutional matter: In the area of freedom of guidance, in the field of ordering, but also in the field of confidentiality, it was clearly examined and found that the Constitution was in conformity. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Freedom of expression is extremely important in a democracy. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, believe that we have a surveillance state. They believe that the federal army should be abolished. They want to pursue a policy of disobedience, as Dr. Pilz once said. They call for refusal of command, as Dr. Pilz made it. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, reject any kind of law and order in our state. On the other hand, we of the ÖVP and this coalition believe that it is the highest good thing that our citizens and our guests can live in freedom and security in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for facilities to take care of this. The Army News Office and the Defense Office are those institutions that also ensure that we can live in freedom, peace and security. And I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10733	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10754	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Toni Gaál, when you listen to you, you have the impression that you believe that the law is already being discussed. - That's not why it's happening today. This is a urgent request from the second opposition group here in the house. It's not about the law at all. I very much appreciate your remarks. I've been very careful, attentively I've recorded everything, but: You were the wrong steamer. This isn't the event you actually wanted to talk to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now to you, Minister Edlinger. I know we two are related in some form, I just haven't pushed up yet, like, but we have some common great-grandmother. I do not think anything less than criticise the President-in-Office of the Council. I can't and of course I don't. But we two agree that at least you lied to a Member of this House. Which one this is, you left open. You said: One lies. I'm not crazy. [[Abg. Edlinger: No! I asked the question! I asked the question!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – He said either mushroom lies, or it lies discord, a parliamentarian, or a minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not criticise Mr President's decision, which deserves a lot of respect. But we two know that you lied to one of two men present. We want to have it used once. – Should anyone find out about my formulations, they have been unthinkable in this mildness. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also surprised at the way in which a group, namely the Greens, is so panicously afraid of a monitoring body. I respect what Toni Gaál said to the Social Democrats. These are legal concerns, these are organisational, these are state concerns. But this deep-seated fear you're seeing that someone might look at you in the cards, that's something that really upsets me. Whoever fears so much must, I think, have something to hide. And if I look at some newspaper, I know what. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have had to crash everything from my intended speech. I had a very constructive speech prepared. But my previous speakers gave me so much opportunity to say different things. First of all, I want to deal with the things that have been assigned to me in the last few minutes, such as the service card of Günther Barnet, earlier he called Enzendorfer, I was at his wedding. It wasn't a secret event, it was a great wedding in Marchfeld. Service ID Günther Barnet, Contracting Officer – who? Mr. Federal Minister for State Defense? The Federal Ministry of Defence? – No, Parliament! He's a parliament official. The Parliament was therefore responsible for all the examinations, and it is for Parliament that it has carried out the facts according to the examinations, but all the shots are not only going to be empty, but into your own knees, if you want to pick up something on the piece of stuff with it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Greens) You must address the urgent ones to the President of the National Council!]] Or: the Austrian-Slovenian Society. I'm glad I couldn't join at the time, as I wanted. I reported to a big event at the credit institution's Oktogon. I wanted to join, but I never got a confirmation. I was offended. – In the meantime I am happy about it, for who knows what has been done from it! I am now reading the list of founding members in the first place. – Obviously, you want to present it from your side as if there was also a conspirative union at work: Terezija Stoisits, Marijana Grandits, Andreas Wabl, Karel Smolle, Dieter Antoni, Erhard Busek. [[Cheerfulness and oh-noise with the liberals and the ÖVP according to every name.]] – Mock is there too, but I don't really think he's a terrorist. You have to say that. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with all political groups.]] Mr Pilz has also quoted it from the draft government proposal, especially § 23. I want to save you from reading it differently, that is, the way it really stands in it. That too has been misquoted! So there, too, he bent it down where he needed it or believed he could need it. But that was the way it was. Günther Barnet, born Enzendorfer, has also not been sentenced for a few thousand shot ammunition. It is true, however, that he has already led and won two press processes on this issue. That's all an old hat! But you trust that we all have a short memory or more essential things in mind. Two processes have been won after my information, one against the "profile". – I didn’t represent him; it will have been a professional. One has been won against the "profile", so I hear, and one against the "standard". So you didn't even think of anything new, I have to say. [[Deputies Dr. Pilz and Oillinger: Has he been sentenced or not?]] I would like to address a few other statements made by my previous speakers. First, one of the speakers explained that she did not understand at all the difference in "mothers against nuclear hazards" being equipped on the one hand with less rights than government services on the other. I understand, because above all, the state is protecting with its services. It is therefore necessary to provide the State and the services it operates with special rights in order to allow it to exercise, with these services and through these services, the protection of all others, including the "mothers against nuclear hazards" as individuals and as a group, in a sustainable manner. That's the difference. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not at all intend to have as much rights as a service. I told you once that they can always stop me as long as they don't reveal all the results of my wife. – With progressive age, however, this is already uninteresting. Now they can tell my wife everything. [[General hustle and bustle.]] But if you really have nothing to hide, you don't have to be afraid of in this sector either. Somewhere in the request is also said that the evaluation of magazines and the investigation of authors was something so scary. – So I assume that it is not the presumptuous legislator, who may be that then in some time, that it is not about sharpening the "Wiener Zeitung" or the like. But if I keep in mind leaves like the "TATBlatt" or "Akim" – you can read that at any time – and if I think of Ebergassing with all the donors and with all the contexts that it has given, I can imagine what the authors of this draft meant: not the church leaf, the church leaf not a confession, but those leaves that have been stood and brought into close association with criminal acts. Remember Ebergassing! But just as we forget the processes, you might forget the Ebergassing affair. - Not me! But the luck was then that the Lord God did not sleep. It didn't come to blast the masts. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has come about that the two perpetrators have been judged – by themselves before the act. – In this context, I only say one thing: "TATBlatt". A present... – Listen, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who are you talking to?- Oh, my God!]] I'm talking loud and clear enough. You'll hear it, and you'll get it. I let myself say something, too. I am very concerned about Parliament's rights and the rights of parliamentarians, and it has torn me and I have said: What, all this is to be whipped through at a brief meeting of the National Defence Committee? That can't be! I asked the Chairman of the Committee. It's not like that either. A meeting of a duration of six to seven hours is planned for a general debate, and then another session of approximately the same duration for a special debate or what is still happening – with the help of experts. It's not everywhere. – So this is by no means broken over the knee; it is by no means passed over. Whoever has a good conscience doesn't need to be afraid. There is no doubt that constructive contributions to an arrondment can still be made in the committees and also in the plenary. – So much about this problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10915	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e10956	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am doing the same thing as Mr Ofner: I too have to change my speech concept completely. In fact, I intended to start by telling you a little more about the fact that my colleague Pilz has begun, namely the fact – of the irrefutable fact! – that Mr. Stubner was a business partner, a friend of Mr. Enzendorfer, saying Barnet, that Mr. Stubner was not only working in Croatia and Slovenia in a variety of ways, but also in South Tyrol, and that, according to a woman named Eva Klotz, you – some of you, I suppose – will also know where he has become introduced, he has tried to build a "security device" as he called it, for the South Tyrol liberation movements. This is the activity of the business partner and friend of the Secretary of State. This business activity of Mr Stubner, which he obviously continued to operate in Croatia with Mr Entendorfer, has led to the fact that in Italy, South Tyrol, news magazines have reported in detail that the Italian justice has launched investigations against Mr Stubner, whom, as in Austria, he obviously withdrew by submersion. In Austria, this development has led to – beware, Mr Fischl! – that in the course of a very intensive press release, Mr Stubner has carried out this activity in South Tyrol on behalf of or with knowledge of the Army News Office. I emphasize: in South Tyrol! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] And it turned out that after these facts became known, the state police brought an ad against the head, the chief of the army news office. [[Abg. Young: And what has become of it?]] ==References====External links== January 1996 reported: "In the Army News Office, an uncontrollable agent group is suspected." - Quote. And this is where Mr Jung needs to be careful, because he is also called in connection with this "uncontrollable group of agents". But it is even more in this "Kurier" contribution, Mr. Federal Minister. And I would like to quote from that, even though I would like to come back to the questions to you. That is because in connection with this uncontrollable group of agents and the activities of the HNAA: "In the country, the Stapo has been observing activities of foreign sniffers for years." Bracket on: It's HNAA. Close it. "For example, Lisbeth Aumann, an investigative judge at the Causa Örlikon–Lichal, was incarcerated in 1990." – I emphasize: a judge was incarcerated by the Army News Office. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: Say the report!]] – "Or Stapo or Defense Office will be in question. So the suspicion is on HNAA." And by the way, it says: "In July 1993 the Stapo reviewed the company union of a Styrian FPÖ member", "the conspicuous relationship with Croatia maintained." [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I knew it was the GAK! The GAK was a conspirator!]] – Another Croatia connection! – "When the officials at the magistrate in Fürstenfeld wanted to find out, they came up with surprise: You've only been there in this thing! But it was HNAA agents. They have service marks that are deceptively similar to those of the executive." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! There is much else to be said about these reports. But let us turn to the questions that have been raised to you, Mr Federal Minister, in the context of this urgent question, and which have been partially answered by you – knowingly or ignorantly, I dare not to judge that, and therefore I repeat some of these questions – not or incorrectly answered. Federal Minister! How can you ask the question 2: Which services or offices should be responsible for the monitoring of the critics?, so that there is no monitoring of critics if at any larger demonstration, which only somehow has anything to do with the federal army, there is anything to do with military, film troops, video troops from one of your intelligence services are on their way to film the demonstrators? – That, I think, is verifiable. Federal Minister! How can you answer question 9 or question 10 with a no and say there are no investigations, and then add in the statement that Mrs Doris Pollet-Kammerlander is not an active national councillor and therefore you have not mentioned it in this context, while the question 9 refers to the Greens and the Parliament club? At the same time, in the context of an information sheet, an act is being made on everyone who performs his service in the framework of the militia, well-knowing – I think, you know – that Members Doris Pollet-Kammerlander never worked in the military service! Federal Minister! I now come to speak to my person. I know about me from your intelligence services. I am an active Member and would like to inform you about whether data has been provided by one of your intelligence services from my current or previous activity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're not that important at all!]] And if you don't answer this question as I know you have to answer it, with a yes, then have You said the untruth here! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Do you have a bad conscience?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did you do?]] I come to further questions, Mr Federal Minister. To question 17 you answer, no, there is no person against which there is a conviction for any offence. . We know, and there is no point in changing the beautiful speech attempts of Mr Ofner! There is a legal conviction against Mr. Barnet a.k.a. Enzendorfer under the War Materials Act. There are these, and you come here to this government bank, here before Parliament and say: I don't have an employee who's been sentenced. - What's the matter? Is he your employee, yes or no? Mr. Ofner offers us a remarkable statement: Mr Barnet is not a member of the Minister at all, but Mr Barnet aka Enzendorfer is a member of the parliamentary club of the Freemans. – Don't you have a problem? – Parliament, even better. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Don't you get that?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The boss is behind you! The president is his boss!]] We have a personal press officer from the Federal Minister. Who is he now working for? Who paid for him? [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: Mr Fischer! Otherwise you won't be so helpless!]] Is he therefore deprived of control by the so active defence services? Does he withdraw himself because, of course, if he were a staff member, would he have to have a check that he was sentenced to criminal law? Minister! Reply You're the one who said this. What is he now? Is he your employee? Is he the employee of Mr. Fischer? Is he the employee of the liberal club? Or what do we have for an employee? Above all, tell us: Is he pre-punished, yes or no? And if it is pre-punished, then you have the obligation to tell Parliament that either knowingly or ignorantly you have said the untruth that you did not know it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to answer that. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: He is not prepunished!]] - He's not pre-punished, tell me. But condemned. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: He is not prepunished!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: First of all, he is a human being! Take note of this!]] I put the question once again, as she says here: Is he condemned? – That was to answer. Let's get away from the question of whether he's pre-punished. Is he condemned: yes or no, Mr. Federal Minister? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] I would like to raise my question on this core, because if you give a different answer here, Mr Federal Minister, then you are ready to resign.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11188	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. The clock is set to 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11211	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I somehow got the impression from the last contributions to the debate – and this is now an appeal to the ÖVP in particular – that we are perhaps not quite clear about the situation, about what we are discussing here and what has happened here in the last few minutes. We have heard from Mr Pilz a statement which was a little more than just a statement. There is a list here – and this is also part of the protocol – on which names are mentioned. This list was ensured in the investigation against Wheel, against Neonazi Radl, and there are names on that list. I think there is now something like a beer tent mentality here, and you have seen yourself in Mr Ofner's speech – which I don't want to comment on in order not to wake up the matter – to react accordingly. [[Abg. Fischl: You must not be surprised at these contributions, Mr Commissioner!]] I am not saying now that, by this kind of reaction, we are in a certain position to the people present here, because I believe that this is not the way in which a Parliament, which should work intellectually, should react to such an incident. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a list here – and I may ask you, Minister, in particular, to ask you to be aware of the seriousness of the situation – in which there is nothing else but that under a number of other well-known, condemned neo-Nazis is also Mr Enzendorfer, who is not anyone but who is listed as the secretary of the Federal Minister. – I can’t judge if that’s true, whether it’s right or wrong. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We can't judge it, but we bring it in, we follow!]] Mr Westenthaler, you should not say anything. You are the one who works most with emotions, who is least interested in an objective discussion and who has waged an election campaign in Vienna, which is a shame to this country, which has led a campaign of elections that has now brought us the problems across Europe! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You should be very quiet, because you're these arsons...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11263	Mr Jarolim! That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11279	I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11303	Mr. Jarolim, that's not how it is! Now I have to say the following about calming down and reconnaissing: Mr Enzendorfer was, as far as I know, an employee of a member of the Bureau, from the Bureau. That's why there's a personal record, and I'll look at it all. I assume, however, that the conditions for being employed by the Third President as a staff were met because that was safely reviewed. So if the question is always asked: How's that? And: Is he in Parliament's management or where? – Yes, he was an employee of the Third President. Each President selects his staff, but this staff will also be properly examined to see if there are any legal requirements for a job. Please let me make this statement. By the way, Mr Jarolim, I would just like to add the 30 seconds that I have just claimed, and I ask for an objective continuation of the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11327	Mr President. I take note of that. My criticism was against the fact that we should not deal with this accusation, which has also been set aside, as has been the case. I would have expected the Federal Minister to comment on this – you still have these possibilities, and I think you will also use them. In any case, I would ask you to give an opinion because this is more than a party-political debate, because that is one of the issues where we have to be properly assessed on the European stage, how we deal with these issues. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, it is also unworthy to cover this simply now, by taking place here on explanations out loud and clear – Mr Ofner, please allow me to say that – which, I believe, do not really correspond to the importance of this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let us be aware that the discussion about this problem, which is happening here, is at least a matter of concern and that we should not deal with it in an everyday manner. I am just saying more because, in view of the circumstances surrounding this subject, I no longer want to say too much, some sentences to the Military Power Act. It is terrifying that the whole thing is in an overall context that lets you shudder. You have said here today, even Mr Platter of the ÖVP, that you do not understand why much has not been done in the debates on this law, which I believe is far from the rule of law. I am also interested in discussing matters here, and we also benefit from this possibility. But I would have expected that the draft law, which has been introduced, does not contain many of the points that are now in it. They have said that there is no contribution to the legal protection authorities, and it has also been found a system that is perfectly in order. I would like to point out that the legal protection officer is one of the central bodies in this law, so I can follow you. With regard to this law, there is a wealth of accusations that, in a way, regulations are being dealt with here, the ones who do not want to use them kindly – and that is something that should be taken into account – leave a margin that should not be possible in a rule of law. In this respect, the legal protection officer is given increased importance. It is simply not necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, for you to order this legal protection officer, who is supposed to be beyond any accusation of partyity, especially by the Minister in whose ministry all this is located. What does it say that someone else is ordering this legal protection officer? Ladies and gentlemen! There is a wealth of provisions in this law, which in an absolutely unbearable way allow research, conduct of research, in which those concerned do not even know anything about it after that. There are provisions that data that have been provided should not be destroyed. And we have a legal protection officer who is not one. I ask you to: At least in this area, show that You are interested in the fact that this military power law is more than what we are currently suspected of, namely, a pure incarnation law! I can conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen: I believe that the democratic values of this state are more at risk than many of us might believe. In this respect, I would ask you to deal with this debate properly, Mr Federal Minister, in the context of the whole one you are always calling for. I would ask you to ask me to deal with this in such a way that political parties do not necessarily have to take further consequences! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11394	For the word "brand pens", as in a similar case, I give a call for order and ask for moderation! I therefore give the call for order because, in similar cases, I give order calls – and stick to them. Mrs Petrovic has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11426	Mr President. High house! Mr Edlinger said that if one makes the claim A, the other non-A, then one of them must be wrong. Therefore, once again in all form the question – and the question was clear, and it has already been answered anyway. It was not asked for pre-punity, it was asked for condemnation, as it is also stated in § 23 of the draft: Is there such a condemnation for a militaryly relevant law? Are there links to right-wing extreme groups? – It would be interesting to know that. In addition, Mr. Enzendorfer and Barnet have been following my information since the 7th century. February assigned to the service, i.e. to perform his service in your place of business. That is why Mr Ofner's statement was incorrect and not in line with the facts. Secondly, They did not face it –: My question was about the "mothers against nuclear hazards" or the preference of corporate interests, such as the atom-spart of Siemens. In all forms: Is it really true that ecological citizens' initiatives are more dangerous than companies that are setting up cross-border nuclear power stations? Or: What about the alleged anti-atomic policy of the Federal Government if you make common cause with these groups against the citizens' initiatives? [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: It has been said the untruth!]] It has been said the untruth; I hold it. And the question 10 was also clearly formulated. We did not ask for a service, the army intelligence service or defence service, but we asked for both. And if, therefore, you only give an answer, it is incomplete and would, for example, be classified as false in a court. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And one last thing was said to this house in every form: The argument that someone who has nothing to hide does not need to fear an intervention into fundamental rights is about the worst thing you can say in a rule of law, and I am really shocked when that says a lawyer. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] 1862: Law on the Protection of House Law, Law on the Protection of Personal Freedom: 1867. For this, people have died, MEPs in this House have committed themselves to that, there are fundamental rights and there are restrictions on state power. If you question this, it is actually an element of a state that can no longer be called the rule of law – and that would be terrible!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11495	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11516	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! I'm coming back to this military power law. If I follow this debate here today, if I follow up on how to deal with serious issues, I am afraid. If you are studying this military power law, you have the impression on the one hand that Austria is only surrounded by host country, and on the other hand that this ÖVP/FPÖ government has massive distrust of its own population. Ladies and gentlemen! This law fits into a government which, since it was in power, has split the country inside and isolated to the outside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Is this the democratic package that you promised in the Austrian people's government agreement, namely that you listen, listen, sharpen, dent – and all without the necessary legal safeguards?- Oh, my God! This law reminds us of a state of surveillance, and against it we defend ourselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Is this the "citizen society" proposed by Dr. Khol, in which data on unspoiled citizens can be collected, stored and passed on completely and uncontrolled, including abroad, without obligation to communicate to those concerned and without obligation to provide information to those concerned? Thus, the data abuse door and gate are open. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] The security checks are far too far too far, Mr Minister, not limited to military members and purely military aspects, but also to the civilian population. These measures, which are to be put in place in the future, are the ones that scare many citizens in our country – and on the other hand, we will defend ourselves with all democratic means! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This army news law does not give a reliable distinction between what the security police are allowed to do and what the army intelligence service is doing. This law makes military intelligence a second state police force. I wonder if we need this in Austria in 2000, whether we really need it in a highly developed democratic country, that our citizens may be monitored by two intelligence services, namely the security police and the military intelligence service. There are two more points that are very worrying. In contrast to other countries, there is no control over the budgets of the intelligence service as always. The budget of the army intelligence service does not need to be indicated. Mr Minister, you said that this law is being discussed only, is still being discussed in the committees. Federal Minister! In particular, this budget must also be subject to democratic control by Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And a second point: It is also a paradox that the Ministers of Justice appoints graces, because all those who have to do with the right on account of their profession are excluded from this activity. We therefore call for a separate Commission on Legal Protection, which is also set up by Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This presentation, as we find it here, is a point of reference for the citizens of this country, and I hope that much remains to be done in the committees in order to prevent the worst of this rule of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11594	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11615	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Today, at the end of the first plenary week of the budget negotiations, we are experiencing a differentiation campaign launched by the Greens against various members of this House; for example, in the morning I was on the row – the allegation is ultimately broken like a soap bubble – and this afternoon it was the Minister and also Günther Barnet or former Enzendorfer. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's a strange "seif bubble"!]] I would like to, because I have now looked at this carefully and also made myself aware of Question 16, where the accusation of lies still stands in the room, which has not yet been taken back – in no direction! - try a correct position. I do not know, however, whether this makes sense at all, because we are used to the fact that allegations, which are self-contained, are being carried on again and again. You obviously already believe your own propaganda, and that is always dangerous – let me say that – because your own propaganda is often wrong. As to whether Mr Scheibner employs an employee in the cabinet who has been sentenced for the violation of militaryly relevant laws, I would like to say that there was neither a procedure nor a procedure within the meaning of § 23 Military Power Act, which is neither in force nor in force, but which lists acts, and this is the content. [[Abg. Oillingers: Then there can't be that either!]] But you ask the question yourself so; They ask the question in this direction. There is no procedure – and there was no procedure. That's fact! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The second fact is that there has also been a politically motivated procedure before the Landesgericht für Präsidenten Graz for the smuggling of 20,000 shot ammunition. [[Abg. Oillinger: "Politic Motivated"?]] I'll tell you: This procedure ended with a legal admissibility. Take note of this! The accusation of the smuggling ended with a rightful acquittal! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think we owe it to our democracy and the rule of law that we also respect legal judgments in this country – even if it does not fit in with you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true in this case either!]] Then I personally checked myself and took into consideration the criminal card of the Günter Barnet, and I can tell you from the speaker's desk that this criminal card is empty or, as the folks say, that it is insolent. Now I ask you finally to take note of this, to stop the distortions and to let people do their work! Or I'm asking about this place: What is your politically motivated goal when you defamate people? Do you want to push these people out of society? Can there be no room for them? This morning, you started the political attempt to force a father of three children out of the public. That's what you've failed to do. Stop hunting people! I would ask you from this point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11711	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11732	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As a minister, I cannot, of course, join the drastic words of my previous speaker, but I am nevertheless concerned about how to deal with an employee, a contractual servant of the federal government, with an employee who – no matter how one defines the term "employed" – has already had a review as a contractual servant of Parliament and who is now working in my cabinet, whether one sees it as "employed" within the meaning of the law or not. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Ofer is trying this!]] You have also kept him, Mr Pilz, the name change, namely that he wanted to cover up something with this name change. – Even that, I believe, does not correspond to the habits that you have always shown in recent times when it was about the questions of the right of name. I really think this is discriminatory. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Pilz, accused this employee of belonging to an action committee called Siegfriedskopf, and this action committee was "right-wing-extreme". - You know what it's all about. It is about the "Siegfriedskopf", which represents a monument in the aula of the University of Vienna, which has tried to eliminate various groups. This monument is still in its place. So I don't think you can talk about an unfair activity of Mr Barnet. Slovenian society has already been addressed. – What to throw Do you propose to an employee, an official of the public service, who does not have the opportunity to defend himself here from the speaker's desk? You are immune, he can't even take criminal action against you, he can't explain whether he's a member of a company or not, I don't even know if he's still a member of this society, who's also a member and a member of your club. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is he condemned? Is he legally condemned?]] Mr Pilz! They then accuse him that his name appeared in a list of addresses found in a search of the house in any extreme right. – Do you know on which address lists do you appear, Mr. Pilz? There have also been discussions in the past about whether there are cross-links between you and other members of the Green and extremist groups. That's where you kept saying: We cannot know where we appear everywhere, we cannot see into a person who has put these actions. I don't know which address lists my name appears on. Perhaps also on an address list of the KPÖ, because for a time I received the "people's voice" when it was still given – without my voice. I am sure you will believe this, Mr Pilz. Now on the issue of criminal assessment: There too, I think, you should consider what legal property is affected by man. If we also talk about the fact that some of the principles of the rule of law may not have to be applied to politicians as a whole, that if someone who is public has to impose other criteria and impose other assessments, this should not apply to individuals, even if they are in a close relationship with a political party or a public institution. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is he condemned or not?]] Now, Mr Pilz, I would like to say quite clearly to you once again: You have asked, as has been stated in your request, whether there has been a review within the meaning of § 23 of the Military Power Act. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: No, that was not the question!]] I'll read it to you exactly: "16. In the explanations to § 23 military authority it is stated: ‘If not reliable, a person shall be deemed to have been legally sentenced by a domestic court for certain criminal offences with military relevance.’ Are you employed in your cabinet who have been sentenced for the violation of militaryly relevant laws?" They have accused Mr Barnet of having been legally sentenced for arms smuggling. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - He's been acquitted. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is the untruth!]] You have accused him, Mr Pilz, under the cover of immunity of a crime for which he was legally acquitted; he has also won two media processes in connection with the smuggling of arms, Mr Pilz. And if you look at the facts contained in the Military Power Act, Mr. Pilz... [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Is he condemned or not?]] Mr Pilz! Let me also answer! Not every answer you do not like is not an answer or a wrong answer! And I'll tell you again... [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Has it been condemned?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) sit! Let's go!]] All employees in my cabinet have been checked for security, and there have been no objections. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Has it been condemned?]] And there are no problems either with regard to the facts of the § 23 Military Power Act. Nor is Mr Barnet prepunished. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This answer has so short legs!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) sit!]] I say quite frankly to you: For any other answer, even if I disregarded your reference to § 23, I myself, who I am not immune, would be in conflict with the criminal law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11951	Mr Van der Bellen spoke next. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e11983	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I have you in good memory as a representative of the Freedom Party here in these ranks and as a clubman. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can't claim that!]] [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] As Minister after a short three-month term in office, I ask you: Why do it? You do? Clear questions have been asked, and you either do not answer them at all or with excuses or with semantic descriptions that lead you astray for the longest time, or wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't let the fungus influence you!]] [[Abg. Fischl: He's got the gas canister in his hand again!]] Question 10 was clear: "How many members of the National Council are there files in the Defense Office or in the Military News Office?" – No, the Doris Pollet-Kammerlander file, for example, which I know myself, did not happen. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I answered that clearly too!]] Even if you assume that you have only taken into account active members of the National Council: Member Karl Oellinger believes that there is an act about him. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The time was too short!]] Either you are misinformed by your officials – or you have knowingly misinformed us. And the question 16, Mr Minister, turn and turn until you do. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And you're accusing until you believe it's true!]] "Do you employ in your cabinet staff who have been sentenced for the violation of militaryly relevant laws?" was the clear and clear question. They answer: No, there is no one who is pre-punished. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] That wasn't the question. They said there was no one who had been sentenced for smuggling, the smuggling of this 20,000 shot ammunition, or how much it was. – But that was not the question. Mr. Enzendorfer himself writes in his local position in the "profile" of the 15th century. Finally, in May 1995: "In fact, Mr. Enzendorfer was simply sentenced to a conditional fine," he says. – "because in March 1992 he opposed a regulation of the Federal Government to his civil weapon..."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12104	Your speaking time is exhausted. Please put to the conclusion, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12119	That is the final point, Mr President. "... and civil ammunition, namely a fist firearm with 11 shot ammunition, carried to the territory of the former SFR Yugoslavia and thereby acted against a ban imposed by the War Materials Act." He says he's condemned.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12155	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Short debate on the reply to the question 378/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12177	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 378/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General, should not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Mayer as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12211	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We have already feared that Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann will be taking part in this debate today, after a liberal federal council called the civilians "Civil Civil Service". We are glad that Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann is not here because this is a serious issue that we have to deal with today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The answer we received from the Federal Minister for the Interior, my dear friends, Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply wrong. The information is constitutionally worrying. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the policy of blue-black – and I am already referring to the government programme – you can see the importance of civil service, its agencies in your party policy. In the Government Pact, read in the chapter "Bundesheer" under "Measures", "Point 2": "The decision-making bases for the transformation of the federal army into a volunteer army with a strong military component must be prepared." Among other things, we are talking about an evaluation of the impact on civil service and the labour market. – Otherwise, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is no word in it about civil service. This already suggests a traditionally disturbed relationship between the Austrian People's Party and the Freedom Party to civil service, namely as a competition with the German army. There was a press conference today: "100 days of government: The record of the head of government". – I took the time and read through the APA message, and in it I found a remarkable sentence, my ladies and gentlemen. In this it says: "Government work focuses on social justice, thinking in conjunction and on object-oriented solutions in the interests of society as a whole." Allow me to say, as measured by civil service policy, that is different: Government work puts injustice, isolated thinking, chaotic solutions in the interests of the party policy of the Blue-Black Unity Party in the foreground. – This is the reality, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What happened now? – Under the guise of the so-called budget consolidation or, as the Federal Minister for the Interior has formulated, "to take account of the government's sparse mind", this scandalous change of civil service law and other measures came about. The number of civil services was reduced by June of this year from 1,709 to 1,124, the replacement fee to 43 p. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Freedom Party! Today I took the menu from the cafeteria and asked myself on the basis of which: What could a civil servant really afford to do here? – Food costs between 58 and 128 S. The cheapest is a Hungarian goulash soup, my dear ladies and gentlemen, it costs 38 s – but without semi, with Semmel she would already cost 44 s. I say: Meal, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, meal, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, meal, Austrian Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! 100 days of re-government! And what does that mean for civil service? – For civil service, this means: fewer civilians in hospitals, fewer civilians in the rescue sector, fewer civilians in social and disability assistance, fewer civilians in old-age care, fewer civilians in health care, fewer civilians in health care, fewer civilians in the care of drug addicts, fewer civilians in the care of asylum seekers, fewer civilians in the care of refugees and people who have been detained, fewer civilians for the foreign civil service. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That means "regulatory new." "Regenerate new" simply means a change of direction. One distinguishes between the organisations one wants and those one does not want. Mr. Klubobmann Khol, that's how we're back at the "goats and sheep". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also need to deal with how this Ministry of the Interior deals with affected people, with civilians. I have a letter addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, and in this letter it says: "I have been independent since 1993 and operate a technical office, special area High End 3D-CAD construction in Stockerau. In this company I currently employ seven full-time employees. ==References== April 2000 by the Ministry of the Interior I will now be on date 5. In June 2000 the ordinary civil service service was invited." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This colleague has not been agreed before. This colleague must now start his civil service, and that is why, perhaps to the address of my colleague, since it is a company, this company is now economically at risk. I wonder what solutions this ministry will find. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now return to the question of foreign civil servants, to the real subject of this question. From our point of view, the importance of the service at international holocaust memorials, as well as at social institutions abroad, is more important than ever. Some numbers for you: In 1999, 143 Austrian civilian officers were employed abroad at renowned institutions, such as the Israeli memorial Yad Vashem; since 1997 a total of 271 foreign civil servants. These are not only doing their civil service, but are mainly in the interests of the past, the preparation of the blackest chapter in Europe. These civil servants, in this respect there is a legal notice, receive no maintenance and no housing aid. The Federal Minister for the Interior informs us that the issue of support organisations would be. I am already wondering who to stand up for the interview when domestic civil servants are entitled to support and not foreign civil servants. I think that this provision in the Civil Service Act is unconstitutional. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me finish. Your civil service policy must be rejected by all reasonable people in our country. This policy is a betrayal of civil society and also a betrayal of the Austrian youth. Let me say that clearly. Therefore, we will not meet again at Philippi, but we will see ourselves in front of the Constitutional Court!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12332	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12354	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In these days, account will be taken of 100 days of the new Federal Government. I should also like to be very pleased about this occasion and would like to thank the Lower Austria criminal department for being able to conclude today, in such a exemplary way, at least criminalistically, this terrible tragic case of rape by a five-year-old girl in Baden. I would like to thank especially the officials of the City Police Baden and the Gendarmerieposten Baden. They have done excellent work and have shown that security in our country, even if such terrible things happen, is in best hands. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With great interest, I have followed the remarks made by my predecessor. In particular, it is – and this is highly interesting – that he is preoccupied with civil service, which after 25 years of civil service organization is the first party to appoint a civil servant to the government. That's a little weird. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I take note with interest that my previous speaker has not mentioned a word that, after I have been in office for three months now, 17 000 young men have waited for years and still have to wait and have not received a civilian service. This can be noted with interest. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because the ÖVP has always prevented it!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who was the Minister of the Interior?]] In my inventory of the civil service organisation and the way in which civil service is handled in my ministry, after 25 years of civil service and civil service policy, I had to find, unfortunately, by the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, which was only socially democratically occupied, that the civil service organization is organisationally inadequate, that it is financially bleeding out, and that it needs to be renewed from the outset. That is the situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of SPÖ) You have ruined everything! It's high time you're in the opposition!]] I was interested to learn that my previous speaker called a young man who became independent in 1993. Once we assume that this young man can't have been much younger than 16 years old in 1993, he's been waiting for at least three years now – and I'd think he'd wait much longer – to finally be classified as civil service. What has not happened for years under a Social Democratic Minister of the Interior is accused of the present Minister of the Interior, who has been in office for three months. I take note of this with interest, Mr Cot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can say very clearly to your information: Since I am Federal Minister, contact with the organizations has been established for the first time before a decision is issued. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: So it wasn't like that before!]] Since I am Federal Minister, civil servants have been informed in advance, and I will continue to deepen this partnership with civil service institutions in my own interest, in the interests of civil servants and in the interests of civil service organisations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also say very open and very direct: Yes, I agree that non-profit organisations have absolute priority in the allocations of civil servants. That is why I have also proposed – and I thank the Members who have supported this proposal with their request – that non-profit organisations should be given absolute priority, not the cities, not the countries, and not the Federal Ministry of Civil Service. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Yes, I have shortened hundreds of civilian services in Vienna, and I also tell you why: Because I do not want to share the responsibility that women's work places are threatened or even destroyed by the use of civil servants, especially in hospitals in the city of Vienna. That's why I don't want civilians there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will continue to work on the fact that such things as they have happened in the past in civil service allocations, that in the post civil servants have worked, that civil servants have been assigned to organisations and have suddenly been found by political parties in the electoral campaign, so that such things will no longer happen in the future. [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman]] This is not the work and not the task of civilian servants! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I can also say very openly: Yes, I am also going to be a former civil servant – I can tell you that I have completed my civil service in a disability facility, it was very, very valuable for my personal development, and I am very grateful for being able to do so – to make it strong for the equal treatment of civil and present servants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is more than conspicuous that suddenly parts of this House come from a tremendous cry when the civil servants, as far as these 43 S are concerned, are equated with the present servants. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not right! That's absurd!]] I am in favour of absolute equality, and I am entitled to see those Members who have 43 s – whenever! – have stated that it is up to this House to treat and discuss the height of the 43 S – but I would ask for equal treatment for all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On one point, I would like to give all the critical remarks a certain right: If we had done nothing, we should not have allocated any civilians in June and no civilians in October. I admit that this programme is an absolute rescue programme, but this rescue programme has at least succeeded in allowing us to allocate almost 3,000 young men now, in June and October. I think that this is at least one first step in the right direction in view of the short period of time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be enough, because it cannot remain that way. If, in an organisational way, if, in a financial sense, all the results of 25 years of civil service organisation require a reform of principals and members, then we have to act. I have therefore set up a working group, and I am very concerned that we will be able to make first proposals as quickly as possible – I hope before summer – which, on the one hand, consider the reduction of the 17 000 on the waiting list to be a special programme and, on the other hand, provide a guarantee for those young men who do not wish to be able to take up a replacement service for conscientious reasons. I would also like to confess to the House here – I heard this with interest in one of the previous debates – that: For me personally – and I am now talking about myself personally – it was not a replacement service, but an alternative service, but as the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, of course, I fully respect that choice of words which the law has provided, and I will ensure that a proposal is put on the table with which these young men who do not want to do the military service are given a chance to reject it in good time. For foreign service, I can only say one sentence to my revered predecessor – I can let the numbers speak –: As far as the planning of commemorative services is concerned, I can say that, in the estimates for the year 2000, higher funds are used and are also available for approval than were spent in 1999. – This is the only sentence for clarifying and illuminating mists that are sent through the area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12569	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Kuntzl. - Please. [[Abg. Auer: (in the direction SPÖ) Classic own gate!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: She can't save that anymore!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not even the Edellinger's fault, but there's the Schlögl to blame! And where is he? Escaped!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Get yourself caught again, Khol!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] I call Mrs Kuntzl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12649	Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr. Ex-Civilmen! I particularly regret that a minister who has himself done civil service is responding to such an important, sensitive matter with such a swall of polemics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The truth is so bad!]] Minister Strasser! Cleansing Please don't turn to your predecessor! Their predecessors had planned to extend the allocations to 8,000. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Without money?! Where is he? We want to hear the castle!]] They're screwing back. Please be man's enough, and stand by and tell us the reasons! Civil service is not a real concern to you. That's the background. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where's the castle?]] It is particularly regrettable that in the current political phase, in the current situation in which Austria is located, we must discuss the foreign civil service, the memorial service, and face a threat to us. I now quote from a statement by the chairman of the association commemorative service: If the government now decides that the performance of a memorial servant is no longer in the foreign policy interest of Austria, this will lead to massive negative international reactions. In addition, this decision would constitute a blatant violation of the Preamble signed by the Government. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! I beg you, then, don't be surprised afterwards. Take the chance, and think about what you're doing in advance! Put a positive sign that we would now need so much in this situation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you have another campaign abroad? Was that the start of a foreign campaign?]] The argument, this is about savings, has been suggested. That's just the wind shadow you want to implement this measure. This is about 143 people, and that is probably a number that we can still afford. [[Abg. Neudeck: The SPÖ not!]] This measure is not motivated by savings, but is ideologically motivated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Did you not listen? 2000 more funds than 1999!]] Unfortunately, they are taking step by step the civil service as a real alternative to the service with the weapon, you are now restricting it at least once in a multi-step procedure, first with the smaller allocations mentioned as already. [[Call the ÖVP:High! Higher!]] Low! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Have you not read the budget?]] Minister! I am particularly interested in the fact that, in connection with the hospitals, you are talking about the withdrawal of civil servants in this area in order to create more jobs for women. Federal Minister! I assume that you will work with your colleagues to ensure that, in the course of the financial settlement negotiations, more money will be allocated to hospitals in order to actually secure these women's jobs, which could also be men's jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To reduce the income available to civil servants. Imagine you cut your income to half from today to tomorrow! You might not feel it, but do you know what civil servants can afford then? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For breakfast a semi-trailer with nutella and a glass of milk, for lunch two sausages, unfortunately for drinking only water and for dinner an apple. – Great! Very "big"! [[Abg. Neudeck: This is the Mayr course!]] These are conditions which you cannot imagine, but in view of which civil servants, if they want to perform civil service, will have to consider in future whether they can afford to do so at all, whether their families can feed them at that time. What you save on the one hand by reducing the eating fee for civilian servants – about 150 million schilling – you will loosely pour out on the other hand in the form of the removal of social staggering in the multiple child strike. That is, what civil servants need to save themselves from the mouth, let those who really would not need this state grant that has enough anyway. The civil servants must save themselves from the mouth, which you give to the wealthy. These are not savings! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I don't know how you're going to explain all this to young people, but that's your political responsibility! In any case, we won't be able to watch you scramble out the alternative to the service with the weapon step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12843	The next speaker was Mr Amon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e12878	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl has spoken here of Mr Strasser's Polish reply, yes, that he would even be cleaning himself off with the civilians – and I would like to point this out to the hardest. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What is more polemic than Mr Maier, with the menu of Parliament's cafeteria, goes to the speaker's desk and asks what a civil servant can buy in Parliament's cafeteria around 43 s?- Oh, my God! Mr Maier! What you have forgotten is: What can a presence servant buy in the Parliamentary cafeteria around 43 s? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] When I heard that the SPÖ is holding today the meeting of an answer to this question, I still thought it was courageous. But when I kept the request in my hands, I thought that's actually slight. If I look at your questions, Mr Maier, I see that Question No 1 is: "How many people were affected by this negative scheme in 1997, 1998 and 1999?" I ask you: Who was 1997, who was 1998 and who was the minister responsible in 1999? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Maier doesn't know that!]] Question 2 was as follows: "What amounts should have been paid in 1997, 1998 and 1999 in the event of a corresponding legal situation for family support and housing aid?" Who was the responsible Minister of the Interior, Mr Maier, in 1997, 1998 and 1999? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's why Schlögl has lost so much in Purkersdorf!]] I mean, you have to remain fairly fair here, and I would also like to mention the figures after Mr Strasser has referred to the budget estimate for the year 2000 as being not less, but more resources for this area. In 1999, 12.930 781,90 million schilling were spent on this area. The Federal Estimate for 2000 includes 13.5 million Schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's more!]] Is that more, or is that less, Mr. Maier? Moreover, this discussion is much more fundamental. They do indeed act as if the civil service were an alternative service to the presence service under the law. That's not the case! We would have liked to have solved this security issue with you in the past legislative period, but that was not possible. Article 9a of the Federal Constitution states: "Every male Austrian citizen is defensive. For reasons of conscience, those who refuse to comply with the obligation of military service and are freed from it shall be required to provide a replacement service. (...)" That is to say, it is not an alternative service, but it is a replacement service. However, I would like to discuss with you whether we should not come to a form of service which is an alternative. [[Abg. Edellinger: Very impressive!]] I would like to be prepared to debate with you about a better professionalization of the federal army. However, you must finally overcome your ideological obstacles.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13005	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13040	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Maier, you have received the embarrassments. I can imagine that you will not call again for a written reply here in the National Council as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'd like to return to your statements. They're here very fast with big accusations. Your Secretary-General, Mrs Kuntzl, also speaks of threats. They said it was "treason" to the civilians, "treason" to the young people. [[Abg. May. Maier: That's it!]] But you then have to be told very quickly by the Minister of the Interior that it is not a betrayal that is committed here, but it is the political failure of the predecessor of the present Minister of the Interior, namely the socialist Federal Minister Schlögl, who has led to this abuse. [[Abg. May. Maier: A fraud!]] You have to take note of this! I'll tell you something: Neither I nor the Freedom Party have an disturbed relationship with civil service. I also do not want to be misunderstandingd, deliberately misunderstandingd: I am in favour of this civil service because I know that civil servants in all the social sectors in Austria are doing enormously great things. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Around 43 S!]] But, on the other hand, one must admit and think about the fact that it cannot be that the military service, which is still the civil service, has become the pillar of our social network and that everything is collapsing when it comes to a change in this Civil Service Act. I have received notices from associations that are going to demonstrate who want to send disabled people to the streets because there will be changes in civil service law. The policy of recent years was wrong! One has at the... – honourable Member! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger has been speaking towards SPÖ for some time.]] I am speaking and I would also ask you to listen to me. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] One really has to beat the policies of the past years, because it has never been made clear that civil service cannot be the basis for the social network in Austria. If large rescue organizations, if the fire brigade, if the hospitals now claim – as happened at this meeting in the Ministry of the Interior – will collapse their operations if civilians are no longer allocated in the form, then this happens due to a misdevelopment that has occurred in recent years. Equally a misdevelopment is the foreign use that has been introduced in recent years. On the one hand, the Austrian institutions have been continually precipitated, they could still receive civilian servants and on the other hand they have opened the door to other civil servants abroad for the memorial service and for the peace service. At the same time, however, it has been found that this is not, in fact, a civil service carried out abroad, because civil service can only be performed domestically, as it is a sovereign task. A social service has therefore been introduced instead of civil service. Furthermore, there has been no control of foreign services at all. It has, in fact, been exempt from maintaining contacts with foreign associations. The civil servant was completely out of sight of the domestic area. The institutions have decided where and how to use it. Now I want to hold on to something, because I am always being misinterpreted by some: I am in favour of commemorative service, I am in favour of peace service, but I do not believe that, as long as we have to cut down social institutions in Austria, we are sending civilians abroad in order to provide commemorative services there. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] I claim that it is still easier and more beautiful to monitor commemorative boards and lead people through a Holocaust museum than in Austria to empty old people in a hospital, attract them stockings and so on. [[Abg. Reheis: Around 43 S per day!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that all the foreign organisations that have so far been assigned abroad by the support organisations of civil servants – such as such well-known organizations as the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles – have enough volunteers who carry out the memorial service and the peace service, and do not need our civil servants, whom we so urgently need for our organisations in the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13148	Please, ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13164	If we have to let ourselves be blamed for these measures for the abolition of civil service, I would like to say to you: That's not the case. But the Greens in Germany have now thought aloud about whether it would be more sensible to abolish civil service at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13197	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13218	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, if you are already concerned about the nurses, for example, about the jobs of women in hospitals in the city of Vienna, I would like to ask you: Are you also concerned about the employees at the Lower Austrian Relief Agency in the same intensity? But I want to come to another topic now. Mr. Strasser, as a person, I believe that you, as a former civil servant, know what this is about. However, the problem you have is that you have not been able to stand up against the ÖVP and against the FPÖ. They were unable to enforce Mr Klubobmann Khol, against Mr Westenthaler, against Mr Scheibner, and then they also had to be put on the table by Minister of Finance Grasser as far as the budget is concerned. That's the problem! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Steibl and Dr. Drinkl.]] She, Dr. Strasser, is the competent minister and that is why you must also reap the negative "Lorberries" in this case! That's right, that's quite simply your job. The fact that Mr Amon did deal with the Civil Service Act perhaps two minutes before he got out of here shows that he said: There are also only 43 S per day for the food. – Have you forgotten, then, that the present servants have to be introduced into the barracks? Only if they don't want to eat there will they be paid 43 s as compensation. If they can't eat there, they will of course also receive 155 S of flat-rate remuneration in the future. This is the inequality, ladies and gentlemen, that you have created. That's the inequality you're trying to defend! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Work with this and compare the civil servants' entitlement to benefits with that of the present servants! Then you'll come up with it: Civil servants no longer need to be provided in the institutions. You have completely eliminated this by deleting the corresponding paragraph. The civil servants now have to see that they are somehow getting on the rounds on the free market around 43 s, which is not possible in practice at all. Minister! That the revision of the Civil Service Act is a coup, you have already agreed by the government parties by already talking about the fact that there will be a renewal of the innovation in autumn. – There is nothing more obvious than the fact that you have a novelle with 1. June will enter into force, it will be discussed again in mid-May and it will be said that there will be a novel in autumn, which will then come into force with January next year. Minister! With regard to this novel, I would like you to do what you have promised, that you will discuss things, that there are opposition periods, that there are time limits for assessment, and that you will deal with civil servants and the institutions seriously and honestly. It just didn't happen! You know. As quickly as this Civil Service Law Novelle has never been pushed through a revision in this House. I cannot and will not allow you to continue doing this spectacle at the expense of civil servants, at the expense of disabled people, in the direction that no one will be able to afford civil service in the medium term unless parents receive the young man. That's the problem. Maybe today you've happened to see the action that took place at the grave. There are civilians, representatives of disability facilities, affected people and disabled children with a sign around the neck and have said: For us a walk in summer will no longer be possible. We don't have civilians anymore. – Can you really answer, Minister, that disabled people, that old people, that sick people are also taken the piece of quality of life, namely, that they are taken at least once a day for an hour to walk? Minister! I don't believe you own this brutality. That's why I'm asking you to: Leave the novel to the Civil Service Act, which you have now decided! Please explain it for obsolet! Take her back! Give yourself and us the opportunity to discuss by autumn and that we have problems that exist...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13288	Your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13303	Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13333	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13355	I take the negotiation of the Advisory Group XIII: Public performance and sports are back on. Speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs. Riess-Passer, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13379	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am continuing after this somewhat abrupt interruption with the chapter "Sport" and would like to briefly mention the key dates. In 1999, the total federal sport funding amounted to 648 million schillings. This is the same amount as foreseen in the 2000 budget. These 648 million schillings consist of 460 million schillings in Toto funds and 188 million schillings from the general sports promotion. This was the result of very difficult and tough negotiations with Mr Finanzminister, and I would like to point out – and it is particularly important to me to explain this – that when I draw up the 2000 budget, I gave the instructions that the Federal Sports Organisation, the associations, the coaching agencies, the sport coordinators, the youth and top sports promotions and the sport of disabled persons should not be reduced by 15 percent, because it was important for us to create a reliable basis for the work in 2000. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like, since you all know the government programme, to present only briefly the main concerns in the field of sports policy which we have pursued for this legislative period. On the one hand, this is the development of a differentiated sport offer in kindergartens and schools, in order to motivate young people to experience sports as a useful design for their further life, and on the other hand, it is the intensification of cooperation between sports science, medicine, clubs and athletes. Common objectives of the public authorities and of the sports organisations are to be set in order to promote international competitiveness in top Austrian sport. The creation of a national sports infrastructure plan in conjunction with common sports policy objectives is also very important, because I have found the following: Last year, in the course of the election campaign, both then Minister of Finance Edlinger and the then Secretary of State went through Austria with the Füllhorn and by hand promised a stadium every 50 kilometres in that country and more, without any financial coverage. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's what the government decided!]] I would like to show you, Mr Edlinger, the many letters of commitments I have received from all over Austria, which you and my colleague Wittmann have made by hand and for which there have been no decisions in the Federal Government and no financial cover. [[Further call of the Abg. Edellinger.]] I would like to send you this, you can then give your opinion on it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For us, it is important – which is probably the most important goal we have – that we introduce comprehensible and transparent promotion guidelines throughout the field of sport promotion, namely directives that also allow for multiannual budget planning, which are calculable and reliable for the partners of the federal government in the promotion of sports. We support the training programmes of employees in the Austrian sports organisations, not only in the sense of coach training, but – and this is an area that is becoming increasingly important – also in the field of marketing training, because we believe that professionalization in the associations is urgently needed. Anything we can do from the federal side to support this, we will do. The focus is on the introduction of effective measures against doping in sport and on information on this. We have a pharmaceutical law, which is now in the process of completion, which will deal precisely with this area and will also provide for far more stringent provisions than has been the case so far. Finally, we will do everything we can to ensure that there are also new possibilities for funding in sport in two ways: on the one hand, in the form of a sports sponsorship – this is a task that the Tax Reform Commission will also aim at – and on the other hand, by establishing its own sports channel, because we believe that the media presence, the television presence, should also be expanded by those sports that are commonly referred to as marginal sports – which I do not want to call, but these are important sports that simply do not have the corresponding media platform in the present situation – so that they can get through this path to additional funding. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A first, though small, step has now been taken by an additional rail on TW 1, where there is an hourly sporty reporting. But that is, as has been said, only a very small, tiny step, although in the right direction, but that will have to be done much more. We are also interested in developing a new career in the sports sector and in financial support from the labour market service for professional activity in sport. A very personal concern that I have – which was important to me from the very beginning – that is why we have taken particular account of it in the creation of the budget for 2000 – is that we also finally put the promotion of the sport of disabled persons on a legal basis. This is something that has not yet been understood. I believe that it is unreasonable – especially for the athletes in the disabled – that they always depend on the goodwill from year to year. We are preparing and creating a legal basis to ensure that there is adequate support security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that everyone who knows the government programme, everyone who knows the budget and the goals of this federal government in the field of sport must take note that we attach a very important importance to sport and that sport has a great importance in this government. I believe that sport is also something we should demonstrate together – also across the party borders – that it is possible to achieve ambitious goals. I also cordially invite the opposition to support it, because I believe that it is precisely this area in which, in cooperation with the federal sports organisations, with the associations, with the Austrian Olympic Committee, the 12 000 sports clubs and the hundreds of thousands of athletes and officials, it should be our common goal to look back at a successful new sport policy orientation in this country at the end of this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13462	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please take Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure into account and start!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13494	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I have three things to correct. First: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said in her speech that I had distributed the AMS. - That's wrong! It's true that I didn't break up the AMS. This was already happening in 1994 – I joined the Federal Government in 1997 – at the intense request of the then somewhat unfortunate economic minister Schüssel. – Since you are with this Lord more often, please ask him what moved him to do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor claimed that I had gone through Austria with the filling horn and had promised stadiums. - That's wrong! I didn't go through Austria with the filling horn, nor did I promise stadiums. It was only the decision of the Federal Government to adapt or rebuild some stages in the case of the award of the EM in 2004. If you inform local politicians differently, I can only recommend not to be tricked by these local politicians – with all the subjective understanding of their position – by Mrs Vice-Chancellor. I'm going to check for the third actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13538	Mr Wittmann spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13562	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Kanzler claimed that I had traveled through Austria with the "Füllhorn" and had promised stadiums – by hand. – That’s wrong! I didn't travel through Austria with the Fillhorn, nor did I promise stadiums by hand. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not even that he did! Not even that!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are commitments for subsidies only in written form, and these files have been handed over to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13617	Mr Edlinger has spoken on another point of fact, namely a word made by Mr Kopf. I would ask you again to take account of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13642	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr Kopf claimed that the pension concept of the Federal Government, which provides for massive reductions in the use of early pensions, stemmed from me. - That's wrong! I would never have agreed to any deductions, which mean a massive reduction in future pensions. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kampichler.]] These deductions are exclusively in line with the social dimension of this Federal Government, and they bear the manuscript Khol/Schüssel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13683	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13705	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The newspaper "Die Presse" already published its supplement with the headline last December: "Administration costs 50 billion too much." The article referred to the criticism of Wifo's chief Helmut Kramer, who identified a significant need for reform in the administration. According to an OECD study – the Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned this – the Austrian administration in the Federal Republic, countries and municipalities costs two percentage points of gross domestic product more than comparatively in the Federal Republic of Germany, and this, although, for example, defence expenditure in the Federal Republic of Germany, as we all know, is much higher than in Austria. In the government programme, the coalition parties have taken this into account. The number of public servants must be reduced in the medium term, and these savings must be achieved by the non-retiring of public service posts in the near future. A job and expenditure reform is immediately linked to it. The objective must be to concentrate state services on core functions and optimise the distribution of tasks. Only through this can it be ensured that there are no restrictions on the administrative services of the public or that there is undue congestion of the staff in the administration. One of the most important objectives of modern personnel development – and I do not intend to say "personnel policy" – in the public service is the so-called objective. This is a genuinely objective and verifiable selection of personnel when entering the public service. So far, the party's book economy and the political propor. However, the right party book not only decided on the inclusion or non-inclusion in a ministry, in a state government or in a city administration; party politics also played a key role in the career of the staff. The transfer from one civil servant group to another, extraordinary, or the occupation of head office posts and the like was often dependent on political decisions alone. Everyone who has or is still working in the public service knows that there have been serious injustices and misconceptions in this system. I would like to give you a negative example today as a particularly bad case of party-politically motivated arbitrariness. The whole matter can also be put under the title: Infringement of the Republic Austria by the former Minister of Finance Lacina. I am forwarding that everyone in this room can take an insight into my documents, including the higher court decision, and against my other habit in personal matters I will also call the names. In 1988, i.e. twelve years ago, the position of the inspector of the customs offices in the area of the financial management for Salzburg was to be re-occupied. The tendering and recruitment procedure, carefully prepared, has ended with a clear and comprehensible opinion of the tendering commission in favour of the applicant Franz Polster. The head of the personnel section responsible for this procedure then recommended to the Federal Minister for Finance, Mr Dkfm. Lacina also entrusted the applicant Franz Polster with the advertised post. However, the Federal Minister then instructed the section manager to entrust this function to a less appropriate candidate, according to the Commission's opinion. Although the head of the section pointed out to his Federal Minister that his insistence on this instruction would fulfil the state of the abuse of the official power – I repeat: the state of the crime of abuse of the official force – Federal Minister Lacina remained at his direction, on which the less suitable candidate was finally ordered as the inspector of the customs offices. Mr. Lacina has also taken his section leader's warnings badly, for he has advised him to retire early. The former official, Franz Polster, did not take his unjustified disadvantages into account, but claimed his damage in the course of an indemnity. The incorrect and illegal operation of the former Minister of Finance has been repeatedly presented in several jurisdictions by all institutions up to the Supreme Court. Finally, the Supreme Court took the case with a decision on 27 July. August 1999, i.e. after eleven years, was finally regulated. Thus, the Court of Justice has recognised that in the present case, Federal Minister Lacina has misused his powers grossly. Thus – and this is the effect of this decision – there was nothing in principle in the way of compensation for damage to the injured officials. After the new judgment, it is only to be found that, ladies and gentlemen, the amount of financial loss of the applicant was and will be until his retirement. Of course, the difference between the unlawfully reserved transport is for him. The Republic of Austria will therefore have to pay damages to the injured staff and will also have to bear the entire cost of the proceedings. In this context, of course, the question arises whether and how far the person responsible, namely the former Federal Minister Lacina, can be held responsible for this. Ladies and gentlemen! This case sheds a significant light on the brutal party policy in the case of official appointments. Although the judgment of the Supreme Court is, as I believe, a milestone in the maintenance of our rule of law, it must not be forgotten that this case is an appalling political scandal. Of course we all know: That's just one aspect. It is the tip of an iceberg, a sort of party-political operational accident. One thing is clear: If the underprivileged officials had not sought his right to the judicial authorities, he would certainly have been denied it. However, it is not the regular case – and this is what all those who work in the public service know – that officials are fighting for their right for eleven years in court. Most resign and give up much earlier. Such scandals will certainly not exist under the new Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For us, objectivity and objectivity are not keywords, not empty words, but part of our political principles. [[Abg. Silhavy: You can see that at the Minister of Justice!]] [[Call to the Greens: We have noticed that!]] Among other things, they are also a declaration that we have become a 5 % party in 1985 to the Workers' Party at last elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals do not intend to participate in the post office chess and in the proportion we have fought over many decades. We do not regard public service as a self-service shop for a party or for the politically powerful. However, we want to create better conditions for the volunteers in the public service so that the career depends not on the party book, but on personal skill and personal use. The new objective law, which Mrs Vice-Chancellor will present before the summer, is a very essential prerequisite for this. With a personal comment I would like to conclude: As a municipal councillor and as a staff speaker in Graz, I have had a long struggle for more objectivity in the city administration. I am pleased that, as spokesman of my group for the public service in Parliament, I am now able to support similar objectiveive measures in the Federal Service under the leadership of a liberal Vice-Chairman. I would like to thank you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, and your officials for their efforts to bring fresh wind to a partly rigid administration and to guarantee a lot more freedom for each staff member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13769	The next speaker was Mr Grabner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13791	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As my colleagues did, so do I. I would like to talk about sports, but I have to make a few comments before. As far as friend Kopf is concerned, he has of course forgotten a State Secretary – but you can be forgetful here in this round – namely State Secretary Schaffer. I don't like to contradict a woman, but today I have to contradict you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor. They have said: no burdens. – I quote from today’s press release the following words of the President of the Chamber of Labour Tyrol – not a Social Democratic. He says: "It is time to 'give full gas' and to resist 'the intended burdens of the government'." – That was a representative of the ÖVP! You also said: "Woman State Secretary Prammer." – She was never a Secretary of State, she was a Minister. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] [[Abg. Aumayr:... Minister without ministry!]] Another thing: You also have our support when you say the party book must be gone with the officials. You just need to say this to your coalition partner: In the public service personnel election, ÖAAB has received 76 percent and – I don't dare to say it at all – in Lower Austria more than 95 percent! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: So weak are you?]] – This is the personnel policy of the head of state Pröll! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Are you so weak?]] That's where you recognize yourself! You change your face every minute! Thank God they have already put you a little side by side with your former minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe – and I am going to conform with you – that it is very good if we can find commonplace where sports are concerned. But there is also a need to show where there are problems. The demand in the government agreement of ÖVP and FPÖ clearly shows a threatening trend. The fifth paragraph of the Government Programme contains the following points: Promotion of non-profit and non-party associations and associations. – A few sentences further say that associations and associations must be kept from unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good, very well done!]] If you mean the roof associations, I say: These three umbrella associations in Austria are well-occupied with Mrs. Landeshauptmann Deputy Prokop, with friend Lösnak and Dr. Wainig. This is very important because 12 200 sports clubs with almost 3.5 million people and 200 000 officials are represented in the umbrella associations. Ladies and gentlemen! I've said it very often – and we're going to conform as well: The gold of sports in Austria are the volunteer officials! [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: Are the officials!]] If you had to pay your work, which they did for free for sports, with only 100 s, that would be well over 30 billion schilling. Former sports minister Fred Sinowatz once said: A city, a community lives only when the club life works. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The Citizenship!]] – That is why it is so important that we have a lot of sports clubs in the small communities, and I therefore ask you to support them. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP and applause with the SPÖ.]] Of course, every support, everything we can get in addition to money – friend head last time meant 1 billion schilling; we were glad that we got 500 million – very, very important. Every major event in the sports sector that succeeds in getting to Austria is very important because it brings a lot for the communities, for tourism and, of course, for sports. As far as sports bets are concerned, there has already been work in different channels. We only need to be careful, because this is the country, that it does not fail and that we get the money then. Paper is patient, it is written very much, but the countries are naturally concerned about their shares, and therefore we have many problems there too. The same is true in the school sports area. You have to ask yourself whether it makes sense to set up your own association; but if, of course, that belongs to the Ministry of Education. Ladies and gentlemen! We are always ready for reforms – Dr. Löschnak, the freely elected official of the Federal Sport Organisation, has said it – but of course it must also be spoken to the representatives of the sport. Dear friends from Carinthia! I have a recent survey carried out in Carinthia on the roof associations and the clubs – my friend Leikam is very grateful at this point; yes, he is a functional in Carinthia! –: [[Call to the liberals:Leikam?]] Of 370 clubs, 30 percent have returned their results, and they believe that the field of wide-ranging and health sports should continue to be perceived by the umbrella organisations in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! In a few days – next week – it will be so far that we will receive a new Secretary-General for sports aid. The training of trainers, the further development we need to adapt to today's times, that's important. I say it at the end, because it's loud volunteers – and almost no social democrats, because I can't right my friend's head, either, as far as the "arming" is concerned, because we don't have so many officials in the professional associations: If you'd been silent, you'd be a wise man, you'd be a white man. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was the closing point!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The freely chosen sport in Austria is filled with Lösnak, Pillwein and Zeh, the Olympic Committee with Wallner and Jungwirth, the ski association with Schröcksnadel and Leistner, the football association with Mauhart, Ludwig and Kopf, if you want, very well. Here, too, one can say that even the liberals have good sports officials when I think of kartnig – the same thing I can't say at Fischl. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! So that you can see that there is really good work being done in a umbrella association – with the other associations it is the same – I can hand over to you the guide of the sports clubs, the "sport manager".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13947	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e13969	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On one point, I have to disagree with Mr Grabner right now: That he moves my friend Hannes Kartnig into the vicinity of the Freeman may probably be because he can deal well with everyone, but especially with me well. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that Storm Graz delivered a huge canter victory against Tyrol yesterday – very much to the shame of my clubman – may all the more be a sign of this, colleague Fischl, that Sturm Graz is really a good club under good leadership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: But Master will be Tyrol!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But Rapid doesn't work anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sport is in fact national in legislation and in enforcement on the basis of Article 15. But it is undisputed – and this has been mentioned by my previous speaker, Mr Grabner – that sport is of course a huge economic factor and that it is able to provide tremendous impetus for tourism and that it is also capable of producing grandiose and ideal models for youth and, of course, for the population as a whole and thus for broadband. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My colleague Grabner mentioned that the related work is an important one. I agree with you, colleague. But when we think about youth work and that studies prove and prove that the youth prefers the extraordinary sports work, I think we should think about how we could attract the related work. That would have to be a concern and an assignment. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the enormous economic factor that it represents, sport of course also brings with it the fact and the positive that it can also contribute to public health. I didn't trust my ears when my son's training officer from the German army barracks in Gratkorn recently mentioned, among other things, that the 18 to 19-year-old recruits and ground defenses came to the federal army in such a bad health condition that it was absolutely necessary to do something. Now the matter of sport, which would be national in legislation and execution, but ultimately the federal affairs in so far as health policy and social policy are in fact federal matters, and I come now. 10.7% of our young men are not suitable. 21.2 percent of all men undergoing this examination and position commission have enormous weaknesses in the musculoskeletal system, muscles and connective tissue. That would have to give us some thought. If you hear this analysis, you have to think about it: What are we doing? – What do the Austrians especially like to do? – 60 percent bike – we know this from a microcensus survey –, 53 percent swim, 41 percent go hiking. So these are things that we need to think about, which can help the federal government to achieve infrastructural support in order to make it easier to practice sports. Ladies and gentlemen! I have also briefly mentioned social policy. A very short example: In Graz City Park four years ago, we had the alarm that more and more young people were following vandalism and that we had very big problems with alcohol and drugs. At the time, we discussed whether the police should be sent more strongly to the city park so that the young people could be monitored there, so to speak. It was at the time our idea to say the idea of the Graz People's Party: We'll try sports. We offer sports in the city park. It was then I who tried to develop a concept with trend sports in the city park. Ladies and gentlemen! This happened with great success! Since we regularly have these sports offers every summer from April to the end of August, we have not only less vandalism, but also significantly fewer problems with alcoholized young people and hardly a drug problem – at least in the city park, in addition, of course, unfortunately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sport is an economic factor, it is also a factor for public health, and it also has a very high social component for me. When I drive through the Styria and get to the last graves of the Styria, I see young boys, boys, running through the area with the Vastic-Leiberl and playing sport enthusiastically. This probably cannot reach a community, no country, no league, which can be reached through sport. The top sport brings a movement into this very scene. Ladies and gentlemen! There are major events that are indispensable for economic reasons, such as the Formula 1 Grand Prix in Spielberg/Zeltweg. For five years there has been this event. We had 153,000 spectators last year, about 15 000 more than 1998. We achieved 266 million schilling last year in sales, and 121 million was regional value added. This record of success continued. I do not want to be bored because you probably know these facts and circumstances from the media. In addition to the Salzburg Festival and the New Year's Concerto, the Grand Prix in Styria is probably the largest media event in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, this would be a pleasant balance and a gratifying circumstance, if there were not something that bothers me very much personally. Unfortunately, Mr Herb is not there all day, because otherwise I would have had to tell him quite clearly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not a "feeler"!]] I would have liked to make it clear to him today that on 18 November, he was a member of the European Parliament. ==References== September 1995 the then Chancellor Vranitzky – in writing, ladies and gentlemen – has guaranteed state councillor Gerhard Hirschmann, but also Landesrat Ressel, to contribute 120 million schilling to the construction of the Austrian ring. In the meantime, 1 billion schilling of taxes has already flown back to the federal government – 1 billion schilling! – but to date no single tax schilling on the part of the federal government has gone into the construction of the Austrian ring. I am therefore very grateful to you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, that you have begun negotiations with Landesrat Gerhard Hirschmann with regard to the promotion of a possible extension of the contract of the Formula One ring, and I am confident that your constructive nature and joint work in this direction will also produce a very positive result. Thank you, Mrs. Vice chancellor! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14053	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14074	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! High house! First of all, I would like to mention two reasons why we will not agree with this sports budget or this public performance and sport budget approach. [[Abg. Zweytick: I can't do that! You can't do that!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Now all are for sports, and...!]] The first reason is that, in a situation where the Ministry of Women and the Ministry of the Environment has been abolished, we do not accept the creation of a ministry in this order. We have already announced this in the budget debate or in the government statement. We believe that the field of competence of this ministry is simply not sufficient to justify its own ministry. This also gives rise to the clear logic of not being able to agree to the budget of this ministry. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: I didn't understand!]] – That is usually the case, Mr Schweitzer, but I cannot change that. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The second reason why we will not vote in favour of the budget – and I hope that something will change in the future – is the fact that even in this budget of posts "Special sport promotion" is not transparent and it remains a breakdown among the individual Roof associations give, but it is not comprehensible who uses what money for what. The sports report, which we are about to discuss in the Committee, is mentioned in an inconspicuously small, beautiful box on page 20 400 million schilling, but one does not actually know what is happening with it. There is nothing in the sports report or in the budget. But I am building on it – and I emphasize that there are statements from you – that this will be different in the future. If it comes to a regulation that makes the transparency of sports promotion generally different, then we can certainly talk about whether we also agree to a sports budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to quote from the 1994 Court of Auditors' report. It was the last one to deal with sports promotion in detail. However, there was recently one in which the Court of Auditors itself referred to this report, which is why there is a certain amount of topicality. I would like to quote a few points. I am saving myself from mentioning the arguments because I could not represent them better than is done in this Court of Auditors report. Point 1 – on the criticism of sport promotion: "In many cases, it was not understandable whether the legal conditions for granting sports promotions (e.g. the international and all-Austrian importance of the projects and the need for the use of federal funds, taking into account the financial situation of the promoter) existed." – First point of criticism. Second criticism: "The Court of Auditors challenged the granting of support on the basis of insufficient applications, or" – this is particularly exciting! – "despite obvious non-existent conditions of support." [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's where the Wittmann sits!]] I have emphasized earlier that I also have the hope that this will change in the future, but it should perhaps be mentioned again. The third criticism is also about the umbrella organisations, the special promotion of sports. In this context, I would like to speak briefly to Mr Grabner, but first of all I would like to read this criticism of the Court of Auditors: "The beneficiaries continue to consider these federal funds as means of sport, which should be managed and controlled by the organisations themselves." The Court of Auditors further noted: "The Court of Auditors considered this to be unthinkable at all events. Since the Sports-Toto-Reform, the funding amounts previously determined by the Federal Government for parts of the Sports-Toto-Rein yield have been estimated under the Federal Budget. There was also unlimited ministerial responsibility for this support sector. In any event, the legal guarantee of funds and the guarantee of value created a significant improvement in the production of sports organisations vis-à-vis beneficiaries in other areas." I now come to speak to Mr Grabner. Mr Grabner! They always represent this as if it were a contradiction to say that on the one hand, the work of the sports functionaries is essential, while on the other hand, one demands transparency. It's not like that. [[Abg. Grabner: That's not true at all!]] What just has to be said is that with the replacement symbolism it should finally have an end on a local level. I do not think it is true and not appropriate that – and I know that, I come from a club that also belongs to the ASKÖ – one has no idea how these resources are used. It is then in the hands of the respective district secretary, official, however, whether you get a promotion in the tennis court for a square renovation, whether you... [[Abg. Grabner: No! That's not true at all! He has no idea!]] Maybe that's not true with you. All I can say is that where I am, it's safe. [[Abg. Grabner: That's not true!]] The fact is that here simply no unique... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl]] [[Abg. Grabner: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's the problem he has no idea!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Well, then he should practice! Exercise!]] Mr Grabner! If you tell me that at the ASKÖ unions in the district of Baden it is clear what the money of all member associations is used for, then it seems that something is no longer true of community life. There are the mayors sitting and blocking there. To the clubs: I have been in a board member since seven or eight years, and it has always been impossible to find out where the funds come from. [[Abg. Grabner: That's not true at all!]] – Okay, look at this yourself and don’t defend things that have obviously been present for years – and that’s why there has been this Court of Auditors criticism. I can also read to you what the Court of Auditors - and if you provoke me, then I can certainly meet you in this way - found in 2000 and 1999, and that is not particularly pleasant. The 1994 report referred to: "As a result of several changes, the Federal Sports Promotion Act has become overall unclear and difficult to read. Already on the occasion of an earlier performance review" – that was the one from which I quoted – "other areas of sport promotion have recommended the Court of Auditors to fundamentally rethink the system of sport promotion of the federal government and to reorganise it comprehensively." "Extrusions" – and now it comes! – "The Federal Chancellery in this direction as well as a well-founded evaluation of the sports promotion area were, however, only to be found on the occasion of the current conduct review." – From 1994 to 1999 to 2000, it has been five years during which you would have had the opportunity to take decisive steps and to make further development possible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll see you again. I have noted in the Committee's deliberations that you want to put on a new basis both the field of general sport promotion and the field of special sport promotion – including sports legislation as such – and that you want to create rules, which will increase transparency. [[Abg. Fischl: A new star at sports policy level! He knows what he's talking about!]] Look In the field of sports legislation as such, in amateur sports, you will once see how the regulations are. I can tell you an example, a biterl I've been following. The ASK Kottingbrunn will probably be a term for you, for a time in Austrian football he was a club on the starry sky. [[Abg. Fischl: Rapid is also a term for him!]] This association has risen for years in the Lower Austrian leagues, there have never been any problems with work permits or with insurance bases. This has obviously been relatively difficult in the amateur sector. The ASK Kottingbrunn – I don't know exactly now, 1996 must have been – has risen into the Bundesliga, and at once there was a two-month-long process – since they have gone down again, that was the worse year – and the club was able to use its players at once when the championship began, because it had no approvals – which was never a problem for him in the amateur sector. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: 1998!]] You can't tell me that it's normal for amateurs to have different regulations – the 2nd. Division was still there at the time – as in the professional field. I wonder at all, like a professional company with a budget, that in the 1st century. ==References== Division, officially announced with three, four, five million schilling – I don't know how much it was, I think the ASK Kottingbrunn has then stated 6 million schilling annual budget – should work. If you listen in the background, you can calculate that because of what the players have earned there, you could probably finance the players of a handball team, but certainly not a cadre of the football club. I would just like to point out that in the field of sport there seems to be a lot of happening in the grey area. In this area, it would certainly have been necessary in the past to take steps which have clearly not been taken. It is also about the following: I do not need to stress that we have no problem, even if legionaries work in Austrian football. The point then becomes a bit more brilliant when, for example, serious injuries occur in the amateur leagues at once, the players come to the hospital and then it is found that there is no insurance for these athletes. Then it'll be a little tight. This is a point to consider. In this sense, there was a discussion yesterday with Mr Fischl, who, I think, quite represents the position that something needs to be changed. I look forward to the fact that in the field of sports legislation, we need to work out a lot in the next few years that has been in place for a long time. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Fischl.]] I would like to talk about two principles in sport, which seem to me to be relatively important. The first is that you should not only talk about sport in the sense of top sports, but it is also massively about broadband. I say it again from my experience: The problems one still has to get into public sports facilities at local level are a legend. If you try to get to a football court privately, there will be quite some trampleries with the local club chiefs to get access there at all. In recent times, there has been at least a positive development in schools, school room transfer has become possible for a few years, although it is still very limited, because one is still very dependent on how willing the school is, what possibilities there are, whether the school guard is there, who can lock up, but at least there were approaches to make available an existing infrastructure that can be used. This is possible only a few years ago, before that the schools were simply closed. There was no way to use the schools' facilities. In this respect, there is certainly a lot to do or a lot to continue what has at least been started in recent years. In my opinion, public places in Europe are always a good example, and I said that yesterday in the discussion. Those who travel to the Netherlands, those who travel in London in the Hyde Park, will surely observe with fascination what is happening there. In the Hyde Park, between five and ten football matches take place in parallel and clearly on good days, it is simply run in public areas, on public areas. Whoever goes to a park in Austria usually sees a Taferl, on which says: Entering the lawn forbidden. [[Abg. Dr. Zernatto: In punishment!]] – In punishment forbidden!, yes, that can also stand on it! I think that too, in sports policy, we should have a different approach. The public places are there for public life, and this should be tried in many areas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point: Sports and politics. I always have the impression that sports politicians were present in the past especially where there was something to "inherit". [[Abg. Fischl: For dinner! Look at the graver!]] – I remain on the political level: to "inherit" gave. You just love the presence of sports fame, used by athletes to put yourself in the sun and participate. The example of the "Sports Award", when Mr. Federal Chancellor climate over days and weeks was continuously depicted in the "Kronen Zeitung" on the first side and in the sports section – once with Muhammad Ali, then again with anyone else – is legend and a proof that one obviously uses sports to represent politics. I think that's just the wrong access. Sports policy has the task of creating a framework for sport – and I say it again: mainly broadband – in order to enable sports activity. In top sports, too, it will be necessary to create framework conditions, but it will simply be a matter of separating politics not only formally from it, but also of getting this picture away, of making seventeen photo dates with every Olympic winner as possible, and of getting to the point that one wants to promote sports of promotion, of activity, also for health reasons, but certainly not in order to beat political capital out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14356	The next item is the speech by Mr Ortlieb. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14377	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! – Thank you for teaching. [[Call the SPÖ:Woman Vice chancellor!]] Economy, sports clubs and many voluntary helpers – as Mr Grabner has already said – have been a massive support in recent years and the environment that has shaped top sports. Huge sponsoring amounts, countless volunteer lessons and also a huge portion of idealism and enthusiasm for sports have greatly promoted them. But I have unfortunately missed such great commitment to sports in the last legislative periods of politics. I therefore welcome the tireless use of the new Federal Government, especially the Vice-Chancellor, who has made the stepchild sport much more positive in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have heard some positive feedback from athletes myself and many others have already received it. Mrs Partik-Pablé told you yesterday that it should be about making cross-party disability policy. I can only suggest that it should be the same in sports. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition to economic and medical considerations, the importance of top-level sports must also be mentioned in its role model – an example for youth and for broadband, areas which have to be fundamentally promoted over-participally. Top sports as a model for the youth also prove to be an engine for adult sports. It is the young people who move their parents to do more sports, to exercise themselves more physically, and above all to live more health-consciously – animations, ladies and gentlemen, who express themselves in increased fitness awareness and also in physical well-being. [[Call the Greens:Animians!]] But I would also like to point out at this point the often neglected importance of the federal army in connection with sport. Thanks to the efficient military policy of recent years, it has been possible for those present who did not have the opportunity in their youth to engage in sports to reclaim this during the time of their presence. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One of the most important sponsors of Austrian top-ranking is the Army Sports and Middle-Fight School, which is subject to the Federal Ministry of Defence. Young, committed athletes, who are on their way to the world’s top, need this social reception network – that’s how it can be described – to devote themselves fully to the development of sports. Especially those athletes who do not have this network are simply at risk, they cannot develop accordingly because they have no restraint. They have to abandon their professional development, and it is therefore very, very important that these institutions continue to be strongly supported. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to point out the importance of tourism in relation to sport, which my previous speaker has already stressed. Everyone is clear – we heard it yesterday too –: The tourism industry lives very much from sport. Young people, students who exercise sports, animated their parents to make sports holidays, and that is very, very important. I think that just wellness and fitness are those areas that indicate the direction to which tourism is developing, and sport plays a major role in this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Grabner: The World Championship in...!]] – St. Anton. [[Abg. Grabner: No! Application!]] In this context, I would also like to point out another source of financial revenue, which will be available in the coming years thanks to the creation of sports and competition channels. Especially, as we already know... – Not Stronach, everyone! [[Calls:Stronach]] Everyone! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls:Who's all]] Another positive development should also be the creation of federal sports facilities, sports and training centres for students. Away from officials' shelters to sports workshops. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It simply can't be that large federal sports centers are blocked just because many high-ranking officials there are making vacations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this context, I agree to give a positive example: There is the Olympic base Obertauern, which is financed freely, who does not receive public funds, who works best and who produces a lot of medal candidates, especially every year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Especially in view of the upcoming sporting events – the Olympic Games in Sydney this summer, the Alpine Ski World Championship in St. Anton – nothing more can be more important than a massive support of our athletes. We know how important our athletes are to the reputation of Austria abroad. Especially now, where only criticism is made everywhere, it can only be beneficial if Austrians are also represented positively abroad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to express the wish that the cooperation between the Federal Ministry of Education and the Federal Ministry of Sport, which is very important, will also take place in a massive way, a cooperation which is consistent with the problem of doping and drug abuse and which will develop concrete measures to this end. I therefore call on all the ladies and gentlemen present here not to endanger or question the work of the Austrian Federal Government in this regard, but rather to support it – for the benefit of our youth, for the benefit of our country. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14532	Mr Leikam has spoken on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14556	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ortlieb, whom I, of course, very much appreciate as an athlete, has meant that in the last legislative period of sport, very little support has been given. [[Call to the liberals: In the last, he said!]] I'm actually correcting: Mr Ortlieb! You should know better. Over 1 billion Schilling was invested by the Ministry of Transport alone in the transport infrastructure improvement, in the relocation of the station for the Alpine Schi-WM at Arlberg. The Alpine Schi-WM organization committee at Arlberg has received far more than 100 million Schilling. [[Call to the liberals: This is not an actual correction!]] Thus, the sport was really well supported by the former Federal Government. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals: Reporters! Correct!]] I would like to quote one that we all know well, namely the President of the Austrian Schi Association, who has always meant: If we need support for sport, we have to go to Vienna to the red minister, because there we get her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14636	As the next speaker, Mr Wittmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14658	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! At least I'm still there, but you're nothing more. [[Abg. Fischl: Are you still honorary president in Wiener Neustadt?]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Right at the beginning, because Mr Fischl has just intervened: He said something right once, about a year ago. He said: The headlessness of the EIA on questions of a meaningful sport concept, which should be enriched by the wisdoms of Mr Kopf, has reached the summit of planlessness. - I can only give him the right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I am very happy and congratulate the Vice-Chancellors on keeping to our figures and practically writing on our budget instead of being led by the ÖVP into planlessness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has therefore adopted an effective instrument. Just the ideas are missing. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] I would like to point out quite clearly that nothing has been changed, which in itself is good, because it has been recognized that this was probably the best thing that has been brought together in this very planless budgeting chaos that has been presented to us in the last few days. I would just like to put a little into question two atrocities that have been repeatedly mentioned by the liberals. I hope that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor will not be caught up in a quick shot. One is the full privatisation of the Bundessportheime. I believe that the owner of state makes sense for a private-law form of organisation if one wants to continue to confirm the public hand as a promoter of high- and high-quality sports. This private-law organisational project has led to market-oriented prices being demanded that one can no longer do what Mr. Ortlieb has said, but that someone who is private in a federal sports home must pay the full amount. On the other hand, the clubs supported or the top athletes who take advantage of it are directly funded by the Ministry. Mrs. Bundeskanzler! I remember – I really want to see this as a contribution to the further discussion – that 80 percent of the load on the Bundessportheimen, which is 70 percent, is done by funded clubs and top athletes. If you privatize it, you will open an additional hotel. They compete with tourism, and I do not know how you want to achieve the promotion of top athletes and athletes because you are no longer able to intervene in private price formations. I would therefore really recommend to say goodbye to this type of privatisation and to maintain these sports homes as a targeted state sport promotion of the top and wide sports clubs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fischl: This is what the sports associations, the roof associations are supposed to do!]] I am therefore against complete privatisation for the reasons just mentioned. On the problems raised with the umbrella organisations: This cannot be allowed to stand, because the meaning and purpose of the umbrella associations and the later BSO over it was to keep the sport away from the state influence, to try to establish a autonomy in sports, which is managed away from the state administration itself. I therefore believe that, with the call for a resolution, as he has repeatedly come from the liberals, one should be very careful, and I hope that this grayishness is over now, as you yourself sit at the tops of power. I believe that these associations would be broken down very quickly and would not be able to provide an adequate system for them. [[Abg. Fischl: Allow me to call!]] I therefore hope that these two objectives will be dropped over and over again by the FPÖ. In the field of sport, we are essentially not having a controversial discussion, but rather a very fruitful discussion. This is one of the few areas where it works. I have a very important point in the budget, although you could prove that the promotion of the disabled is not just a lip commitment. There are no budget posts for the promotion of the Paralympic Committee, which define the delivery and financing of the participation in the Paralympic Games, which will take place following the Olympic Games. I would therefore ask you, in every way, to give this Paraolimpic Committee money, so that even in Sydney, which is really a serious problem as regards arrival and logistics, participation is indeed secured. I say this not only in my capacity as a Member, but also as President of this Committee. I know that for these people real existential problems are related. These are mostly young people who have been torn out of life by social developments of our society, namely accidents, sickness, and find fulfillment in sports. I therefore believe that it should be disputed that these people should be allowed to participate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I hope that the FPÖ will refrain from its announced horrors in the field of sports, that the ÖVP will refrain from planlessness, and that we will come to constructive discussions for further development of sports. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14762	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14783	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Those who know me will believe that I am in the Sports Committee because I am enthusiastic about shooting goals in the FC Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not true. But it is also not true that a doctor is interested in sports medicine because he is walking with the suitcase on the field if the masseur no longer knows how to knock on the shoulder and say: It's not so bad, keep playing! There's really more to say. I'm trying to give an introduction seminar in sports medicine, so to speak, in the fast-galopp, so to speak, so that you can see how important it is, because it's my concern. For example, top athletes have recognized this very well. Hermann Maier trains exactly according to state-of-the-art training guidelines under the conditions of sports medicine. He also needs that, because with such stress a single mistake can end his career, a wrong training can be a year of lost effort. There are a lot of athletes who practice all year round and don't get better because they are simply not properly advised. There is no area where much diletation is done as in sports. But I don't want to talk about that now, but I want to explain to you what sports and medicine have to do with each other in the prophylaxis. And because I see Mr Van der Bellen right now: I always remember his speech in which he said that he should be left alone with the tobacco law, he would like to smoke a cigarette at the top of a mountain. I would give you the advice if you went back down from the summit to walk at the level in the Prater. You know why? - You're a professor. One of the most famous universities in the world – you will agree with me – is Harvard University. A study was conducted there in 18,000 graduates, which was observed for more than 13 years. Of those who made two to three hours of movement – I deliberately say not sport, but movement – in the form of faster walking or slow jogging, where one can still talk, or after the famous formula "180 minus age of life" for the pulse – I am 48, therefore a pulse of 132 would reach – there were 63 percent less heart attack. Ladies and gentlemen, that doesn't make a drug in the world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A city councillor in Vienna said to me on the occasion of a health fair, Doctor, you with your tablets – that's all stupid! [[Abg. Neudeck: But not Svihalek!]] I was with the internalist, he told me: Take something for blood pressure, take something for sugar, take something for overweight, take something for cholesterol! Then I went to my family doctor. He said: Take off and move! I've taken 20 kilograms and go hiking faster. I don't need any medication at all! This city council was right. So you don't have to look at Germany for Joschka Fischer. I do not look there anyway because he has not been so sympathetic to me because of his comments lately. But the concept is right. If you go further into the depths, you'll get something more on it, which you probably don't know: You can reduce the number of depressions and angstattacks by half – and that's very important – when you're running. This is possible only by running or jogging. We live in a world where everyone wants to be healthy and beautiful old. And that would actually be a reason to do sports. I would like to mention three points, why this is also very important politically. Sports instead of drugs! – I don’t know who shaped this term, but there are very good American studies, according to which schoolchildren who run sports, later have only half as often contact with intoxication as those who don’t. I think that has something to do with another self-confidence these children have. Second point: We always talk about the healthy boys, about the love of places and how they all call them idols. But sports would be especially important in old age! At age, a lot of friends die away, you have complaints, it hurts you all. There, sports as a means of combating loneliness, which is really a plague, would be particularly important in making new contacts while at the same time creating daily life without need of care. With very little exercise, if you start a little earlier, you could achieve that the need for care might be reduced. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: It would be healthier to make a round around Parliament!]] Third point: Children in America spend on average after school – I suppose the Austrian number is no different – four hours in front of television, internet and video games. If they use only one hour for movement, they could reduce the later rate of overweight by about 30 to 40 percent. Did you know that the heavy overweight – not a few kilograms, but the heavy overweight – causes health-political costs as much as cancers? Did you know – with that I also address the trade unions – that if you are being invalidated for a back pain that has actually begun damage about 30 years before? – For 30 years, the body blows more or less, but at some point the oven is out. But we usually do strategy in the end, we send the patient on spa, and he says: Doctor, it's up to me! – However, it would be much more useful if you intervene early, even in the early years. We actually live in extremism. Two thirds of the Germans and Austrians do not make any movement at all. They stand up in the early morning, sit in the car, sit in the office and then at home in front of the TV and believe it's sport when they play in front of the TV with the beer. 5 to 10 percent, in turn, have such a lot of sports that they run marathons; we have examples for this in Parliament. That is, the scissors is going apart: on the one hand, people doing too little, on the other hand, people I have to ask myself if this is always so healthy. Coming to a close. – First of all: We need an idol and a solid club base for broadband, otherwise nothing will touch us. Secondly, We also need the school factor to a huge extent. Thirdly, We need enormously improved sports medical care, not only for the top athletes, but also a level below. Fourth: We should be involved in research, in initiatives, but also in the Olympic Committee – it is a shame that Austria does not have a sports committee in the OOC. Mr Miedl has brought a very nice example of the park in Graz. Ladies and gentlemen! Sports is more than just a hobby of some crazy people running around with some ball. I am very glad that we now have a decisive minister for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14848	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14869	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I have listened with great interest to Mrs Vice-Chancellor's remarks and listened to what she intends to do in the next future in sports questions, in which areas she will be particularly active – top-level sports promotion and and and and. We've all heard it. Mrs. Vice chancellor! One area you did not address at all, the women, namely the promotion of women in sport. Thankfully, you have not reduced the appropriations for this; we have noted this after some intense debates in the Committee: The funds for women's promotion remain the same. Despite all this, I would like to make a proposal here today. Unfortunately, Mr Schweitzer is not there, who has always said that we should make constructive opposition policy. I offer a constructive proposal, and I would also like to present our concepts to you. Even if this area was not even worth a sentence to you, I think you may even welcome our proposals with joy and then perhaps implement them. I should also like to add that today I have also had talks with the Members of the Government about supporting an initiative, a motion for a resolution which I would like to make today, which refers specifically to the question of women's promotion in sport. I very much regret that this is not possible. And I regret that the ladies from FPÖ and ÖVP are not here. I think they should get in touch with the men in their associations to discuss with them why it is not possible for us to make appropriate proposals for women together here. [[Abg. Haller: Am I a man, Mrs. Colleague?]] I'm glad a lady's here. I know time's already advanced. [[Abg. Haller: You don't see that well anymore!]] The chapter may not be of such interest anymore. But especially women's promotion, a women's promotion plan in sport would be very, very important to all of us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the constructive proposals I would like to make to you: Unfortunately, the time is too short to present everything to you, but I will be happy to bring it to the next Sports Committee. A number of important points in the field of association and functionalisation: Women's representatives in all the roofs and professional associations would be necessary; a network for women's affairs should be created in all sports associations; a funding pot for mentor programmes, women working in top positions in sport, training is necessary, in training events, especially in the women's sector, belongs to investment and and and. There are still a lot of points, especially in science. Science should be the centre of its work specifically for women's research. Diplomal thesis and dissertations on women's specific issues in the field of sport should be promoted, as should all analyses, evaluations and representations of the situation of women in the various areas of sport. It would also be possible to set up an information exchange for women-specific research results. In the top sports field, it would be important to set out initiatives, for example, that more women than trainers for women and girls occur, and that more women – as Mr Ortlieb mentioned – also come to HSNS. But it cannot be that women in the sports sector receive only this one offer that they should go to the federal army so that they are socially insured. Especially on the way to the top sports area, it is particularly dramatic if a woman does not have social security. Often it is necessary for the family to help the whole family provide financial support. If such a woman still wants to reconcile family planning and top-level sports in the middle of her life planning, she is completely without help. All these proposals from our side would be for Maybe you're interested. I therefore ask everyone here to support the initiative to set up a women's promotion plan in sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Just one sentence, Mrs. Vice Chancellor! [[Call to the ÖVP: What about the men?]] Our support, our ideas for a women's promotion plan, which we have already collected, I am very happy to provide you with better support for women in sport and to ensure that you do not forget women in this important matter. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e14980	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Fischl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15004	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schasching, this motion for a resolution can and will certainly not support it as you have put it. Unlike you, we want to ensure that sports promotion – including the promotion of top athletes – is not defined in the future. This is not necessary either, because sports promotion as such – whether it was in the federal government, in the countries or in the municipalities – will never be gender-specific. Unless exceptions are required, these shall be taken into account anyway. I think that when it comes to setting up a new funding catalogue, you can talk about it because there are always vital needs of athletes. We want to meet these needs with sport promotion, and we will do so, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Shashing: It is obviously not so difficult...!]] Now I come to speak a little bit to colleagues Wittmann. He meant I'd written something about Karlheinz. It's true, yes, I'm in favour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] But the deeper sense of my message at the time was that this representative of a party is finally telling his party that it is time to stop with the socialists because it would be much more sensible to make sports policy with us once. [[Abg. Grabner: (in the direction of Abg. Now he's apologizing!]] We believe we can understand a little more, Mr Grabner. And so, Mr Karlheinz Kopf, I would also like to know in retrospect. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To Kartnig: Mr Grabner – and this also applies to colleagues Miedl from the ÖVP above – I respect, acknowledge and am also pleased with the performance of Sturm Graz. But that I don't necessarily feel sorry for Hannes Kartnig, you will understand, Mr Grabner. [[Abg. Nuremberg: Yes, because you always lose against him!]] What I notice at all – and it is nice to know that as the chairman of a committee – is that the members of this committee are really very humane, with the necessary respect, very sympathetic and kind to each other. I think that should be noted here. The discussions and the debates of the last few days were anything but sympathetic. In turn, it can be seen that sport is simply able to move more than – under quotation marks – "excess" politics. When I say "excess", I mean that sports policy is a different form of policy than it is found in real policy. I know what I'm talking about. I could talk about it for ten hours, as I was about ten years official of a large club. Mr. Khol, do you want anything from me? [[Abg. Dr. Khol points out, going to his place, to his watch.]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] You want to go home? [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I can't serve you with that. Or come now because I said: Head is headless? [[Abg. Grabner: Now he's caught!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me get a little more serious. I would like to focus a little on the history of sport promotion, so that I – thank you very much, Mr Khol! – can clarify the deeper meaning of my statements. [[Abg. Dr. Khol can be settled on his seat]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] I'm presuming what the deeper sense is: I would like to make it clear, with my remarks, that the flaws, which in part also exist in sport through the participation of sports policy and which have been partly articulated – I think only of colleagues Brosz, who expressed this finely – can understand a little bit more clearly. It is about 51 years since the wise rulers here in the House decided to use the Toto funds at that time to set up a federal budget dedicated to about 19 percent of the revenue from the Toto funds of sports promotion. At that time – at a time when you were playing football with the Fetzenlaberl more or less and were skiing with Fassdouben Ski – the decision over 19 percent of Toto funds was a remarkable, courageous decision of politics. This was a remarkable and courageous proof of the importance that sport had already taken at that time. The motives at that time were apart from the foundation of meaning – a professor said yesterday in this discussion in the Palais Ferstl; "Sinstiftung" is a beautiful word for sport – including national feeling, happiness, movement and competition. It was admittedly not quite the same motives as today, but we find these motives today, even though in a changed form. At that time, there was not this disunity between sports and material interest, at that time there was not the conflict money – sport – economy, but there was just the sport, there was the urge for movement. It's all different today. What is no different, ladies and gentlemen, are the structures. Essentially, the structures that were created thoughtfully and in real terms at the time have not changed. It was said under the basic conditions of spending money and promoting sports. The world of thought you are dealing with today has become no different. It has also become no different during the approximately three decades in which the Social Democratic Group has made sports policy – quite the contrary. It has been associated with the typical sermons of social-democratic considerations. Today we face the fact that we have a structural problem. Structural problem means that support and demand policy in sport is not suitable to meet today's conditions. We have a right of association that was created at a time when we shot the Colt in the Wild West and drove on horses. Today they still ride on horses, but shoot less with the Colt. One has to imagine, however, this: 150 years of an association right! This right of association has been renewed some 50 years ago or, more specifically, has been re-announced. The structures we had at the time can no longer meet today's requirements, but we still have the structures of that time. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Can we expect an addition?]] You can count on 34 minutes, Mrs Mertel. That's, I think, the rest of the time we still have. But I will leave a few minutes of it to my colleagues. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No, you can use this on your own!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mrs Mertel, look, I would like to tell you now that I was concerned when you spoke of propors and privileges. I'm trying not to use these terms here because sports is too important to me. I also save myself to answer what you said in your statement: A red-blue thread moves through the sport-proporz policy. I don't feel that way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Sport didn't touch me!]] Dear Mrs. Mertel! We politicians, who are particularly attracted to sports, want and will make every effort not to let privileges, pro-porz and such terms appear here. I believe that we should, and that is what we want, let me tell you, make modern mechanisms effective. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We should have a modern sports right, which not only regulates but also, in some way, provides autonomy. I am here with my predecessor, who meant that Mrs Vice-Chancellor wanted to break up associations. – That’s not true at all! An association is governed by Article 12 of the basic law of association autonomy. An association is an association, and that cannot be overthrown with the will of the state, with the will of Parliament. This is an important good that we have, and we will not avoid it either. In addition, no one has claimed that the Freedom Party wants... Mr Khol, please have You're sorry for me! It's important to me what I want to say. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Don't look so sad! I want to do it. I'll listen to you next time, too, without making any mimics. [[Abg. Grabner: He was bringing my colleague Trattner!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I come back to Article 12 of the Basic Law, which confirms and also after... [[Abg. Leikam: It's not a lecture today!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Perhaps you can learn something, Mr. Colleague, listen to me! But you don't know yourself in sports, you have also made an actual correction, which is none. I come back to Article 12, because to assume that we wanted to crush or erase the important instruments of sport is wrong. We want to modernise, adapt and adapt these instruments for the present time. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] We want to take into account, ladies and gentlemen, a sports law that not only regulates but also takes into account the vital needs of the participants in sports: the clubs, the individual athletes and all those who are interested in the good of sports, namely the functionals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Look at your colleagues who want to go home!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grabner! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Your government colleagues want to go!]] We want to find a constructive line. That's what we all want, that's what you want, I know. Especially you have been really committed to sports for many years, and you have to respect it. We want to find a constructive line, a great dialogue that we owe to the athletes, the athletes and the officials. Nothing but that is what we want, and no one will be prevented from bringing in ideas and giving thought so that we can achieve a better, optimal result for the athletes of this country. The result we have now is not satisfactory, I have said that here for eight years. Eight years one has not listened or wanted to hear it because one had been arrested in another world of thought for eight years: to sponsor with money, to distribute money according to the principle of foundry, to instrumentalize people and to stand as a bitter so that he remains willing and to do well what politics has to do. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Did you get through with the thought?]] Yes, Mrs. Mertel, I did! Mrs. Mertel, your brother played with us, imagine that! He has been successful in this association, imagine that! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Before your time!]] I too have been successful in this association. So don't talk stupidly! [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] If they make an intermediate call – I know I get an order call, I also accept it, thank you! – then a constructive one that serves the matter, Mrs Mertel! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Steibl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] No, I didn't! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Final... [[Congratulations and bravo call at the SPÖ.]] Finally, another 11 minutes, because it's about sports – we're going to be a little serious! [[Abg. Grabner: There is no such thing in the sport! It's over after 90 minutes!]] Mr Grabner, if you would like, I am still speaking 21. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Twice 15 minutes extension!]] It's just important to me that you don't seem to be anymore. Since you can no longer buy in sports, it is no longer important to you. That is why I should like to make an appeal to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Do you share the goodwill and the willingness of our group? Have the goodwill and the willingness of this government to engage constructively in a dialogue across the party borders so that we can do everything we can to create better, modern, attractive conditions for sport – whether it be new ways to open up money sources, to make the clubs more or less autonomous and ultimately to take more attention to broadband and less on top sports! Thank you. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15375	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15396	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and in the case of Minister of Sports! High house! Fortunately, sports play an important role in Austria. The long-term governance of SPÖ has contributed significantly to this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress that with sport I mean not only those sports that are favorite by the media, such as football, tennis, car racing and ski sports. Also all other sports, which often remain unnoticed in the public, have the same importance for me. For us Social Democrats, sport is an important part of life-building. Above all, it was one of our most important tasks to promote broadband and health sports in particular, which we have also been very successful. I would like to ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to continue to do so. At the same time, however, sports are exposed to dangers that cannot be underestimated, especially when violence and doping threaten the culture of sports. Therefore, state sports policy must ensure that the sports organisations can create and enforce rules to prevent doping. In view of the health and social importance of sport, the government is invited to protect, promote and ensure sport through appropriate funding and framework conditions, but not to take the economic factor of sport as an action ceiling. Privatizations go in the wrong direction. Especially the planned privatisation of the federal sports facilities is counterproductive. I know, Madam Minister, you assured the Committee that privatisation will not be possible. I wish it would stay that way. Under the Social Democratic Government, it was decided that the social and sports aspects should be ensured in the management of the federal sports institutions and that they should not be converted into sports hotels. As a long-term sports officer – I am one of the few, and I believe that we have been somewhat misunderstandingd in our motion for a resolution – I would like to say what we want. The women are under-represented in the club's affairs, and we want more women to participate as officials in the sports sector. [[Abg. Fischl: Because the graver no longer allows!]] As a long-term sports official, even though in the Judo and Jiu-Jitsu, as well as as as a member of the Board of Directors of the General Sports Association of Burgenland, I know from my own experience how important the federal sports facilities are for our clubs and especially for our athletes. The stay in these facilities is a sports promotion in the special sense. These homes are not civil servants' homes, I would like to have found out here. My special relationship is the Federal Sports and Leisure Centre Hintermoos. For a long time, this federal sports institution has been running a mural flower existence, but has been renovated in recent years and adapted to the required standard today. Especially the triple gym offers training opportunities for many sports. The five tennis courts and the beautiful landscape of the Salzburger Land are often used by the members of the clubs. The exclusion has also caused the guest to make an effort, and above all, to use the house. That's, I think, very positive. However, privatisation would certainly not be in place. I would ask you to consider this. Each of us knows how important financial support is for our associations. I fear, however, that the priorities set here by the government will make our sports clubs tremble – at least 12 000 – around survival. Sports must continue to be able to afford, it must not and should not be reserved for an elite! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are therefore in favour of promoting the clubs of broadband, which must not threaten the fate of the balding. We will not allow that to happen, Mrs. Federal Minister. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15448	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15477	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot about sports today, and I do not want to repeat anything – the time is relatively advanced – but just to sum up: I believe that after a long time there will once again be a consensus in this Parliament on the importance of sport to the economy, the importance of sport for Austrian tourism and the importance of sport for the labour market. Once again, this is very encouraging: Unit in this house! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Shortly addressed to Mrs. Schasching – unfortunately, she is not here. [[Abg. Schasching: (winking from another seat by hand) Very close!]] Oh, no, no, no, no, – You can already count the Women’s Promotion Plan you have addressed on the Federal Government’s balance sheet. I should like to remind you that since 1996 there have been 3 million schilling available for women's promotion, but there has been no concrete plan since 1996. I think Mrs Vice-Chancellor needs no instructions from you and no deadlines, she herself knows what to do. I am firmly convinced that she will present the plan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Shaking:... without any cooperation!]] I would like to draw attention to the comments made by my colleague, Mr Kopf, who has already pointed out today that sports promotion in Austria is on very good feet. – I can only confirm this, and I am pleased that there will be an additional 20 million schillings annually by 2002, and you can assume that we will value that this 20 million schilling funding will continue every year after 2002! The sport in the club area is also important. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has already confirmed that there are more than 12,000 clubs with more than 2.5 million members in Austria. One aspect of the associations I would like to conclude: Especially in the sports clubs there is a great deal being done in the field of youth work, because at the end of the day many young people find a second home in sports clubs and learn team spirit and responsibility. In this sense we continue to work for sports here in Austria and for our youth!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15543	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15564	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rasinger referred to Mrs. Vice-Chancellor as "pervasive". [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Yes!]] I mean, it took a long time to get the right budget in sports matters. I would definitely like to thank you for the right figures, but I would like to say that, as I said, it took a few days for Members of this House to receive the right figures. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] In any case, the figures in the Accompanying Act have not voted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You can say a lot about sports. My previous speaker has already pointed out that much has already been said about it. But I mean that one – Mr. Klubobmann Andreas Khol! – can still tell a lot about the sport. Mr Fischl, the chairman of our sports committee, has already pointed out this very explicitly. I believe that it is precisely the problems of sports law that should be discussed in principle, because they include economic and labour law issues, and I am looking forward to the discussion in the Sports Committee on precisely these issues! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address a number of specific issues. If you look at the blue-black government pact, you will find a lot of promises in it. However, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, in order to say it clearly, there has not yet been any specifics! There are not yet any proposals for a general sports law, and there is still relatively little else. I wonder in which direction this sports policy should go. As you know, I come from Salzburg, and I now see colleagues Böhacker, who as a fan also confesses to the future Cup winner of the year 2000 desert red Salzburg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] That is why I would like to say that I was particularly concerned that I had to say today that the Freedom Party in the federal state of Salzburg has spoken out against the new construction of the stadium. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Completely unnecessary!]] I know that there will be a big conversation on the 25th. But I miss a clear position of the Freedom Party in my federal state on this stadium! The Freedom Party has so far rejected every location! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few other aspects of sport that I have already addressed in the Committee: I'm talking about the state sports laws. I am concerned about why there are different regulations in the field of training for national ski teachers and snowboard teachers. You certainly remember the accident in the Mühlbach valley, in Kaprun: The events there were the result of a national legislation which provides for free driving on the grounds. This is true in Salzburg and Tyrol; in the other federal states, on the other hand, it is not. With this in mind, I note that we must achieve a uniformity in this area! Another area that interests me particularly is the future of gambling and gambling. We hear that the P.S.K. share is to be sold, and it is now about the basic question of how to secure general sports promotion. If you look at the development that "sport bets" and "bets from other occasions" are offered over the Internet and via satellite, there is absolutely a need for action in this respect, for the countries. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this area is currently within the competence of the countries, and if someone wants to have a concession, he goes, of course, where the lowest conditions are given, for example in the Federal Republic of Carinthia. You have announced in your government program that you will. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I urge you to ensure that there is a regulation here, in order to protect the people who bet but also to protect the facilities that are betted! Finally, one last remark: The creation of a general sports law in Austria will only be possible with the involvement of the European legal discussion. This concerns the problems of aid, questions of the future of national teams, questions of freedom to provide services, but also questions of doping. The S & D Group will certainly cooperate offensively and develop its own positions in these forthcoming work, which the government has now announced at least once. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15636	Mr Böhacker spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15661	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr Mag. Johann Maier, the top consumer protection officer in Salzburg, stated here a few minutes ago that the liberals in the country and in the city of Salzburg oppose the establishment of a new football stadium in Salzburg. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What's true!]] - That's not true. It's true, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, that the liberals are very likely to stand out for the construction of a new stage in Salzburg, but not at the currently planned location in front of Kleßheim Castle!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15704	The next speaker was Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15726	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I agree with your comments. Your claim that wrong budget figures have been submitted by my department is incorrect. ==References== April took over responsibility for sports, and the figures in the budget chapter Sport, which was drawn up in my responsibility, were entirely correct. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you ask what direction the sport is going in and what has not been done in the first three months, I expressly apologize to you that we have not implemented 100 percent of the government programme in the first three months! But if you give me another three months, maybe I can assure you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question of stadium Salzburg – and I would like to ask you very warmly now because I am very concerned about this – you have said that it is important whether the FPÖ Salzburg or FPÖ is in general for it or not. Unfortunately, I have to tell you: In this respect, you are arrested in an old thought. For me, it is not a matter of which parties are for or against this stadium, but for me it is a matter of whether the promotion guidelines and conditions are fulfilled, because I will make my decision on this basis alone. To colleagues Grabner and the associations: What is always a little forgotten in your presentation of the association policy in Austria is that it is not just about the excellent achievements of the many volunteer officials that we have in Austria, which is very political and party-political. I just give you a small example from my personal experience: When I took over my department, I invited a young employee from the ASKÖ to work with me in the cabinet, and he would have liked to do that too, but answered me that he could not do it, because he would be through at the ASKÖ once and for all. That is the problem, Mr Grabner. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] That's why I'm going to: The party policy must get out of the associations and get out of sports in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] The appointment of the Secretary-General of the Sports Assistance will take place in the next days. We've been working for an independent staff consulting office that the candidates have tested in a hearing. Three of them will have another hearing to exist, and the best candidate will be selected by them. This too is a new access. Of course, I could have done it very easily, Mr Grabner, and I could have just chosen the one that is most sympathetic to me. However, it matters to me that the best gets this function! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A word on Mr Brosz's comments from the Greens, which I can in fact agree with in almost everything he has said: You have also agreed to me in almost everything, and therefore I do not fully understand why you are voting against the budget. I regret this because we have found that we are in the matter! Obviously you must not vote otherwise what I regret! Nevertheless, I thank you for your honest words! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, Mr Wittmann, who also referred to the privatisation of the Bundessportheime. Mr. Dr. Wittmann, you know that we have already discussed this question. I have told you that it is important to me that the purpose of the funding is fully maintained and that we evaluate which form of organisation is the best. We will do so tabooly, and therefore, from the outset, there can be no fundamental yes or no on this question. But as soon as the results of the study are available, I will let you know! Moreover, you know very well that for the Paraolimpic Games there is of course a financing in the area of general funding, as well as for the Special Olympics. You know it and you need to know it because you've handled it like that yourself. I would therefore ask you to take this into account if I am just telling you that the funds are available! I call Mrs Schaschnig. [[Abg. Shasching: My name is Schasch ing!]] Sorry! Mrs Schasching! One word on women's promotion: You know very well that we have a budget approach that is moving in this direction and with which we are promoting precisely these projects! That is why I feel an additional request from you to support it, but it is not necessary. And if, as your colleague said, it is about promoting women in the association structures, then you have to go to Mr Grabner, because then I am the wrong address! Finally, Mr Wittmann, who spoke of the "grievances" of the new Federal Government in the sports sector. – I don’t know what to do about it, if you bring more transparency and openness into the promotion policy and the sports organisations to depoliticization, step up the fight against doping and create a sports sponsoring and a sports channel. I don't know what to do with it! You are most likely, Mr Wittmann, that you are no longer in the government. You may regret this, I do not regret it, and I do not think sports in Austria regret it either!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15829	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15847	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! These clear, encouraging words of the Vice-Chancellor do good to one who is sports politician, sports officer and also a bit of sports scientist. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs Sports Minister! Stay on this road! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] You have in us the best competitors you can wish for! There is technical competence in our group, but also on the part of the other groups, also on the part of the Greens, as I have heard today, which has particularly impressed me. Go the way of depoliticization of sport! The horrific story that Mr. Gerhard Kurzmann told us at the beginning of the debate on Lösnak's intervention in Salzburg could continue without fail in the entire Austrian sport, because here there was only a criterion of excretion, even in the civil service in your area, namely: If you have the right color, then you are suitable. Rooms Get up with it! You've got in us fellow fighters! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! A final word in continuation of your statements concerning the umbrella organisations: Since we've been here, we've been trying to convince ourselves that the umbrella associations have actually served in this form in sports. When Mr Grabner says that there are so many officials who are taken up for the roof associations, I say: These officials work for the trade unions. Politically organized umbrella associations have only a function, namely to distribute publicly available funds according to a key that has remained unchanged for 49 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Grabner! If you claim only 100 S annual fee from your 1.17 million members, you can distribute 101.7 million schilling according to your opinion. If this association, the umbrella association, has brought in these funds, then he should also spend them, but he should leave the fingers of the public funds and the form of distribution as it has been practiced so far! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] That would be the future! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15915	The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e15936	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I can promise you Friday's salutation, but since I cannot speak as quickly and above all as Polish as you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, I have to limit myself to three points of view. Your colleague's head! If you are already in contact with Frank Stronach in advance obedience to your Minister of Finance, Frank Stronach, and are still sorry about how much Stronach may have to deliver to us, my tears will be limited! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Frank Stronach comes from my hometown of Weiz, and in a logical persecution of his professional rise, I can certainly say that Frank Stronach does only things with which he earns a lot of money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The tears come to me when I think about which channels the silent commissions flow from the great profits. I'm thinking about that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] It is! Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Today, a lot has been said about the roof associations. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Grollitsch said: Dissolve, get out of it! This is a sign to me that sports policy and social policy influences should be removed, and that party-political considerations should be taken into account from the point of view of the liberals. That's your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the funding: Unfortunately, in Austria we have very little industry that will be able to support sport – Mr Fischl will be able to confirm it – in a sustainable way. You are still destroying the last industry in Austria with your politics, and if you believe that foreigners as new owners of the Austrian industry will promote sports in Austria, then be fooled! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're an alien!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! If You are talking about overbureaucratisation here in this House, then I can tell you the following: All the numbers put on one point...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16035	Ladies and gentlemen! I think the speaker should also have the opportunity to be heard at the end of the day!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16051	There are 111 major members and 200 000 volunteer volunteers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Talking about overbureaucratisation and trying to turn the money on them is a blow to the face of our deserved officials and our athletes! I hope they will strike back, at the earliest in the next election, dear friends!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16093	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16114	Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. High house! You might think you're in a boxarena! But, hopefully, it's not going to happen today! Let us now come back to the healthier things of life, namely, really to sport! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Dear Noldi Grabner! I'm done right now, I've really reduced my contribution. I'm quoting: "Sport has enormous importance for health care, for the development of personality, for social integration, for national or regional identification, and for the development of the relevant economic sectors and the labour market. The promotion of sport is therefore a health, social, economic and employment-related task." So it is in the government programme of February 2000, and I can guarantee you that these are not empty words, but that this confession will also be implemented! You have already heard some facts from my previous speakers from the ÖVP, but also from the FPÖ. I would like to address those points that make sport important for health care and for integration into society. In contrast to the SPÖ, which advertises in the election campaign for the AK elections in Styria with the slogan "Health for Riches", I am for open and honest politics, wondering if the representatives of the SPÖ believe that the rich can buy their health. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] No, no, no, You can't buy health, but there are many ways to live healthier, and this includes sports in the first place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a politician, we have the obligation to create as good a framework as possible. The conditions are already very good in top-level sports – you could see the remarks made by my colleague's head. In the field of broadband, however, the conditions are even less good. There is still a lot to do in this area. However, rural communities are severely affected by the lack of financial resources. That is why the rapid abolition of the unconstitutional population key for financial adjustment is essential! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is necessary, even if the financial councillor of the city of Vienna, Mrs. Ederer, threatens with "war", as a result of an interview in the last issue of the "NEWS". With this statement the SPÖ proves absolute democratic incomprehension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Is this threat with a war between the city of Vienna and the small communities about the new style? Is the SPÖ trying to force the Federal Government to kneel with the threat of civil war? With such threats, we will not let ourselves be interrupted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A new star opens up: Zweytick!]] Of course, the "Healthy Austria" fund, initiated by the ÖVP, which provides 100 million schilling annually from the sales tax for cigarettes for health-preventive projects, is also open to sport. One way to practice sports offers the countless clubs. The non-profit associations are the main pillars of the sport. In its entirety, the sports clubs are the largest voluntary and active organization in our country. The voluntary Community service associated with the Office is an essential element of the civil society sought by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That is why we are in favour of the budget!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] At this point I thank all the volunteer sports staff throughout Austria! Hundreds of thousands of people in the field of services, tourism, on the streets have been trying daily for weeks and months to do what you have been missing for months: to promote Austria positively, to praise the cultural advantages of this country and its charming, beautiful landscapes. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Hannes! Look at the watch and stop!]] However, you fail to help yours to do so! [[Abg. Grabner: Continue, Hannes! Keep going, Hannes!]] [[Arousing lively calls at the SPÖ.]] At last, people expect that you too will oppose these sanctions from the SPÖ, especially when you go abroad. That's what you should stick to! Do the people in the Republic of Austria a favor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Lively calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] There are still a few unbundled sports that have increased significantly in recent years, such as cycling or scooter skating. These sports are essential factors in tourism and represent forward-looking economic areas. High house! I wish you a nice evening – and a lot of sports a weekend! Support our sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16266	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. - Please. I'm allowed to add: The noise level here does not shorten the speeches, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16299	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I spoke once again because you said that I probably would not agree to this budget. [[Live calls and calls between representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] I would like to say once again – and we will probably agree on that – that the objectives you have so far mentioned have not yet been implemented and cannot yet be implemented. I give you the time to do that! However, I can offer you that we will make our approval of the next sports budget dependent on whether these objectives, which we have identified in many areas, will also be implemented. I do not see the possibility in this year's budget yet, but it can be different for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16344	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16363	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the last speaker, I will be very brief, but first of all I would like to say: In the budget debate on today and also on the last two days, almost everything the new Federal Government has planned for the House was presented as bad, disturbing, disappointing, painful and so on. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] It was claimed that there were no innovative approaches and that uncertainty had widened in the population. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's right!]] Children, students, young people, sick people, pensioners, workers, almost every professional group and every age group – they are all called losers, they are supposed to be asked to cash out. If one takes seriously the debates of some SPÖ and some Green Members, one could assume that the Republic is just ahead of the abyss, and all this is because the Social Democrats are no longer on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! So much black painting doesn't even have place on the famous cow's skin! High house! Some red and green Members have misused this budget debate for personal attacks and abuses on Members of the Free Party and for the diffamation of the same. In particular, our colleague Dr. Martin Grafdiffamed. Deputies Dr. Grünewald, Schasching, Oillinger and Mag. Worms have shown that they are true masters in the discipline "diffamers". Maybe this will be your sport! ==References====External links== In May of this year, Social Democracy said: [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Get out of here! Money away! The hatred of the liberals remains! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This budget 2000 can be seen from a point of view, from the point of view of rehabilitation. This reorganisation is necessary because the house of Austria has big cracks in the budget that need to be repaired in order to avoid permanent damage. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Next page!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As Neo-Deputy in this House, I still hope that the opposition will be interested in constructive cooperation with the government parties for the benefit of all citizens in this state. The future will show whether my hope was justified or not!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16441	Deputies! I didn't understand the words exactly, but if it's true that you have referred to some other colleagues as "masters of diffamation", that's a violation of the rules of the house. In this case, I would give you an order call. In view of the situation that I can no longer request the minutes, however, I distance myself from them and would like to point out this violation in this way. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] [[Further calls.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Special Rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the XIII advisory group of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 70 of the Federal Proposal in 60 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus adopted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group on XIII of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Beate Schasching and comrades on the preparation of a women's promotion plan. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-12-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00024_d7e16532	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 158/A and 159/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 767/J to 788/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Tuesday, 16. The following agenda was adopted on 9 May 2000 at 9 a.m.: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements). The Advisory Group IX, Transport, Innovation and Technology, and the Advisory Group V, Justice will be consulted. There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
