ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1735	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 47. Meeting of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] Mr Kostelka spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1768	Mr President. I raise objections according to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure against the agenda. It is widely known that BSE is becoming ever closer to Austria, that a disease that was originally considered a phenomenon of Great Britain has in the meantime been preoccupied up to the borders of Austria, that Austria itself is no longer considered to be risk-free, but is only more classified in the hazard zone 1. We are convinced that it is urgently necessary to take action in this context in Austria. We also believe that political debate is necessary. I therefore request in accordance with § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, in place of the last item on the agenda today, namely the Advisory Group XIII: Public performance and sport, the Advisory Group VIII: Agriculture, forestry, water management and the environment will be consulted and the Advisory Group XIII, scheduled for today, will be held on Wednesday, 6. ==References====External links== This is a necessity in the interests of safety in Austrian food and health safety in Austria. It is necessary to act, and I therefore request that the agenda be changed accordingly. The up-to-date nature of this problem is forcing this to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1801	More word messages on business treatment? – Mr Dr. Khol, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1823	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have actually reached agreement on this agenda at the President-in-Office's Conference. However, BSE is of course a serious question. The competent ministers of Molterer and the head are in discussions. Minister Molterer has offered to report to the Committee meeting tomorrow. In addition, the chapter on agriculture will be discussed. There is also a meeting of the Federal Government. I believe that we can discuss this question this week, and I believe that there is no need for a change in the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1847	Ladies and gentlemen! If an application for a change in the agenda is made in the course of an objection debate, vote shall be taken. That is what the Rules of Procedure require. I would like to mention the possibility of § 50 para. In this debate, 1 GO makes use of reducing speaking time to 5 minutes and limiting the number of speakers to a maximum of three per group. I don't see any other possibilities. There seems to be no way to act otherwise in this case. That is to say, we shall vote on this motion for a resolution and we shall carry out the limited debate in advance. Objections against the agenda as set out in § 50(1) of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1873	First word message: Mrs Sima. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e1895	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! In France already 97 herds were slaughtered for BSE suspicions this year. In Great Britain, the number of BSE cases is increasing, even in Germany there are already first BSE cases. Diseased people die of this disease in these countries; and that is only because – and this is completely perverse and against nature – ground animal carcasses are mixed in feed and fed to farm animals. Feeding ground animal carcasses is also common practice in Austria, as you all know. Everyone can easily buy animal meal from us and feed animal meal. Chickens, pigs, fish and poultry are still fed daily with animal meal, and it is also not to be excluded that the purchased animal meal is still fed to ruminants. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this practice is absolutely unresponsible and, on the other hand, something has to be done at last. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] One should really think that the responsible and responsible politicians have finally learned to draw the consequences from the BSE crisis and ensure that this absolutely reluctance practice is finally stopped. But that's not the case. In the last few days, I could only wonder: The Minister of Agriculture Molterer and the Minister of Consumer Protection were just the head and defended this common practice. That's just incredible! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] It has always failed the resistance of the agricultural lobby and the Minister Molterer. If you want to change something, do it, you finally have the opportunity to do so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Germany and France have now reacted very quickly and have generally withdrawn animal meal and declared a general ban on it. Animal meal must no longer be fed on farmed animals in these countries – because it is not certain whether it somehow enters the food chain for ruminants and triggers BSE. Before the BSE crisis, it was thought that it was easy to feed animal meal on ruminants. That was the fatal and deadly error. The same thing is happening again with the other animals. [[Abg. Wenisch nickt.]] Mr Commissioner, if you are already nagging with your head, then do something, you will agree to a general animal meal ban! I have looked at the APA reports in recent years yesterday. It has always been the first to demand an animal meal ban. Now they are in government, but now Mr. Head is standing up and saying: Well, in Austria everything is safe, there is no problem at all with it. We don't have BSE cases. - That's incredible! Also have at EU level She declared herself against BSE rapid tests a week ago. Please, how am I supposed to interpret that? It's just being maimed, it's just being swung off. What kind of policy is that supposed to be? It is about our health, but it is operated on with cost arguments. It's in the question of BSE fire on the roof, but you're insulting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government also have the opportunity to express their views here. I would really be very polite to ask you to answer these my questions: How long do you want to watch without harm? How long do you want to allow ground animal cadavers to land in our food chain? How long? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grollisch.]] You, Mr Grollitsch, know very well that Mrs Prammer der Welter has tried to get animal meal out of the food chain. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wenitsch: There I can only laugh!]] Unfortunately, this has always failed with the massive resistance of the ÖVP. But now you have the opportunity to bite out your teeth at your government partner. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The BSE insanity has method, it is said in today's issue of the "Economic Sheet". In view of the incredible arguments that fall into this context, I can only underline that. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't put your head in the sand! There is no single argument for the use of animal meal in the food chain. Finally forbid the feeding of animal meal to all farm animals and protect the health of the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2000	Please, Mr Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2021	Mr President. In similar cases in the Presidential, we have already talked several times about the fact that debates on objections to the agenda are about the reason why we want a different agenda. In Mrs Sima's speech, the word "daily regulation" has not occurred once. I ask you to make sure that the matter is discussed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2060	Mr Khol is in principle right. However, I am, among other things, reluctant for the following reason: For example, when I asked the clubman of the liberals to speak on the matter, his answer was: You do not want to hear that up there, Mr President. – I remember that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What was that now? I haven't spoken yet today!]] That was six weeks ago, and my memory goes back so long, my colleague. – Mr Dr. Khol and I have talked about this question afterwards. But I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, that in the debate, even if it is focused on a matter related to the explanatory statement, every speaker expresses that and why he wants an amended agenda. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic is speaking by turning to one of the microphones attached next to the seats and lifting her hand.]] Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, is this a word in the debate or a word on business treatment? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Business treatment!]] Please, just a moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2106	I think, Dr. Khol, that it is not a matter of whether the word "day order" is mentioned, but rather of making it clear whether a matter, a new circumstance has such urgency and such brilliance that it appears justified to change the agenda of the House. I believe that a possible risk to health is always a reason to change today's agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2139	Ladies and gentlemen! We don't need to discuss this any more now. All those who speak in the debate are urgently asked to explain why they are in favour of an amended agenda. Next, Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2166	Ladies! Gentlemen! High house! We believe that the agenda has been prepared responsibly. It was adopted unanimously in the President-in-Office's office. It has already been pointed out that the two responsible ministers will be very responsible in accepting these things, discussing measures in this regard, and continuing the previous excellent Austrian policy on BSE freedom. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Sima! We had to give up three days in the high house last week. I couldn't see you here. You were, I heard, in The Hague. Hopefully have They do not inspect the agricultural factories in the sense of support. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to hit small coins out of a undoubtedly serious problem, ladies and gentlemen, this is more than cheap and not responsible to the population and to the Austrian agriculture alike. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, Austria is not an island of the Blessed, of course we also need to be careful, but we all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the feeding of animal meal on cattle in Austria has been prohibited for some time in contrast to France and Germany. But Mrs Sima, in her speech, praised France and Germany's actions. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's probably not scurrying. I guess that's more than scurry. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It must be a national concern for us to tackle the BSE problem. Of course, this can only be done in cooperation and cross-border. And there can and must also be said a sentence towards the European Union: In connection with BSE, the European Union has simply failed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That must be noted. If one had been on the road in the field of BSE as for example, as was the case with the observation of Austria, then perhaps many things would have been used for the better. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If one had been concerned in the European Union about where the 70 billion schillings have disappeared, which are ensnared in dark canals, if one had used this 70 billion schilling, for example, to combat BSE, then perhaps there would not have been some happening there or there. Ladies and gentlemen! A set also at the price level for meat in total: One reason for this BSE chaos is, among other things, the policy of multinationals in the meat sector, which constantly suggests to consumers, cheaper, cheaper, cheaper. In this way, Austrian agriculture is also broken, in which on average eight cattle are fed. In our small-structured agriculture, excellent quality is produced, but with this price policy, this small-structured agriculture is broken with excellent quality. But in Austria we will not join us in the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that a serious answer to this serious problem can only be that the government is serious about it – and it is doing so – and that it is reporting it to Parliament in committee. I appeal to the opposition not to shape severances here, which will not bring glory to the Austrian economy and to consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2253	The next speaker in the debate on the amendment to the agenda is Mrs Petrovic. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2275	Mr President. Estimated members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! Yesterday I received numerous calls from acquaintances, from uncertain parents, from citizens, and I have also been addressed today on my way to the Parliament by people on the subway, and all these people have asked me the question: What's happening now? Are you now talking about the role of Austria in Europe in the fight against animal diseases? – I think it really only seems to be the result of the government’s logic that you say: We have set a agenda, and sausages, what happens out there, and no matter what the newspapers write, how big people's concerns are, we have this agenda and stay there! – This is a Parliament that does not perceive the wishes and concerns of the public. You should change that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Haigermoser once again did not miss the opportunity to get rid of general anti-EU resentment here from the speaker's desk. Mr Haigermoser, perhaps you will come up with some information. The European Parliament has been talking for much longer, and now again, about the measures that are needed in this context, and it is there as well as here, that the economic conservatives are preventing really necessary steps. In particular, it is green people who are constantly taking up this debate. I now quote a sentence that has fallen in this regard in the European Parliament: "Today are those who claim to have no cases of insanity in their territory, those who do not seek." – Against this background, the Austrian voice against far-reaching early tests really appears to be a sign of extreme responsibilitylessness! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Haigermoser! Unfortunately, it will not be possible to prevent the money from being used once again to correct symptoms, to a superficial retus of this insane policy of the agro-industrial industry, because it will be necessary. But in fact, I had just expected your party, which was so loud in its opposition time, to do so – in quick and determined steps! – prepared a general exit from this agricultural industry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there seems to have been a lot of changes in the liberals since their entry into government. I quote the answer to a written question from 17th century. July 2000 – that is, she is not even six months old – by Minister of Health a. D. Dr. Sickl. She answered them in knowledge of all the cases of disease. It died of the 100 people. Maybe you've also seen interviews with parents of children who have died. I believe that this would all justify the changeover to the agenda today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What does the now retired Federal Minister – your former Federal Minister! – on the question of animal and bone flour? – I quote: "The issue of disease-safe disposal of animal bodies has always been the main focus in Austria. Thus far, it was possible to obtain Austria free of animal feed that could be transmitted by insufficiently prepared feed." As I said, we're not making comprehensive tests. Perhaps this explains freedom too. And by the way, it says: "By the corresponding processing of raw materials of animal origin" – and now it comes! – "These include the Ended Animals – it is possible to obtain valuable protein feed." Dead animals as valuable feed – after prost meal!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2362	The next speaker in the debate is Mr Schwarzenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2383	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I can't understand why the fact that the agricultural budget is coming on Wednesday and on 6 June, respectively. It will be decided on December or today that there will be any change in the risk of BSE in Europe. In addition, I must also draw attention to Klubobmann Kostelka's fact that the budget decision only takes legal power with the third reading. In any case, that's only 6th. In December, the agricultural budget will be decided on. - That's one. Secondly, The Austrians should know what they have on their farmers. Austria was the first country in Europe, which had already decided in 1989, when there was no thought of BSE, to ban the feeding of animal meal to ruminants. That is, cattle that have been born in Austria since 1990 have not received animal meal as a feed. In this case, Austria has taken a pioneering role in all EU countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want a European solution. The fact that there have already been more than 170 000 BSE cases in England, even in France over 100, while there was no BSE case in Austria, proves that in Austria we have maintained a natural agriculture in the interests of consumers, which was partly also associated with higher costs for our farmers. This should also be recognised, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We therefore want a European solution. The Council of Agriculture Ministers will take part on 4 May. In December, this matter was dealt with. We also want the surpluses in the agricultural sector in the EU to be made available for this purpose in order to ensure increased health throughout Europe. The costs should not again be charged to Austrian farmers. I understand that animals like dogs and cats have nothing at all to look for there. Another question is the recovery where the meat is prepared for consumption. The disposal of waste in carcases, bones and parts of the skin should not be carried out at the expense of farmers, as this costs more than the proceeds from the sale of meat when treated as special waste. I believe that this should be paid by the EU, i.e. by Europe, in the interests of Europe's health. We are of course in favour of a regulation. As a farmer's representative, I say quite openly here: We have little interest in maintaining what is already forbidden in the feeding of cattle in poultry, pig and fish feeding. We won't defend such a thing. Instead, we are in all areas for natural production. However, this must be Europe-wide, for otherwise we would have a location disadvantage that we could not afford. Finally, there would be no farmers in Austria. Many social democrats say we could import the food cheaper. You now see what is going on in Europe and what we have on the Austrian farmers. I therefore believe that what has been called for in the debate is that the agenda should be changed and the agricultural budget today rather than on 6 June. It will be decided on December that no BSE case in Europe would be prevented.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2444	The next speaker in the debate on opposition to the agenda is Mr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2465	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! It is quite clear to the Socialist Group why we are holding this debate on the change to the agenda. It is about responsibility for Austria, for the health of the Austrians. Mr Khol! If you claim that a committee will deal with this issue tomorrow, I ask you: Which committee? There is no committee to deal with this issue tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: An offer!]] I am also allowed to answer the comments made by Mr Schwarzenberger, who asked why we want this issue to be discussed today. He actually said it: ==References== The Council of Agriculture Ministers will take place in December 2000. But we want to discuss it today. The Minister for Agriculture should know the opinion of this House, the political parties in Austria, on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Last week the world was different in Germany. Germany was BSE-free. Austria is also BSE-free. I emphasize "yet", my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and refer to a letter from David Byrne, Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection. This letter, I quote, refers on the one hand to the scientific assessment that BSE infection cannot be excluded in any Member State. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This letter should be given a closer look at each other. It is addressed to Mrs. Federal Minister other than Service Sickl and to Mr Wilhelm Molterer, Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. What is the content of this letter? – The content is the answer to a letter from the two in which it, because Austria is said to be BSE-free, is an exception from the 1. In October 2000 the specified risk material was removed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear farmers' representatives, listen carefully! Sickl and Molterer have tried to reach an exception because Austria is said to be BSE-free, just as until last week Germany. [[Call the ÖVP: Is it too!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Not only "presumptuous", but indeed!]] Germany has also believed it, and yet the first BSE case has occurred. – A particularly "farmer-scrupulous letter" by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and Federal Minister Molterer. I think this letter is an absolute scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction SPÖ) You wanted to ruin and criminalise the farmers!]] [[Call of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Abg. May. Prammer) Why didn't you step back then?]] But again, to address colleagues Schwarzenberger, who meant: Yeah, yeah, a pan-European solution. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! If the EIA speaks of a Europe-wide solution, then each project will be delayed, especially in this case where the international agricultural lobby is behind it. Mr Schwarzenberger, do you think that a regulation can be made within a very short time? . I say, no, we have to put in place our measures in the national field, and this federal government is called upon to do so. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We already have the ban!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We Socialists want to talk about this issue today, for this very reason. Scenarios in England speak of possibly hundreds of thousands of dead in the next few years. We therefore believe that we need to discuss the ban on feeding animal meal, on comprehensive BSE early tests and early detection tests. We also need to talk about how the powers of the European Food Agency can be expanded so that they can intervene directly in the national field. And now I have a proposal from the ÖVP, namely a proposal from Mr Wurmitzer from Carinthia. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also discuss an import ban on live bovine animals from France! This must be worth the health of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2597	The next speaker in the debate was Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2618	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! I think a Parliament is there to learn, and there are plenty of reasons for this. Let's take a look at the UK! In the final report by Lord Philip, the British Government's action on BSE control and education was strongly criticised. I think that's a big thing – can I talk? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is also a Labour government that does nothing for consumers!]] – We should not be on the agenda for mistakes. I believe that thinking and responsibility should, however, be the subject of a good agenda. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Careful, it says, is the mother of the porcelain box, and therefore has to hurry. This should be understood by all whose thinking is not grieved by excessive enjoyment of acidic beef. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is known that Austria, Switzerland and Sweden voted in favour of an extension of comprehensive BSE tests in the EU in January this year. So the propaganda of the "island of the Blessed" in real politics is not so glorious. It is a fact that the species boundaries have been exceeded. It is fact that the transmission of BSE and possibly other infections beyond these bovine ruminants has proved to be scientific on pigs, cats and humans. It is not to be excluded – and there are some data for it – that BSE can be transmitted through medicines, vaccines and blood products. Panic is not indicated and would be irresponsible. But to start panic means to keep silent, delay and impoverish. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We can learn from Great Britain by showing in the last "Report" that the selection of scientists, the non-observance of captured scientists, non-special scientists, the consequences of outlays and loss of control by the state on essential quality management instruments that are inseparable. It is fact that for almost six years only those opinions of scientists in the public were propagated by the government that produced their accepted answers and lobbying answers. I also read in a press release of the "Agricultural Service of Austria" – I think, that's what he's called – about a scientist who speaks for the intrusion. He has a right in many things, but it looks a little too bad when scientists get to grips on drugs, disease, lodenmocks and that comes completely indifferent, if not guaranteed by our ministries, that independent institutes, independent experts are investigating these things, and then the ministries only decide how serious the situation is and what consequences to suffer. Austria now has a huge opportunity, and this is worth it. In the case of propaganda and advertising with the fine food shop Austria, you were very quick when it comes to protecting the population, to informing, since you are already a little slower. [[Abg. There we were even faster!]] [[Abg. Auer: We were the first land to forbid it!]] - Yes, you say. I also believe that the argument from the outset is true that this is not a matter of agriculture alone, what you are talking about now. That's health. It can also be discussed with the Court of Auditors, which has written a lot about quality controls and lack of safety rules. [[Abg. Auer: Tell me the first country to ban it! That was Austria!]] If you do not understand that it is already being discussed that this disease can be transferred to pigs and chickens, then touch a heart and appeal to your reason at least now. Pull the consequences, accept the change to the agenda and set such a sign of calming and trusting for the population of Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2714	Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Also speaking time 5 minutes. This is the last word from my current list of speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2735	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Schwarzenberger said that this debate had the following reason: We would like to discuss this matter today and here within the framework of the budget, because it would also be possible to make proposals and because it would also be possible for the forthcoming Council on 4 May. On December 1, 2000, our Minister of Agriculture sent orders from this House, out of the People's Office, so that he can act accordingly to protect the Austrian population from this danger that threatens BSE. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is significant that two Members have so far been notified by the government groups, Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Haigermoser, because you seem to have no particular interest in this issue. You want to discuss this topic then, if there are no more ways to change something, you want to discuss it when the first cases occur. But then, Mr Schwarzenberger, you are responsible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If Mr Haigermoser, in his contribution to the debate, has done something to keep us guilty of what should happen if he says in the same breath, we cannot do anything unless it is coordinated across Europe to add that the European Union has failed, then, Mr Haigermoser, you today have the opportunity to change the agenda and decide on appropriate national measures today and here. Have the courage to do so! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It has rightly been said that it is not only a problem in agriculture, it is also a question of regulating and controlling consumer behaviour accordingly. But there is another point to be discussed on the agricultural budget on today's agenda. Faith Are you really, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition that it is the right way for us to have decided on 700 million schilling in a budget law four days ago, which will not be in favour of the fine-eating shop of Austria, which will not benefit from organic farming, but of industrial production and production in the agricultural sector? Do you believe that, Mr Schwarzenberger, this will strengthen the confidence of Austrian consumers in this production? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: These were 5b promotions!]] I'm against it. I am convinced that the Austrians want something else, namely the fine food shop, which you promote, but never implement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria we really have the happiness and the situation of having a relatively comprehensive, family-run agriculture. If we do not have the opportunity – not only when it is too late, namely after the Agriculture Council, but here and today – to discuss what measures should be taken in the agricultural sector, so that our family farmers, our farmers, can be able to stand against the pressure and not just produce food medium, but continue to produce food mediums if we do not have this possibility, then forgive, valued Ladies and gentlemen of the majority of this House, today a historic opportunity. It gives the historic opportunity to take measures to protect the Austrian population, but also to protect Austrian agriculture and agricultural production, to make decisions and to correct our members of the government: Their members of the government – in the negotiations within the European Union, to strengthen the European Council so that it can go up for the future in Austria and the Austrian population must not be afraid of eating beef from Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2806	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. The speaking time is 5 minutes. The vote will then take place. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2827	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The BSE disease is a disease, is a problem that cannot be stopped at the border or hardly. And this illustrates the urgency and need to put this question on the agenda today. We need a Europe-wide ban on animal meal, at least a moratorium at European level. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's exactly what I said! I have already made this proposal!]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we need an assignment to the Minister for Agriculture, to which he must speak and answer us today in this House. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Animal meal production is very problematic. Cadaver – we have already discussed this – is still being used in animal body exploitation. Dead animals, where medicines were used, destroyed pets et cetera are processed into animal meals in Europe. It is not enough if we always point out that the hygiene measures in Austria are sufficiently respected, we have a European problem here. In other countries, this has partly not been carried out in this strictness. And we don't have a ban on animal meal! Where does this statement by the Minister of Agriculture remain? Where is the ban on animalmeal exports, ladies and gentlemen, how clearly the German Minister for Agriculture has decreed against France? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Minister for Agriculture is a good one. He has not yet told us how many controls he has carried out. What about the animal meal of cattle feed? – I know very well that in practice there are mixing problems. Only 1,500 studies are carried out annually, 1,500 samples of feed are drawn. In view of this drama, this is too little, and it is necessary to take immediate action to ensure that these supplements are really exclusively animal-meal-free. Ladies and gentlemen! Why an agricultural debate in this House on this day? – The issue of animal husbandry is also a matter of mass animal husbandry in this European Union, and we need a mandate to the Minister of Agriculture. We finally need clear animal stock limits, clear criteria that animal welfare in Austria will be standard or remains standard. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The credibility of the Austrian cattle industry is at stake. We know that cattle are an export article, but how will the Minister of Agriculture be in the next Council of Agriculture on 4 May? Does it look like no ban on animal meal in Austria until then? That's the drama. France has already done this, Germany, and we may want to export cattle to these countries without being able to ensure in Austria that there is no BSE problem here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also see in the quality brand programmes we currently have in Austria the failure of the government groups, the last years, the failure in the area of brand policy, in the field of consumer information. You know, we have quality marks like the AMA seal that do not prohibit the feeding of meat and animal flour to non-ruminants. The feeding of animal and meat flour is thus permitted in principle. The introduction of comprehensive BSE tests is a must in order to ensure the credibility of the Austrian cattle industry, because only then, Mr Schwarzenberger, will there really be a future for the Austrian farmers if the export of cattle is secured when BSE controls are carried out throughout animals over 30 months – because only then these tests are meaningful. We must implement this immediately, and we must move it into concrete practice immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that we have no positive examples in Austria. We also have a development towards organic farming. We know that in organic farming animal meal is prohibited by directives across Europe. This is the challenge: to conduct a clear agricultural policy debate, to make the change now, and to turn agricultural policy clearly towards organic farming. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2887	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2902	Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of this drama and on the basis of the problem that these government groups are not prepared to discuss it, we will hand over to you, Mr Khol, Mr Westenthaler, products of which we do not know whether they are really BSE-free, whether they are controlled. In this tasting...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2920	The speaking time is over, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2936	Just one more sentence, Mr President Fischer: On the basis of this urgency, we will present today a urgent request for an BSE-sofort programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e2966	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Before we come to the vote, I am still announcing that Members Dr. Antoni, Gaál, Dr. Povysil and Fischl are apologised for today's sitting. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request to amend the agenda. I shall vote in favour, that is, I would ask those Members who want to take account of the objections and who are in favour of putting the budget chapter VIII, agriculture and forestry on the agenda of today's meeting instead of the agenda that has been issued to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. That is why it remains with the agenda. I still observe that the official protocols of the 44. Meeting of 22 and 23. ==References== Meeting of 23. ==References== Meeting of 24. ==References====External links== Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3020	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I may refer to those according to § 23 para. References 4 to the Rules of Procedure shall be made in writing. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3145	Before entering the agenda, MEPs Dr Petrovic and Comrades asked for urgent consideration of Mr Petrovic's self-employed motion 330/A (E) concerning BSE-society measures. It is therefore a request for urgency, which will be reached at 3 p.m. for consultation and negotiation. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (310 and 310 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2001 and Investments (370 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3166	I shall now go into the agenda. The rapporteur-general is Mr Fink. However, I do not have a wish for reporting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3190	We will lead the deliberations – following a long tradition – so that general statements, which are actually part of the general debate, can be made in connection with the Advisory Group II. It also intends to negotiate advisory groups I and II jointly. At the time of the negotiation of the Federal Estimate, the corresponding budget chapter will be discussed at the end of each meeting, which does not necessarily have to be identical with the calendar day. The planned breakdown of the debate and the vote within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure can be found in the written work plan. Are there any objections to these proposals, in particular to the division of the debate? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3231	As far as the duration of the debates is concerned, we have reached the following agreement at the President's sitting: A day block time of 10 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 195 minutes, ÖVP and FPÖ per 145 minutes, Green 115 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of a Secretary of State, which exceeds 10 minutes, is to be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. In other words, in the event of an overrun, not the other political groups will receive additional speaking time, but the corresponding speaking time will be deducted from that group, which belongs to the member of the government concerned. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will also be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mrs Vice-Chancellor in the debate held under Consultative Groups I and II is today, provided that this debate does not exceed 10 minutes. These are the proposals from the President-in-Office of the Council on which the House is to be held. I therefore ask: Are there any objections or votes against? This is not the case. Then we will proceed in this sense. Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Arts
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3328	As has already been said, we now come to the joint consultation on the advisory groups I and II of the Federal Proposal for 2001. The rapporteur, too, does not wish to speak. That is why we can go into the discussions. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. The clock is set at 15 minutes. The time limit for speaking is 20 minutes from the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3358	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government, the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What do we expect from today's budget debate? – It must be assumed that the representatives of the government parties – first of all Mr Stumbling – will come out again and say in a well-known volume: It has been left behind such a pile and such a mountain of debt that all the dramatic measures provided for in this budget are justified. [[Demonstratetive applause with the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Finally, tell the truth!]] [[Lively calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the announcement we have to expect from the government parties, and therefore... [[Up-to-date calls for tenders]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was the wrong introduction, Mr. Cot!]] You obviously confirm my prophetic prognosis by your applause, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have the wrong text!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Finally the truth!]] It is likely that Mr Klubobmann Khol will come to the speaker's desk with similar hymns about the Minister of Finance, as he has done over the past five years – only with the difference that the Minister of Finance was another and the economic policy course was a completely different one, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Federal Chancellor, said at the beginning of your reign that you do not want to be measured by words but by deeds. And if we have comprehensive economic access, it is fair, I believe, to carry out an evaluation of this budget according to its impact on deficit development, on growth, on inflation, on employment and on innovation, which is ultimately crucial for the development of the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't have this access!]] First point: Developments in growth. The first drafts of your budget have led to a massive downward revision of the forecasts of the economic research institutes for the next year, and it is not to be excluded that they will be re-evaluated at the end of the year and that Austria will have a growth rate below the European average for the first time in several years. – This is not a top performance, Mr Bundeskanzler, but the risk of decoupling from the European economic cycle. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second area: Employment. According to the recent studies, it is quite clear that every year about 2.5 percent of economic growth is needed to achieve a reduction in employment – a reduction in unemployment – in order to achieve a reduction in the employment situation. Meanwhile, the growth forecast was reduced to 2.8 percent. It is quite possible that growth expectations will be reduced to 2.5 percent at the end of the year and that we have reached the bottom of a development in times of European high-economy, where economic growth still means additional employment and the reduction of unemployment. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this budget also poses risks to future employment development, dangers which do not necessarily occur next year, but we have already reached the bottom of the employment impact of growth. And this is a worrying way, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as inflation is concerned, last year Austria had 0.8 percent inflation, now, in November of this year, we have 2.8 percent inflation. They would be right to object that this is primarily caused by international development. I add: Through homemade tax and tax increases in Austria, the inflation rate has been above the European average for the first time in six years and not below the European average. That is to say, at the inflation rate, you have indeed managed to become European leaders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One question, of course, arises in this context: What will the impact on the future economy be like if Austria already has an inflation rate of 2.8 percent at the beginning of a European economy? If we can only take economic activity with us, of course, inflationary effects are also expected, and we will see how the European Central Bank reacts to such a development. – That is why, Federal Chancellor: It is not a short-term objective, it is a long-term stabilisation of economic growth, because only that ensures employment and prosperity in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the question of the innovative power of this budget. You have announced great innovations. I was very surprised when I had to read last Saturday that one of your main answers is that, after you have now made changes to the pension system, you are already thinking about the change in the statutory retirement age, namely, in the background of the economy, with the argument that we could have the labour force in Austria. Federal Chancellor! I don't know if you've ever, once, had the effort to read the job vacancies of the Austrian newspapers on a Saturday. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are you looking for a post?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Gusenbauer, are you looking for a job?]] You will find the following: Secretaries under 30 years of age, IT employees under 30 years of age, skilled workers under 40 years of age, Monteur not older than 35 years of age. You will hardly find a single ad in which a company is looking for people in Austria who are over 65 years old. All businesses want young and well-trained employees, and in this area we have a shortage. With your increase in the retirement age will be Don't get rid of this problem, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is a question of whether your proposal is really just a lack of labour, because we still have an unemployment rate in Austria, which is internationally low, but every year it is about 500 000 people who change their jobs and are unemployed in the short term. It would be no problem at all to train 20 000 additional workers in the field of e-commerce and the Internet with measures of labour market management, training and qualification in Austria. We could get rid of this lack! Only the political will and the money you do not want to make available for these qualifications, Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question is therefore already raised: Are you concerned about quality, whether Austria is a future-proof job, or is it at the heart of reducing key elements of the social and welfare state? Although Mrs Sickl had to resign because she proposed a legal retirement age of 67 years, just a few months after that, you finally make the same proposal with another reason. I therefore have the impression that you are not concerned about the labour market, but it is really about cuts for pensioners in our country. That is clearly your goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] End This year's economic policy area has been very affected, which was the question of privatisation. They have put them on the agenda, saying that privatisation is a very, very essential approach to modernising the economic location. They are right to say that in the 1990s in Austria, privatisations and partial privatisations were carried out in an excellent way by state enterprises, which have led to the fact that they are now extremely profitable, well-functioning and modern enterprises. This was the success story of the Austrian privatizations that were carried out at the time under Rudolf Edlinger and Viktor Klima. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what have you done in this sector this year? – There has been the auction of UMTS licenses. Since you are always talking about the previous government, I would point out that Minister One had planned to do this auction in March of this year, based on the consideration that if one carried out this auction earlier, one could first achieve a higher yield and, secondly, the possibility of technology leadership, which would have been a good opportunity in a country like Austria with a 70 percent mobile penetration. Your Minister of Transport has postponed the whole problem to autumn and at this time has succeeded in auctioning 11.4 billion schilling – I repeat: 11.4 billion schilling – but in reality you yourself expected that 20 or 30 billion schilling would have been successful. That is to say, you came too late, and, secondly, you have taken significantly less than other comparable European countries. – This was the first real failure of an economic policy that this federal government has made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And when that didn't work with the auction and the expected revenue, the replacement argument came. It has been said that unless the yield of UMTS auctions is favourable, it will bring only so little, because this creates a favourable condition for Telekom privatisation. With these low costs, the Telekom share will be able to be placed cheaply on the markets, and the lower yield from the UMTS mobile license will be reflected in a higher yield at Telekom. I would point out that the Minister of Finance, who meant at the beginning of this year, was primarily concerned with the sale of Deutsche Telekom's shares to maximize the yield. A few weeks ago, he said 20 euros would be a fair price. Then – completely dilettanetic – a much too broad price band between 12 and 20 euros was set. Such a thing is completely unusual internationally! Then one had to go under this price band, that is to say, nine to 12 euros. And finally, by privatising a quarter of Deutsche Telekom shares, you have not even received half of the revenue that the former government achieved in the sale of the same stock package. This is the greatest concealment of popular wealth that has ever taken place in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And now comes the new argument of the Minister of Finance: He believes that this was not done because of the profit, but in order to save the Vienna Stock Exchange and stimulate the stock market in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! 90,000 people have bought these shares, and 30,000 of them have purchased shares for the first time. What, do you think, do these people think about the Vienna stock market and about the Vienna stock market when they buy a stock of nine euros, which is already falling below eight euros within a few days? – This was not a good investment in the Stock Exchange Square in Vienna. This will prevent many Austrians from buying such shares in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Their two major economic policy projects this year have thus been a blow to water in terms of privatisation. And if you boast of your economic competence, you should read the relevant comments from the Austrian newspapers, which have now also recognized that there is no reform, but only water cooked, and that there is a blind privatisation that does not lead to the desired results. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: After zdorovje!]] But you left out a number of points in your budget. They have, for example, left out any kind of social balance. And the most ridiculous are those ads that you now place in the Austrian newspapers against two-digit million amounts and in which you claim that the burden on Austrians will be up to a gross income of 30 000 S by your rehabilitation package zero Schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you know this from Mr. Häupl?]] I call all Austrians, from 1st century onwards. January of next year to take a look at the wallet and determine whether they will not be taken away from the Minister of Finance for the whole year, although the distribution of the total budget burden will be on average 14 400 S per Austrian taxpayer. Ladies and gentlemen! This is misguided at taxpayers' costs! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have already discussed the lack of social balance between your actions. But one example is questionable: For those 500 billion schillings that are stored in Austrian foundations – and for the annual increase in wealth that may amount to 40 to 50 billion schilling – you will introduce a tax that may bring in a billion schillings, perhaps even 500 million. That is, you only take a minimum fraction as a contribution there. On the other hand, the total amount of Austrian accident pensions is 6 billion schilling. This area takes away 2 billion schilling, that's a third! They are gracious to the Foundation's owners, but they are merciless of the accident pensioners! That marks your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This budget therefore has nothing to do with ensuring the future, it has nothing to do with social balance, and it does not show any economic competence. It is an imaginative redistribution programme, an imaginative programme at the expense of the future of our country and, ultimately, a programme that presents the danger that Austria will decouple from the European growth trend and will really be "unique" on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3646	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. I'll give him the word. The clock is set at 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3668	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr Gusenbauer, it has already been an interesting revelation and will stop saying to the House today that you are already reading the jobs in the daily newspapers instead of the internal policy pages. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If that has a deeper reason, then the colleagues of the media will surely question it with you. Perhaps you are looking – but this is your case, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But he was already too old for all places!]] But at the beginning of this general debate, Mr Gusenbauer, there must be a very serious matter, and I cannot spare you today. In recent hours they have agreed on their democratic legitimacy via television and also via radio from the democratic government of Austria. They have said that this government has not been elected but has appointed itself. You have spoken of the fact that this government is therefore not legitimate because it did not have a government-building mandate from the President of the Federal Republic, although you know that the President of the Federal Government has praised this government. Mr Gusenbauer! You continue with this rhetoric where you started your Europe round trip before the summer in Champagne-Laune, with the constant suspension of the results of the 3rd election. On October 1999, and with the constant negation of this government's democratic state of affairs, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And that is what we reject! You have also chosen the timing very carefully this time again. It is once again – just as before the summer, in the spring of this year – a time when Austria is in the international spotlight, as a large conference, the OSCE conference, is taking place here in the country. And I wonder very slowly, Mr Gusenbauer: Do you know what you're doing? – If you knew that, you would not only leave this hall in a hurry, but you would also know that with such statements that you made in the "press hour" and also after that, Austria has done great damage, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] ==References== In October 1999, free democratic elections were held with a clear result. If you do not take note of this, Mr Gusenbauer, you have not understood democracy. There have been two elected parties that have formed a government. If you do not take note of this, Mr Gusenbauer, you have not understood democracy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] The Austrian government is based on a majority here in the House. If you do not take note of this, Mr Gusenbauer, you have not understood democracy. This government and its ministers are all lupen-clean democrats, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – If you do not want to take note of this, you have not understood democracy. And in the end – I repeat this once again – the Federal President of the Republic of Austria also praised this Federal Government. – If you do not take note of this, you have not understood democracy, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you question all this verbally, if democracy in Austria really does not understand and start to light up verbally, then the democrats will not only be here in the house, but all democrats throughout the country will point you to the electors of the next elections, Mr Gusenbauer! You'll feel that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They have only recently failed and been properly demasked here in the House, when on Friday you wanted to pre-judicate a direct democratic decision by means of a request which was then entirely different from what you might have wished. With their verbal derailments and all these actions, they undermine the democracy of the country, the right to vote, the participation of the population and ultimately our parliamentaryism. That is why it is not clear to you that you will all face the most bitter resistance if you continue to consider our beautiful country, to put our solid democracy on a level with clean formations of banana republics! We reject this, and you should finally get used to it, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Letter Mr Gusenbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Letter You'll find it in the main book – even if you're chatting and not listening in the first row. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer turns his back on the speaker and talks to a club employee]] – Someone who questions our democratic structure in such a way should ask himself seriously whether he is still in the right place here in this House! Ask yourself this question! Answer this question yourself! I think it would be time for you to take your consequences, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But now away from this unsavory concept of democracy to the gratifying, namely to the 2001 budget. We recall the budget debate on the 2000 budget, when all the opposition parties, many critics and many commentators meant: Well, the last budget, that was the warming phase, that was the emergency program, that was the apprenticeship of the Minister of Finance, but the 2001 budget will have it in itself. That will be the master's exam for the Minister of Finance! Van der Bellen said: The real test comes with the 2001 budget. The nail sample, for example, wrote the "Small Newspaper", will be the budget 2001. A warm-up phase was mentioned. The 2000 emergency programme is still a long way from the problems of the 2001 budget. The opposition, Gusenbauer, Edlinger, said: 2000, okay, that's very fast, but in 2001 the big end comes for this government. The thick end comes with the 2001 budget. Today, we do not have the thick end, but rather a slim government with a good budget, which we can easily represent, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to pay tribute to Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and the government for this budget. Mr. Finanzminister! If it is indeed true that this budget was the master's exam, then it has not only passed, but it is a wonderful beginning of a new Austrian success story with a new government that we like to participate in and join with, dear Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the golden path – a consolidation at the right time, with a lot of fingertips for high social justice while safeguarding the economic location and also a noticeable improvement in the labour market, ladies and gentlemen! The cornerstones of this success story can already be established. We have excellent economic data, we have excellent labour market data. 3.5 percent growth, 3.5 percent unemployment rate. Every unemployed person is, of course, too much, but we are third in Europe with this value. We have almost no youth unemployment, but the best export rate and the best investment rates. The European Union diagnoses – and this is very interesting, since Mr Gusenbauer and the SPÖ are now always strappling the example of Germany and thinking that the Germans are doing better and we should focus on their example – a stronger growth for Austria than for Germany. This should make us proud because all these positive developments are happening at a time of strict budget consolidation, which is necessary due to the heritage of socialist financial policy. That is why it is a decisive change - not just a decisive change, but a great success - that we can say: After three decades of socialist financial policy, we will no longer make any further debts from 2001. That is the great thing about this budget work, with which everyone should go along and support it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I therefore do not understand the defensive, even counterproductive, destructive attitude of the SPÖ in the opposition. Even in August, after the second reform dialogue, Gusenbauer meant that we could take part in the objective of not making debts from 2001 onwards, but the ways must be discussed. – Today everything is different. Today it says: Pause! The SPÖ wants in the hammock. She wants to take a break. She doesn't want to clean up the budget. One should look at the growth of the debt mountain, while the Austrians pay the interest for it. We must therefore clearly say that this social democratic path is wrong and must be a warning to the Austrians, for they already know from the past what that means. In 1992, there were still 988 billion Schilling government debt, in 2000, eight years later, already 2,000 billion schilling. In 1996/1997 there were two tax packages with a tax increase of 100 billion schilling, but debt and deficit have increased further. We still had a record tax rate of 44.7% under a Socialist Finance Minister in 1999, which has so far remained unsurpassed. In 1999, we still had 54.1 percent of government expenditure compared to gross domestic product, while we will drive at 49.5% in 2002, i.e. 5 percent less. This is a clear reduction in the expenditure ratio, which means nothing but that we primarily save expenditure on the one hand, in the administration, in the bureaucracy, in the ministries and in the politics, where people demand it, ladies and gentlemen, and wherever it is right. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have not only secured pensions – even if SPÖ politicians continue to paint horror scenarios – we have also introduced a new management reform. And above all, we have agreed – and this is particularly important to me – social justice on all the budgetary measures that will, in fact, be the heart of the renovation. If we compare the 1999 budget with that of 2001, there will be a discharge of 5.5 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, for the lower incomes. This is our social responsibility, which also distinguishes us from previous budgets, because people with less than 30 000 s more money remain in their pockets, Mr Gusenbauer, no less! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You voted against it! Against the savings reform and the family package! He doesn't understand!]] If you ask the Austrians from this point of view to re-count in their wallet, I can calm you down: We've already done this. We have already mentioned, for example, in a household, a single parent with a child under the age of 10 years: Gross income 19 000 S, discharge in the 2001 budget compared to the 1999 budget: 4 660 S. Or: [[Abg. Huber: That's not true!]] Single parent with two children under 10 years: 20 000 S gross, discharge in the 2001 budget compared to the 1999 budget: 7 593 pp. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You always say the untruth! You voted against! Stand by!]] So I could give you a lot of examples. Two earners in a family with two children under 10 years of age: monthly gross income 28 000 S or 18 000 S, discharge in the 2001 budget compared to the 1999 budget: 10 823 S, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: He doesn't want to understand! Conscious misleading of the population!]] This is the government's social conscience: more purchasing power, more child money, less wage tax and no tax increases in the mass tax sector, no increases in tariffs, improvements for workers in the disease and service prevention case, 1 billion more schilling for disabled people, but 100 million schilling less for politicians. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You voted against it! Stand by!]] This is our social responsibility that we can carry out a review at any time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This government is doing everything it can to continue to improve the labour market situation in this country. We have had the lowest unemployment rate for a long time, but we are not satisfied with it. We want to get even better, not only do we want to secure the achieved, but we want to ensure that unemployment continues to fall in the future. That is why I am very grateful to the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government for increasing the funds for active labour market policies from 8.8 billion to 10.1 billion schilling. This is important: Active labour market policy is also active poverty reduction, which is urgently needed because You have left us 1 million people, 1 million Austrians living on the poverty line, from the SPÖ through your inheritance. That is why we will act and also implement active labour market policies to combat poverty, ladies and gentlemen, which is urgently needed and necessary. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No budget debate without any questions of style as to how it is being conducted. The government has carried out two reform dialogues in a very large form. The opposition did not take part in the first, then the second. There have been social partners' negotiations in detail, there has been a long-term discussion of this budget in Parliament. That is all right, and that is also the proper way of dealing with each other. This government is looking for dialogue, because only together can we master these problems. In contrast, the opposition: Refusal of discussion, mobilization of the road, destruction, fundamental opposition. I do not understand that, despite great criticism in the population, even across all commentators and across the political observers, you continue to stick to it and, so to speak, mobilize the street extra-parliamentaryly; on 5 May, you will be able to do so. On December 11, the executive has already been informed that there may be chaotic conditions. Mr President of the ÖBG, Mr Vergebnitsch! You should really try to put the arguments here in the house, bring the arguments here to discuss with us here – and not continue to mobilize the road, because this also hurts Austria and that is not a good picture that is being delivered here, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The highlight of this destruction was, of course, the "press hour" of Mr Gusenbauer, in which he agreed with the government on the legitimacy of democracy policy. The permanent rejection of election results, Mr Gusenbauer, is simply not in place. If you consider exactly what you have said, namely that the government would have said something else before the election and therefore would not have been legitimately legitimated, then there must be a serious question of whether you yourself are democratically legitimate. Neither were you top candidates of your party, but today are their boss, the opposition chief here in the high house. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a matter of the party!]] You therefore have no legitimacy, Mr Gusenbauer, if you take your opinion seriously. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But these are the angular trains, the no longer comprehensible angular movements of the socialist opposition, which still do not know that it is opposition. They demand a referendum on the hundreds of pages of budget accompanying laws, which in the end you cannot implement into reality. They speak of the nomination – and that for half a year – of a shadow cabinet, but in the "press hour" they fail to call names. Is there no wonder, for who already gives his name as a shadow? - That's not a question. That is why you will not be able to set up a shadow cabinet, but even if it succeeds, it can only be a shadow of this good government and it will remain, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They keep changing the direction. In August, you will be the budget target, not to make any more debts. At the end of November, at the beginning of December, everything is different: You don't have any ideas, but you say you want to take a break. They speak of coalition changes being offered to you, but they also fail to name names. On the one hand, you still have a party pleite of 350 million schilling in your own cash, but on the other hand you are talking about a rental policy where you want to represent the tenants. They warn of too high rents and even have a party headquarters in Löwelstraße, for which you don't pay 200 or 250 S rent per square meter, which would be normal, but only 56 S rent per square meter. And that's a scandal we're going to show over and over again! As long as you do not put your rents on the stand, which corresponds to what all other Austrians pay in this situation, you have no credibility in the rental policy and have to fail. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, you have caused a very personal debacle, namely the bank Burgenland, which will cost every Burgenländer in the liability case 16 000 S. This is your financial and banking policy, with which you ultimately consume half a national budget to rework up your scandal. Ladies and gentlemen! All these serious strategic mistakes of a party that have still not taken their leave of power make it easy for us to do so. That is why we should be relatively loose here, because in fact you can only wish for one thing: Make Keep it up! Just go on with your policy! They are rebutted daily, including by experts, by many experts. I would just like to quote one of them, the head of the International Monetary Fund: Praise for Austria's budget. Austria is on a good economic course. Reform efforts will help to strengthen competitiveness, growth and employment policies. – An unwarranted man, the head of the IMF, Köhler, said that. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! For years and decades, the motto of your socialist budget policy was nothing but to spread disappointments evenly. We ensure that the Austrians see their hope in this government fulfilled when it comes to budget creation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3925	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. The clock is set at 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e3946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Westenthaler! With the zero deficit as such, I have no major problems. We've never made a fortune that we don't think the path you've taken with the budget-accompanied laws is right. We consider the policy implications of the budget accompanying laws and therefore the budget unacceptable. In particular, this culminates in measures in the area of unemployment insurance. We also believe that, contrary to your official statements, you are not presenting a poverty reduction programme, but – quite the contrary! – to increase the risk of poverty significantly in the case of long-term unemployed, single-parent and child-rich families in which someone becomes unemployed. That's what we've been discussing. In the meantime, I wonder why the FPÖ has so deviated from its path of virtue, namely, as it itself calls itself to be the "party of the little man" in the budgets for the years 2000 and 2001. Only in the last few weeks did I realize that it could be related to the fact that the FPÖ has a peculiar financing structure, that is, contrary to the other parties very rich donors – Mr Trattner unfortunately does not listen to me, but that does nothing, I will send you the protocol – and that could have a little bit to do with the policy of FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Sorry! I'd love to listen to you!]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We had – I will not repeat this – already well documented – essential objections to the distribution policy implications. I believe that this budget, first of all, is very much at the expense of the lower levels of income and, secondly, does not contain any visions. Saving is good and beautiful, budget consolidation is good, the deficit is good, but you have to offer something positive at the same time, make a future investment credible – we find – especially in the field of education, research and development, science. There you have to set a focus, which is also found in the budget. - That's not the case. This is not the case, apart from the fact that nothing is expected to go further in the ecological field. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Mr Van der Bellen! 10 billion for technology and research!]] The climate measures were de facto delegated to the countries in connection with the reform of the housing funds; otherwise, we see nothing except that the cross-subsidisation of the truck transport continues to be maintained. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. One.]] This budget-accompaniment law is a game of mourning. It's all documented. We have written a different opinion. I will not repeat it now, but try to say something on the real subject. Achieving zero deficit by 2002: I mean, of course, in a good economic situation, the budget deficit must be reduced. If not now, when then? – I personally – and not all my party colleagues are in conformity with it – do not have this huge problem with the zero deficit until 2002. I'm telling you that quite openly. Of course, there is no real reason for economics either for the end date or for the other end date. The economic justification of Mr Gusenbauer's 2004 report is probably better than that of 2002, due to lower growth losses and so on. Politically speaking, however, it is already difficult to put the end to budgetary consolidation into the next legislative period. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: After the election!]] Politically speaking, this government, which is not known to mean – how to say? – Sympathy delights in making it unbelievable when it puts the end point of budget consolidation at a time when no one knows whether it will be in power or not. That's what the gods know. That would make the whole process, the credibility of this process questionable. Apart from that, I have just recently brought the previous budget data to my mind. 1995 to 1997 in the old, red and black Federal Government it looked like this: From 1995 to 1997, the Maastricht deficit of the Federal Government was reduced by 2 percentage points from 4.6 to 2.6 percent of GDP. From 1995 to 1997, the Maastricht deficit was reduced from 5.1% to 1.7%, i.e. 3.4 percentage points, by the state including countries and municipalities. 3,4! Now, from 2000 to 2002, we are talking about a maximum reduction – maximum! – 1.5 percentage points, because the deficit of 2000, I believe, will be much lower than originally forecast. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Violent!]] 1.5 percentage points in two years, compared with 3.4 from 1995 to 1997, will probably still be feasible if one wants to do so seriously! - No, not at all. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Is that too slow for you? Do I understand you right?]] I'm just saying – my God! – From 1995 to 1997 we had a huge budget consolidation. [[Abg. Böhacker:...! That's incredible!]] You have to say: In 1995 there was the self-indebted debacle of the then red-black government, then you just corrected it in 1996 to 1997. The quantitative scale was far greater than what you are planning now. So if that's not a feasible task? - Of course it's feasible. That can't be a serious problem. The EU Commission has now expressed itself and says: Well, only 0.5 percent in 2002. - But she can't react differently. It does not know the 2002 budget estimate, so of course it is cautious. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't know the estimates either!]] The economic situation is not yet known. There is a wealth of one-off measures in this budget, possibly also in the next, of course they go up by half a percentage point or by a few tenths. I can understand that very well. On the whole, with a remarkable exception, I think that the budget approaches for 2001, i.e. what is now available, are not so unrealistic – even those in revenue, i.e. in taxes – with one exception: with the foundations. At the foundations we are led around in the dark at the nose. This approximately 2 billion schillings, which are planned there, no one believes you for the time being. [[Congratulations to the Greens and to Mr Dr. Gusenbauer and Mr Mag. Prammer.]] We'll all know better at the end of next year, but for the time being, nobody believes you. I cannot take advantage of the opportunity to say two or three evils about the old federal government. The fact that we now have to consolidate the budget is probably also because the old red and black government has not consolidated the budget. If we look at the data of the European Commission, which corresponds to what the Minister of Finance has presented to us in the labour force, then the overall Maastricht deficit has fallen to 1.7 percent of GDP by 1997 and then increased to 2.3 or 2.1% in 1998/99. If you, from the red and black federal government, had complied with the path of consolidation at the time – although not to the extent of 1995 to 1997, but quite plainly – then we do not have to worry at all about the last place under the EU-15, about compliance with the Stability Pact and so on. These are the mistakes of the red and black federal government that you now have to correct in the black and blue Federal Government. The same applies in principle to the Telekom debacle. I cannot fully understand the crocodile tears about the low yield of this privatisation. I can only remember too well how in the past we discussed here in this House back and forth the yield situation of the old post including Telekom, the various distractions to the covenant that the post had to bear under one or the other title. That was de facto indirect taxes on calling. And these distractions to the federal government were so high that finally a post including Telekom with 110 billion schilling debts was left. This was the "great" success of the economic policy of the then red and black German government. At that time, Mr Gusenbauer, who was primarily responsible? Who? – These were the transport ministers, as they all just called in the various amendments to the Federal Ministry Act. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Lord One is sitting back there!]] Climate was the longest time in the post office. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One too!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Strings! Climate!]] Strings too, yes, this area has always been in the social democratic hand, according to my memory. The causes of the present debacle lie in the events of that time. In the meantime, I find that the Italians, with their 27 billion schilling, have obviously overpaid for a quarter of Deutsche Telekom. They were not alone with their overestimation, I recently read in the newspaper that Telekom is estimated to be between 100 and 200 billion schilling. According to the current stock exchange assessment, it is said and written – four times 16 is worth 64 – 64 billion schilling, half or a third of what was recently believed. The Italians believed that at the time. All right! But this is a company that has not been managed as a company for years and decades – let us be honest! – but as an office. I still waged a bureaucratic war this year because of a 60-S difference on my phone bill with Telekom. It doesn't come to me on the 60s, but that was obviously incorrect, and that annoyed me. Writing took two months. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] And it's still not really..., but okay. Maybe that's a company now, but the story still depends on us at that time. The debacle now is not only the fault of the current Federal Government, even if one could of course say that the Minister of Finance and Mr Öiag's Boards and Supervisory Boards and so on and so on must know that this must go wrong in the current situation. It would probably have been different half a year ago. But now? – I couldn’t go back to these old stories. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So far, so good!]] In general, Mr Khol, Mr Westenthaler, and in particular Mr Grasser, it would be much easier to discuss the budget objectively if we could at least agree on the figures and facts. And obviously we can't. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why?]] If at least we could dispute the facts and figures, we would argue about their assessment of what would be much more meaningful, including the correctness of the zero deficit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The zero deficit!]] Gifted! A brilliant marketing check, that's no question at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Reality!]] I have already said in the debate on the budget speech: It is amazing what is presented to us here in injustices, falsehoods, and simple nonsense. Again: On page 13 of the Manus of the Budget speech reads: Private households contribute about 3.5 billion schilling. – And you yourself count the need for consolidation with 80, 90, 100 billion schilling. What is the counterpart to private households? Besides private households, is there anyone else who has to pay taxes? Maybe the public budgets? - That's an obvious nonsense, sorry! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] "Employees" – it was claimed – "are making a contribution of 10.5 billion schilling." - Clear nonsense. According to your advertisements in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) – you are doing all-sided, what is the whole-page?, double-sided ads – the employees are now doing – that's from the 25th century. November, from Saturday – a contribution of 13.2 billion schilling, thus about 30 percent more. [[The speaker holds a double side of the "Kronen-Zeitung" up]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: At the expense of taxpayers!]] Trends are rising strongly, I would say. And what are you doing? – Both numbers are wrong, it is still not true! You have claimed – "in income tax" the Minister of Finance has said, "in total" the Vice-Chancellor said – at least you have all claimed that income below 30 000 S gross is not taxed. That is obviously wrong! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Percentage not taxed!]] See workers' retirement rate, final settlement claims and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is nothing change in the amount of workers' redundancies!]] Both income tax and unemployment benefit: all under 30 000 S are included. In the "Kronen-Zeitung" on Saturday, you were a bit more honest now, I have to say. That is to say: However, income below 30 000 S gross is not to be taxed. – Yes, they may not be taxed, but they will be burdened with this 2001 budget estimate. You insist that both in the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung) and elsewhere, where this is done on two thirds of the expenditure side and on one third on the revenue side. – In reality, it is exactly the other way round. If you don't believe me, you don't believe the workers' chamber opinions and, of course, you don't believe Mr. Gusenbauer, Perhaps you believe the EU Commission every now and then. Isn't it? Not always. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not always! Not everything!]] You'll find out what you believe or don't. The EU Commission writes: More than two thirds are also revenue page measurements. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Translate!]] – More than two thirds are revenue-based measures. That is indisputable, too. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Translate for the cap, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: For the Westenthaler in Czech!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was English!]] But what really – how do you say? – The last statement by Mr. Grasser, Minister of Finance, on 27 February, was put to the test by the barrel. November. – Mr Finanzminister! You can say that's all typing errors and print errors. I have to assume, however, that this is true, what the press writes. That's what it says: Expenditure on research and development is rising from 49 to 60 billion Schilling, for science from 103 to 109 billion Schilling. – Kurt Grünewald, watch out for 109 billion schilling, which is well 3.5 percent of GDP! There we are, as far as the research and development rate is concerned, already in the Finnish ranks. I don't understand why we are actually always excited that we are doing so little for research and development. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser:... incl. colleague Gehrer!]] – Including Mrs Gehrer. It says "for science from 103 to 109 billion schilling". [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Education and Science!]] Even then it is not true, ladies and gentlemen, because then it would even be more. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a resort!]] - That's not true. For science you can see your own information in the spreadsheet: Total expenditure of the Federal Government, functional breakdown, research and science 2001: 38 billion schilling. – Previously it was less. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Education and Science!]] - Okay, I quote from a newspaper, you quote something else. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: That's why I say it!]] By the way, it would also be wrong with education. Still, it's not going to go out. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It's not all that's in the paper!]] – Okay, the journalists are once again guilty, they didn’t understand anything – not even the poor colleague of the "Press". I really can't blame him for this divergent information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe it was a print mistake!]] Summary: We are particularly lacking the vision of this budget, which we could call a future investment, especially in the field of education and science, Mr Khol. Last week my colleague Brosz told you what the freezing of staff costs for two years means that you are missing 4,000 - that is, 8 000 - for teachers every year, we are missing. What do you mean? – The teachers will be missing, the parents will be missing and the children in particular will be missing. That's what you call "future investment." [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One more thing, because Mr Trattner looks at me in such a way as to lose my mind. I was in Burgenland some times now. You know why, there's election campaign. I would really recommend that you sit together with company representatives in Burgenland and ask them where they see problems. We of the Greens have often done so. Not one of these company representatives considered that EU enlargement, the so-called Easter enlargement, would cause them problems. On the contrary! They think it is an urgent need. But I've heard of people several times: If that goes on, then not the people there – namely the people in the candidate countries – will have problems, but we here! They're getting better prepared. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Which companies were you there for?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who were you with?]] In Hungary, it is obvious that people are Hungarian – no! –, English and German can. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Already in Burgenland?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not above the border?]] How many people can visit Hungarian or Slovenian or Czech? What have we done in the past to promote trilingualism in Austria? And what are we doing now? The multilingual radio in Burgenland has been "turned off". The few thousand schillings that were necessary for this in the year were too much for you. But it is not – as you might believe – only about radio stories, but about language skills, about comparative advantages and disadvantages! If we continue to do so in this country, we will have problems with EU enlargement, not our neighbouring countries! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The East will not take us!]] We're not prepared enough for it. But they still stir up this mood, these fears, instead of actively putting in place those measures that are necessary in this context. And unfortunately, this will not fall to your head, but all of Austria, if you continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4530	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e4551	Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1995, the Austrian People's Party has been pushing for a turn in the politics of this country. And turn around means: new governance, modern governance, ending debt policy, making the social state a success. Since 1994 we have tried to do this with the Social Democrats. We have also achieved some successes in this way. I am Lord Van der Bellen grateful that he put the acid exactly where I put it: Between 1995 and 1997 we were well on our way and achieved some initial success. In 1997, I gave the speech you, Mr Gusenbauer, quoted yesterday in the ORF – and I am at that time speaking. In 1995, Schüssel, then vice chancellor, created new elections to bring about this turn and put an end to debt policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Although there has been initial success, after the union, after the Socialist trade unionists' group had shot the bug after the efforts of a pension reform of social democracy, it was not a reform, but a "revelation". The reform force of social democracy was consumed. In the course of the government negotiations 2000, it became clear that: There is no new state to do with social democracy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since 4. February this year we have a new government: the government of Schüssel – Riess-Passer, the government of the People's Party with the Freedom Party! This government has succeeded in turning under even more difficult conditions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have implemented a cabinet and government reform: the smallest government with most women in important positions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have forced a "social partnership new", namely through decommissioning. Only one social partner is sitting here in this House, but has no time to participate in debates. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He prefers to demonstrate on the street!]] It shows: The two social partners today cannot be in Parliament because they are probably mobilising the road against us. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The government has taken the social partners very seriously in those areas where they have agreed on a common solution, such as in public service, for example in seasonal employment, the famous termination period, and have concluded with them. And the fact that the budget accompanying laws were voted on without problems last week was precisely an expression of this new social partnership that we are standing on! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have enforced zero-Neuve debt as a goal, with three budgets, the budget accompanying law for two years and the financial compensation. We have implemented a pension reform that strengthens our youth in the fact that they too will have a good pension, a good pension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have enforced privatisation, we have enforced the objectiveion and the end of the proportion in the ÖIAG, we have been able to implement a system of social security in some areas of social policy – not yet in all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] We have enforced equality between workers and employees – a project in which social democracy was only verbally interested, because it did not support this solution; we have enforced it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have, new in this House, for those who have the real labour market problems – 37 percent of the disabled have no work! – a billion disabled people. With this billion we will be able to create thousands of them work and work. That's what we're standing for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have also solved the lengthy problem of compensation for forced labour during the National Socialist Criminal State in Austria. And: We have given constitutional rights to the ethnic groups and minorities! In one word: This government has taken the turn! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a second point: This turn is made on a permanent basis! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – With the speech you gave today, Mr Gusenbauer, you would fall through with Professor Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Trade Union Party! We will not allow this new social partnership, the "reform dialogue new"... – Mr. Van der Bellen is actually going to correct. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen goes to the Bureau.]] So I take note: You would not let Mr Gusenbauer begin to examine! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen talks to Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[New cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the social-democratic trade unionists who are still present in the House to direct Mr Vergestnich and Mr President Nuremberger that we do not let the social-ethnic society get out of the streets. [[Abg. Edler: We will tell the new builder!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] ==References====External links== It is not acceptable for the representatives of the trade union to be members of the National Council. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser:... do you eliminate democracy, or what?]] This, as one of my group's trade unionists said, is an abuse of the trade union for fundamental opposition, for political purposes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to be able to say that the Christian Trade Unionists of Lower Austria and those of Vienna will not participate in this demonstration, because the ÖGB will find itself poor in arms with the Thursday chaots in front of Parliament. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is a cowardice!]] I wish you all the best. It's not my ÖGB! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My ÖGB is the one who has co-founded the Republic, my ÖGB is the one who states in § 1 of his Statute that he is one of the foundations of a democratic and free and just Austria! Arm in arm with the chaots – that's what we'll look at! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to say something to you: We will not allow the recovery of state finances to be postponed and delayed! – I have 5 minutes before 6 o’clock today in the Early this deplorable mission by the Social Democratic Party with the motto "Let's make it for the Germans!" belongs to: Let's do this three years later and by 20 percent less! [[Abg. Edlinger: Bullshit!]] We take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the Social Democracy: You want a red-green health of the state! But Mr Van der Bellen, after today's speech, is not a partner, I have to tell you. That's where you have to get the German Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: However, he will actually correct: He will not let Gusenbauer pass through!]] Mr Gusenbauer! I would like to write you something else in the main book: The SPÖ has tried and continues to try to prevent the democratic turnaround in this country by all means. They are trying to eliminate the democratic elections in that country. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is a cowardice, this statement! ...It's a cleaner!]] They tried three attempts, but failed with all three. The first attempt you have tried to remove the sovereignty of the voters in this country was your sanctions policy, which was adopted by the Bureau of the Socialist International around the 23. Years around was born, as we now know that you have supported, by also drinking champagne with the people who have offended us. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Chirac!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They wanted to represent our government as not legitimate! They wanted to isolate them! – But we have passed this time in dignity and propriety and have emerged from this conflict as moral winners. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP and with representatives of the liberals.]] That was the first start – he failed! The second attempt was: "Resistance, resistance! Bowl – Haider on the wall!" – Do you remember? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Incredible!]] That's where you went! In these demonstrations, you have claimed that the new government's ghost will be gone in three weeks! [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The ghost of the demonstrations was gone in three weeks! Our government stands, and it is stronger than ever before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! Your third attempt must also fail. You said in the press hour: The government is not legitimate because it is not elected because it has no mandate of the people and because it has committed itself. [[Call the SPÖ: That's right! That's right!]] – They put us in fact that we had usurped the power in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] Where are we? The power in this country comes from the constituencies and nowhere else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You said you were going into opposition...!]] Mr Gusenbauer! As a lawyer, you would have to know that no federal government in this country is directly elected and no government in that country has a direct mandate from the people. It has been set up by the President of the Federal Republic and has not been distrusted by the National Council. Such a government is legitimate, it has the confidence of the people, it is on the ground of our federal constitution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer! Do you require a referendum to confirm the course of a government? We note that you and your vice-president, who also represented this opinion, have left the fundamental position of the Social Democratic Programmatics. I have been negotiating a government for hours with your Deputy Party President, Mr Fischer, especially with regard to the importance of direct democracy. He always told me: We Socialists are on the ground of representative democracy! We have talked about financial laws that cannot be voted on by the people. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Did you also talk about the tuition fees you previously rejected?]] This is precisely stated in the government agreement with you that has not been reached. So I take note: You have thrown this SPÖ programmatic overboard in a great imagination. You now want the direct election of the government, and you are for the confirmation of financial laws by referendum. We take note of this change of course, Mr Gusenbauer. But are you actually aware that you are inventing the Third Republic that you have always rejected? [[Abg. May. Posch: That's a nonsense!]] That was exactly the concept of the Third Republic: Direct election of the Federal Chancellor, election of the government, direct democracy in important parts. [[Abg. May. Posch: There you can only hit your hands over your head!]] I can only quote Shakespeare, who says: "If this is awesome, it has method." [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] – Polonius says that in "Hamlet" if you want to know exactly. The Federal Government, supported by the majority of the national councils, is not legitimate, you think. [[Abg. May. Posch: Khol, the "great" Constitutional Protector, the "Hüter" of the Austrian federal constitution!]] The government formed by a Christian-Democratic party with a party on the right of the middle is not legitimate and must be fought from abroad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: The great patriot!]] But a minority government without a majority in this House, which would be legitimate? They've been trying to do it! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] A government with Marxists, such as the Italian Communists, and how the French Communists were and are – which are represented in both countries in the government! – these are your friends, they are legitimate!? – Now we know the solution to the mystery: What is legitimate? – Legitim is a government only if the Social Democrats put the Federal Chancellor in it! That's your legitimacy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not the Socialist International decides which government we have in Austria. Nor will it be that you, Mr Gusenbauer, can say that only such a government is legitimate, in which you – almost with a magic formula, by setting another party as non-governmental – appoint the pragmatized Federal Chancellor. It's over! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] Mr. Van der Bellen! You have shown your chocolate side here in the Hohe Haus today. I agree with many of what you said to the state finances and find it remarkable how different you have been from your biggest competitor, the Social Democrats. [[Abg. May. Posch: He knows himself in contrast to the Minister of Finance!]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] In terms of content, you have already passed the rank. They are now the larger opposition party as far as the thoughts about state finances are concerned. I just wanted to tell you that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Today you are very weak!]] But I would also like to address the shadow side, namely the rewriting of the history of our homeland, Professor Van der Bellen. We won't take them! I turn to this question: What was 1938 in our country? Now to you, Professor Van der Bellen, and to the Social Democrats. [[Deputies Dr. Fischer and Dr. Van der Bellen:And before!]] A number of points have once been put out of dispute: 1938 was a majority of the Austrians against the "connect" and many, many of them died in the SS extermination camps. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Austrofascism! Let's talk about it!]] Secondly, In 1938, too many Austrians welcomed the "connectation", many too many became part of the National Socialist extermination machine and have been blamed! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Does the bowl know?]] Thirdly, In 1938 Austria was wiped out as an independent state, against the will of its government, against the will of the majority of its people, by force. Austria has therefore become the victim of the National Socialist aggression! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Fourth: The Allies recognized this before the end of the war as well as the four Contracting Parties and the United Nations. I myself was here in the National Council in 1991 – I was sitting a little further behind – when German Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky gave a speech under the applause of ÖVP and SPÖ – "living applause from SPÖ and ÖVP". In this there are the same elements as I quoted them before: Many have resisted, not a few Austrians have brought great suffering on behalf of others on behalf of this regime. It was undisputed, says Vranitzky, that in March 1938 Austria became victims of a military aggression with hundreds of thousands of victims, many of whom had welcomed the "connectation" were involved. Vrannitzky also spoke of the moral responsibility for the actions of our citizens. Nothing else, Professor Van der Bellen, Wolfgang Schüssel did on 9 October. November the "Jerusalem Post" said to you! There came from you the severe criticism that we were perpetrators and not victims. – Ladies and gentlemen! We oppose the historical truth of history, a definite no to this revisionism of the history of our country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I conclude with quotations from an article by Rudolf Burger – a certainly in no way close to the Freeman or the People's Party, but a strong critic of our government. Under the title "Resistance" he writes – I quote –: "This sentence of bowl is historically correct, that will confirm to you every historian. Nevertheless, a call goes through the country, which means a terrible setback behind the Vranitzky speech. This is hypocrisy to the highest degree." [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And he goes on to say – I quote –: "I am disturbed by the secrecy of my friends in social democracy, which are now screaming and outraged. It does not draw attention to the fact that there were leading social democrats who welcomed them after they had been joined." – There is nothing to add to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5161	Mr Van der Bellen spoke on a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5212	I'm doing a little hard now, I actually wanted to do the funny part of your speech – how do you say? – correct matters. [[Abg. Grabner: That wasn't a joke at all!]] That is what I am doing and I am not referring to the problematic, especially the last part of your speech. Mr Khol has said that if Mr Gusenbauer's speech had been assessed by me, I would have assessed this speech with a 'not enough'. [[Abg. Dr. Khol, I said "fall through"!]] Mr Khol! I point this more cynical figure back to the sharpest. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Enough?]] True is the opposite: I liked the speech very much, as did yours – except for the last five minutes. [[Abg. May. Posch: That was incredible!]] At least rhetorically, I thought yours was very good.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5298	Mr Gusenbauer has also referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5331	Mr President. Mr Khol said that the differences between the Social Democrats and the ÖVP on the question of the zero deficit had failed the coalition negotiations and the Social Democrats wanted to slow them all down. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In the exhausted reform force!]] I quote as follows: Within five years, Austria is expected to reduce its budget deficit towards one percent of GDP. This objective must not be achieved by increasing the tax and tax rate. – This was the position of the ÖVP party board of directors of the 13th century. December 1999, just so that we know what the real ÖVP position was. Second point: Mr Khol claimed that, on 23 March, the Commission had adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. There would have been a Bureau of the Socialist International who would have decided on the sanctions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I didn't say!]] True is rather: No Bureau took place on that day. True is rather: The Socialist International has never decided, but the sanctions go back to the initiative of your party friends Chirac and Aznar.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5387	It is now speaking to Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5417	Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's why you have to praise in advance!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I should like to return to the budget and the political situation of the Republic from the distribution of grades during examinations. Of course, it is true that many from the beginning have tried to defy and condemn this federal government and the political parties that support it, as not legitimate, as not permitted, as a taboo break and whatever. This is, of course, quite possible in the political debate. However, I believe that the methods that have been tried for nine months to question the political credibility and admissibility of this project must also be discussed. In these nine months, we have really done everything we can to reduce the international pressure over which sanctions have been imposed on this government – and it has not succeeded, we are still there. This democratic government has been tried to fall through the streets, through the mobilization of demonstrations that have at times already been quite anarchic. And we're still there. One has tried through the social component – keyword: The Republic will burn! Right now. People's chain around the High House! – a lot... – honourable Member, I appreciate you as democrats. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The same thing the Khol just said!]] And it actually hit me in my heart that, when honourable Member Westenthal said that there were democrats in the house, some laughed. I don't think that's right. I can't do that. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: He said "lupenrein"!]] We're all democrats sitting here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, you have the absolutely legitimate right to criticise this government, but you do not have the right to have democratic legitimacy, expressed by the only body in democracy – and that is the voters! – to take. 54 percent of Austrian voters support these two parties, who have elected their representatives, in turn have given us confidence, and the Federal President has praised us. That's it! And that is democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I say, also as a strong supporter of the social partners: One should consider steps in this regard, as well as the sensibleness, yes, the admissibility of some political protests. [[Abg. Silhavy: Now it will be pretty slow! To question the admissibility of political protests!]] It is a value in itself if there are over-participative interests of workers, employers, Austrian farmers. [[Abg. Heinzl: Zensur!]] But if that is so, I believe that credibility, the credibility of such an over-party social partnership, as well as the over-participality of its actions, will arise. That is crucial, and that must remain. If that happens, we've risked a lot more than you might know today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You're right, you can measure us by what you're doing. I'm far from swirling the incense vessel now, because we don't need that at all, we don't need it. We're not perfect, but at least we've worked hard in these nine months. That we have more support today than at the beginning is also linked to the quality and professionalism of our work, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore: Let's discuss the facts – I'll pick up the ball! If Alfred Gusenbauer now tries to focus on the economic facts after the somewhat laborious "press hour", I say: Let's do that! We have the best economic growth for many, many years throughout the year 2000. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: And how does it look in Europe?]] So this project can't have been so harmful. We are scratching with the export at the moment at the 1 000 billion schilling border, with Germany this year for the first time have reached 100 billion schilling of exports and imports, i.e. in both directions. That is what we can be proud of, namely, all sides. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] To the jobs. Let's see who's better in Europe: The Luxembourgers! All right, I admit that. They also have a special case I really like them. And with us, the Dutch – they are just ahead of us – are at the top of Europe. [[Abg. Edler: It was like that before!]] Who needs to generate for this comparison? – This Austrian government is certainly not, dear friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You quoted the job vacancies. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a cynical access to the labour market!]] Let us leave this discussion now – I have found what Peter Westenthaler has said – but to the facts, access to the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Blank cynicism!]] Mr Deputies, Mr Gusenbauer! Let's take a look at this! Within a year, we have a 20 percent drop in the number of older unemployed – and the number counts, which is the most important of all. We can be proud of this together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Inflation: Deputies! If you already address them, please make them economically precise. The inflation rate has risen in us as in all other European countries. [[Abg. Edlinger: Above average!]] Please, take a look at the comparisons! We are still below the EU average. Only one thing you can't do: compare the national Austrian data with the EU data. If so, then you have to take the harmonised Austrian inflation data, and after these we are three tenths below the EU average. If so, then you are honest and serious, honourable Member. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also hold back the comparison with regard to social responsibility at any time, and despite the toughest budget restrictions – and so it was not easy, 1.5 percent; 3 percent had to be turned, so to speak, because there are, of course, automatic developments on the expenditure side. You can't always just transfer the numbers one year to the next. What would have happened, what would have been the effect, would we not have opposed it? We had to "turn" a total volume of more than 3 percent of the gross domestic product. We don't like that easily. At the same time, however, we have brought together a wage and salary increase of over 5 billion schilling for the next two years for Austrian officials. There's no doubt left. In these times, we have made the most of the savings needed for the Austrian pensioners for the next year at least 5.5 billion schilling additional income. Why Do Not Hide Are you aware of these facts? Why Shame Do you have a direct comparison? You might as well criticize a lot of things, I would see that. But also mention the positive successes: over 5 billion Schilling 2001 and 2002 for officials, and 5.5 billion Schilling plus for Austrian pensioners. This is socially fair, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yeah, we raised the early retirement age. And now I say quite openly: I'm on it! It requires respect for people – whether younger or medium-sized Age or older – to tell you the truth. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's a nonsense!]] In times of long life expectancy, in times when the duration of training has increased and from a demographic point of view, it would be crazy to close our eyes to ensuring the financial viability of the social network in the future. [[Abg. May. Posch: I don't know about the labour market! Refusal of reality!]] This is what we stand for, and this step – a careful increase in the early retirement age by 18 months – was absolutely necessary, but other European countries have long before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Privatization and extraordinary proceeds, Mr Gusenbauer, I do not know what information you have received from the former responsible Minister of Transport One as regards the sale, the privatisation of UMTS' licenses. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: When will the next auction come?]] In any case, you said it would have been all prepared for March 2000. I can read to you – I myself have telephoned with the previous Minister of Transport and the current Minister – which was really scheduled by the former Minister of Transport. It was planned to produce the legal basis until January 2000, the award of the regional frequencies September 2000, the UMTS August 2000, the award of UMTS in 2001. At your pace, honourable Member, we would still not have the auction of licences. And I have to say that Michael Schmid must be congratulated for driving things forward more courageously and faster than the former Minister of Social Democratic Transport did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: He really needs a lot of courage!]] After all, in the first nine months with the privatisations and the proceeds from the license we have already presented to the 50 billion schillings. That's not so little. You are right, and I agree with the critical remarks made by Mr Van der Bellen: Of course, one should have made the right regulatory decisions much earlier. To do this, you also have to say the truth: We have always been in favour of not preferring the exchange as a whole, but rather, like most or all other European countries, in time, separating postal and telecoms and trying to find a marketable strategy for each of these important areas. This has been delayed for years and has been made much too late because there has been pressure from you. You have to say that openly. However, it was not good for the companies concerned. Then time was lost due to personnel decisions. One then responded to God's thanks, but unfortunately a few years too late. The big question was now, in a situation, as there was no longer the exhilarating climate for the New Economy and for the exchanges of all Deutsche Telekom companies: Let's move the stock exchange, or do we go this way now? – I am full of the opinion of the Minister of Finance, but also of the ÖIAG professional, that it was right to continue this path consistently now, because this is the only chance that we are preparing these companies, these important leading companies in Austria, on the market, so that they work close to citizens and customer-oriented, because this is the only way that is going to happen. Everything else you are saying here is really political profiling or political polemics, which is, of course, permissible, but does not correspond to the facts. Therefore: Let's call things by name what they actually were! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Privatization disaster!]] – Now it was such a quiet call that I didn’t understand it. Of course, you are right that there is no economic theory that forces us to have a zero deficit in 2002. But I also say quite frankly to you that now is the right time. I have experienced too many attempts, in vain or halfhearted attempts, to reduce the budget deficit a little. The result was always that debt was transferred out of budget somewhere, parked somewhere. But above all, the experiences of recent Austrian history show that powerful lobbys have always come and have brought down any well-intentioned approach through enormous counterwinds. And that can't happen. Therefore, like most other European countries, which already have surpluses today, we have agreed to set ourselves an ambitious goal: The future without debt, and with this in mind, also have the courage to take the necessary measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm taking this up now, because Professor. Van der Bellen said that essentially he liked everything about Andreas Khol's speech except for the last 5 minutes. I'm telling you, just the last 5 minutes are important, it's important that we remember that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: Unbelievable carelessness!]] I would like to say exactly what I stand for and what I mean: In this Federal Government, Mrs Vice-Chancellor and the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we have, like no other government before us, the commitments, the moral obligations together with the High House offensively and positively accepted and accepted. We are in favour of this because a 6-billion-billion-shipping forced labour fund in times of extreme tension of public finances, including private finances, is not so obvious. The 150 million dollar programme we are now offering in the restitution negotiations is not caused by legal or legal responsibility either. It is a moral obligation that we see and carry. – So, these are the actions that we and hopefully all Austria are measured at. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Posch.]] [[Call the Freeman – towards SPÖ –:No calls from the wrong place!]] Mr Posch! But one of this knowledge and also of the knowledge of Austrian history is that we must not forget the slow death of Austria from 1934 to 1938. In recent days I have read again Guido Zernatto's chronology of evil, "Three Days on which Austria died", published in a book that Thomas Chorherr, I think, published ten years ago. Therein are the telephone protocols of the days 11. ==References== ==References====External links== Try to understand with me the thought that you must not forget what happened. On this 11th. March 1938, there were about 30 telephone calls, the – crazy regime! – all exactly documented and recorded. They are readable at any time for time historians and interested people. At 5:26 a.m., Hermann Göring Seyß-Inquart, so to speak, calls his national minister in the Schuschnigg government at the time, and asks him: So what about the ultimatum we've put? – Schuschnigg must resign, and Seyß-Inquart must be commissioned by the Austrian President Miklas to lead the government business. The referendum, which Nazi Germany feared, must be cancelled. I quote: "Seyß-Inquart: I'm on the device. Going: So please: You want to go to the Federal President immediately with the Lieutenant General Muff (German Military Attaché in Vienna) and tell him: If he does not immediately accept the demands – you know them – then tonight the invasion of the already marching and rolling troops on the border takes place, and the existence of Austria is over! The Lieutenant General Muff wants to go with you and ask to be presented immediately and to do so. Please, let us know immediately what position Miklas has to take. Tell him there's no fun now. Now the thing is that tonight the invasion begins at all places of Austria. The invasion will be stopped only then, and the troops will stay at the border if we have the notice by 7 p.m. 30 that the Miklas has transferred the Federal Chancellorship to you. Accomplish the immediate restoration of the party with all its organizations" – the NSDAP was banned until then – "and then let the National Socialists go up all over the country now. You can go to the street everywhere. So until 7 p.m. 30 notice! The Lieutenant General Muff is supposed to go with you. I'll give Muff the same instructions right away. If the Miklas doesn't get it in four hours, he'll have to get it in four minutes!" Ladies and gentlemen! This is the true background – Miklas has not gone, it has been threatened with stand-by courts – why in 1943 in the Moscow Declaration the Allies gave a remarkably differentiated opinion. They have literally declared: The annexation of Austria by Germany, the attack on the 13th century. March, be null and void. Austria, which was the first free country to fall victim to the Nazi attack, is to be freed from German rule. But they have also addressed the responsibility of Austrians by participating in the war on the side of Hitler-Germany. And don't forget that in April 1945 the leaders of the Social Democrats, the Communists and the Christian Democrats formulated this statement, this declaration of independence in a Preamble, as we have said now. I mean, respect for the victims also demands – the former editor-in-chief of the "Small Newspaper" pointed out in an article – that we, the descendants, remember that only in the first 14 days, between 12 and 21 days. March 1938, at least 90,000 Austrians – some, many, too many, hundreds of thousands rejoiced, and hundreds of thousands wept – were arrested by Gestapo. Gordon Brook-Shepherd – not one who is close to us but an objective scientist – has estimated that in the war 80 000 to 100 000 Austrians had to pay their opposition to Hitler with life or with freedom. The Austrian Parliament – the first to meet in 1945 – consisted of three quarters of former victims of National Socialism, prisoners of concentration camps or other prisons. – I mean, it also demands respect for these victims that we do not forget how Austria went down in 1938. And nothing and no one can and must prevent us from bearing the moral, political responsibility for the action of Austrians who have taken part in Hitler's crime regime. But the whole truth, that's the only thing we need to remember today. We owe this to history, but also to the present and to the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5790	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e5811	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Today, we are talking about the 2001 budget, in accordance with the budget accompanying legislation passed by the government parties in this House last week. Many Austrians wonder and wonder why this federal government is so consistently pervading this conflict of cruelty without discussion, without consensus towards those affected. They call for the majority of surveys, and it is therefore quite legitimate for us as the opposition party to question this with a popular survey. I believe that this is a legitimate instrument of opposition, especially if the government refuses consensus and dialogue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not so, ladies and gentlemen, that everywhere, in all comments and discussions, this government is celebrated – even if the Chancellor wishes it –: More and more commentators and public critics take on the important arguments put forward by the opposition parties in this House. I cannot see at all how the clubman of the Freedom Party came up with the idea that the commentators of the important Austrian media criticize the opposition. I would like to remind you that even on the day on which the budget of the year 2000 was presented, important Austrian commentators have made the following comments: Mr. Kotanko in the "Kurier" wrote: We're dealing with a coalition of cutbacks. – Mr. Kindermann in the "Kronen Zeitung" wrote on the same day: The government can no longer address its credibility problems. – And the "FORMAT" spoke of the "Tachschreiber Cabinet". If you want to hear more such commentators, I would like to point out that Peter Rabl wrote in the "Kurier" on Sunday: "In the National Council, the majority of the government decided on 90 so-called budget accompanying laws. Their result is the highest tax burden ever imposed on the Austrians – as a price for the zero deficit raised in 2002." [[Abg. Böhacker: (a newspaper whose headline signals approval of the government's saving course, keeping to the height) wrong!]] "Wherever it is impossible to understand what – except for the regular 2003 elections – these Has justified the need to reorganise in principle." The government bonus, ladies and gentlemen, which every federal government has, is obviously not enough for you. You know how weak Your arguments are, and you also know how increasingly the public finally gets to feel these load packs. And so you get into the tax pot in an extremely abusive way: many millions don't for information, many millions for naked government propaganda. It is not the question of waste that is at the heart of this, but, in fact, an inaccurate information, a dispute with the opposition and with all those who do not believe in this government, at the expense of the taxpayer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The four-week announcement of the continuation series of the deception of this federal government towards the Austrian population in the "Kronen Zeitung" will cost an amount of between 5 million and 6 million Schilling. Now I'm wondering, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: What kind of information is this when I sum up in a colored listing in the magazines: "Every Austrian is burdened with 217,000 s per head, and Austria is soon bankrupt"? How to argue You're making this false report? Do you think Austria is bankrupt? Can a state even become bankruptcy? But They suggest this negative association of the Austrian population with their own money. This is abuse, ladies and gentlemen, which you are doing here with taxpayers' money! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is not bankrupt. That's the biggest deception maneuver you've started. The debt, as you know, is below the edge of the European Union. The methods of discussion of which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has spoken are really influenced by the principle of concrete displacement. If you are talking about the debt in Austria, if you know that the debt in Austria has grown especially in the 13 years of the black and red coalition, and if you know that in Austria all government decisions are to be taken unilaterally, you also know that there is no politician in Austria who has actively participated in as many debts as today's Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, namely 900 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are acting here in accordance with the method of deception and pretend that the consolidation, which, as you rightly say, was initiated in 1995, was supposed to have come to a standstill in 1998-1999, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Federal Chancellor, are forcing this double budget to be presented jointly by me and your Minister of Economic Affairs Farnleitner and that we knew at that time that we had to replace the large number of one-time measures and preferential effects that we had used for the 1997 budget in order to definitely meet the EMU criteria with measures of sustainability. I would particularly like to remind you of the discussions we conducted in 1998 in connection with the tax reform. 45 billion Schilling decided by the ÖVP Club in October 1998! I recall the discussions on the verge of the Aussee government clause when you put me under massive pressure – but I admit, supported by the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Ah, that's how it was!]] I would like to quote another commentator, Mr Kotanko, who writes to you in the "Kurier" book: "The ÖVP adheres to its history and pretends to have been the sole government of Edellinger from 1987 to 1999. - Quote. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, your arguments are interpreted by the independent press! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria is not a country that would be a bankruptcy. In the 30 years of social-democratic politics, Austria has become a rich country in Europe from a backyard country. The standard of living today is not 38 percent below that of the Germans, but 5 percent above it. We have invested in education and training. We have guaranteed free access to education, which you are now turning back. We've developed the health system. We've developed the infrastructure. We have made this country one of the richest countries in the European Union, with social balance that you are now destroying! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the tangible balance sheet, the government is trying to deceive. As has been said, the 1995 budget consolidation has begun. When Mr. Professor Van der Bellen does not know why this government is so hard to consolidate only the 2% over the next two years, while the government once consolidated 3 and more percent, then I can help him to jump. He forgets the government programme. The government program promises gifts of nearly 60 billion schilling or 2% of gross domestic product. In other words, today's social-political atrocities are used to finance the gifts to entrepreneurs and large farmers, and the federal army and others are more financed. That is what you forget to consider in the argument! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The actual budget situation is presented overly in order to stimulate the willingness to sacrifice. In fact, it is almost grateful and clear, if, for example, the Federal Minister of Finance loosely pleads in a discussion and says: Yes, the goal zero deficit is a keyword from the trick box of political marketing; one can make it clearer for people than minus 0.5 or 0.7! That is to say, the political trick box must stand here to finally present the more socially weak to the hairdresser, as you do, Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Westenthaler said: In 2001, the lower incomes averaged 5 billion more than in 1999. I am grateful to him for this bill. At the end of 2002, taking into account the tax reform decided by us, the bottom three of the income would have had 15 billion more, 50 percent of the tax and family reform. You admit that with your actions you take 10 billion away from the lower incomes! I am really grateful to you for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To make your budget sound, step into the public and try to privatize. At least I question the professionalism of this privatisation campaign. When selling UMTS licenses, a very poor revenue was achieved at 11.4 billion Schilling in international comparison. If we turn this over to the respective gross domestic product, then in Austria it has been 0.4 percent of GDP. In Germany 2.5 percent were reached, also in the UK 2.5 percent, in Italy 1.2, in France 1.1 and even in the Netherlands 0.7 percent. They are trying to present this as a positive accent, and have to do with the fact that the Telekom share has been marketed with huge advertising expenditure as a popular share, which has, in any case, left "share-disrupted" savers in Austria in a sustainable way. You have finally added the most sustainable damage to the Austrian capital market with this up-to-date-come-out auction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Three brief remarks on privatisation: The fact that I am so skeptical about this is due to the way you deal with conflicts of interest. Here you occupy the Supervisory Board of ÖIAG – supposedly depoliticized – with loud members of the blue rope companies that do not make any hales of having individual interests when it comes to throwing the substance of ÖIAG on the market. That's classical incompatibility! This is something that causes you serious damage to the Austrian people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you place the most important competitors of the ÖBB, such as an Managing Director of the largest transport company, in the Supervisory Board of the ÖBB, so that the competitors know what is going on there, and only because he is the husband of a blue MP, then the classic incompatibility and simply political strategy! If in the area of BUWOG you are a well-known broker who has very individual, private economic interests, so that you order to eventually oversee the sale of social housing in the Supervisory Board, then make the bock a gardener, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's it!]] I believe and am convinced that your privatisation is based on the motto "Great value and small price", so that the friends can profit from the excellent business assets of Austrian companies as cheap as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude by making a few comments on another subject which has been raised in the debate. At the end of his contribution to the debate, the Federal Chancellor felt obliged to present here some interpretations of his own willful view of the history of our Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No "interpretation"! – He brought facts!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Historian statements!]] However, as much history is required and as much as I welcome the fact that a forced labour fund is being created, we still need to talk about its funding. There is obviously no more talk of fifty-fifty between the taxpayer and the economy. I suspect that you could use surpluses from unemployment insurance to do this fund, and then it is clear who is feeding this forced labour fund. But I do not understand, with all due respect, one, Mr. Federal Chancellor: this torment, this self-pity that you have. I thought it more than strange that on the day of the so-called Reich crystal night, you had nothing better to do than to present Austria in its sacrifice role. This is a falsification of history, ladies and gentlemen, and does not benefit us internationally at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kurzbauer: What you are doing...! That's great!]] Because, Mr Westenthaler, in view of the party chairman of the Social Democratic Party, you meant that we did not understand democracy, I say to you: [[Abg. Böhacker: He's right!]] If ministers are involved in the summit and there is no resignation, then you have not understood democracy! If a minister is involved in illegal money acquisition and does not resign, he has not understood democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're back in the pre-condemnation!]] If a government party puts pressure on investigators and does not resign, then democracy has not been understood, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Already again pre-judgment!]] If a high country party observer of you calls the investigators and their methods "anxious than at the Gestapo" and does not resign, then you did not understand democracy. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Speaking time!]] If another national party observer calls the President of the Federal Republic "Hump" or "Dump" and does not resign, then you did not understand democracy. But you do not even know what it is about when we talk about democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6056	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6090	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! Mr Edlinger, what do you think? You understand it under democracy is: As long as a socialist government is democratically elected, it is democracy; if another government comes along on this path, it is undemocratic. – You can't agree with us about this understanding! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Edlinger! They have been criticizing post and Telekom. What has been the case in recent years? The post has had to deliver a lot of revenue from phone fees to the budget: in an order of 110 billion schilling. We kept pointing out that it was not possible at the time. You used it for budget recovery. This is not our way, this federal government is going a new way. It is now clear that we have to deal with the starting point. Austria is at the end of the annual re-indebtedness – you know that, Mr Edlinger! Many EU countries have managed, in times of good economic activity, to settle the re-indebtedness or even to generate light surpluses. Let us look at the development of budget deficits and surpluses. Development in Austria is the following: 1998 minus 2.3 percent, 1999 minus 2.1 percent, 2000 minus 1.6%. Other countries have achieved quite different successes in times of high-economy. Germany: 1998 minus 2.1 percent, 1999 minus 1.4 percent, 2000 surplus plus 1.3 percent. [[Abg. Edlinger: 10 percent unemployed! They have 10 percent unemployed, Mr Trattner!]] Spain: minus 2.6%, 1999 minus 1.1%, 2000 minus 0.4%. [[Abg. Edlinger: People don't see you!]] Even Greece and Italy, all of us have been overtaken by budget consolidation! You can't say: The speed's not all right. – Unfortunately, you have slept all of this, so we need to react now! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are now in a situation where we have 1,700 billion old debt. We are in the situation that we have 300 billion extra-budget debt for road construction, ÖIAG and the like. The state must provide 250 billion schilling a year for credit repayments – interest plus repayment – and only 114 billion schilling go to interest service. This means that if we had continued to do so, in the next few years more would have been spent on interest service or repayments than on education, culture and science! That is, if we do nothing, we would have to spend more money on the sins of the past than on investments in the future! This mistake has finally stopped this federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is aware that the moment is right, and it is not alone in this assessment. The OECD also says: In principle, the time of consolidation is considered to be the right one. The path of the zero deficit is also properly chosen until 2002. We currently have a real 3.5 percent economic growth. In 2001, we will have an economic growth of 2.8 percent, the forecasts going in this direction. If you criticise and say that the budget consolidation measures would harm economic growth in such a way that we are experiencing disadvantages in the international comparison, then I must say that this reduction is only 0.2 percent. The forecasts for the 2001 growth rate for the Federal Republic of Germany amount to 2.7 per cent and for Austria to 2.8 per cent, which is exactly the EU average. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This means that these consolidation measures are necessary. We are therefore in the EU average. If we did not start these consolidation measures in the form now, then there would be huge damage across the country. I will come back to that in the course of my speech. Why is development so favourable? – The employment situation is excellent. There are more and more employees, the unemployment rate is falling. As regards older unemployed, the unemployment rate has been reduced by 20 percent. Above all, it is important that almost 60 percent of the Austrian population conform to this consolidation course. 60 percent of the Austrian population say: It is now important to reorganise the budget in order not to destroy the prospects for the future. Not only the Austrian population is of this opinion, but also the experts advise on this saving course. I quote Professor Streissler: "The budget renewal is not something you can push. Finally, the Maastricht Treaties have constitutional status." Felder says: "The Minister of Finance has done on the expenditure side what was politically possible in the near future. In the medium term, i.e. in two to three years, consolidation measures should have positive effects." Helmut Kramer, Head of the Economic Research Institute: "The consolidation of state finances would also have been necessary outside the EU's Mastricht criteria." Why is it so necessary? – It is not about any arbitrary measure when we say: The budget deficit must be reduced, or we must see that we will generate surpluses in the future. We can see this by a very simple example. We pay 114 billion schillings a year in interest because of the previous budget policy – that was your budget policy, Mr Alt-Finanzminister! As regards interest rates, we have had an increase in the order of 0.38 percentage points over the Federal Republic of Germany. You know that this margin has already been reduced to 0.3 by the budget consolidation measures for the 2000 budget. If you still understand the monetary impact that 0.1 percentage point alone is already 2.2 billion schilling in interest, then you will know how necessary it is to finally stop debt making and move to surplus! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In concrete terms, there are measures on the expenditure side in the order of 42.8 billion Schilling, which primarily concern pension and administrative expenditure, and of course there are also tax increases. Of course, it would have been preferable for us to abandon certain measures. It would have been better for us to give the population more money. This legacy, which we have taken over from you, has not made it possible for us to make savings only on the expenditure side. However, we have done one thing, and that is the difference to your budget policy, Mr Edlinger: For the load packages that you initiated, the entire population was "scratted" and the entire population was used; it was reduced the care allowance, the care allowance was reduced; They just went across it. This federal government has addressed the matter with a little sensitivity. It has said that part of it is intended to help entrepreneurs to contribute to those professional groups which can also afford to do so. Some of the foundations contribute, in the order of magnitude, that the tax rate is doubled to the foundations or that revenue remaining in the foundations that have previously been tax-free are taxed. This distinguishes us from the old Federal Government with you as Minister of Finance: We have taken account of the socially weak! 75 percent of the population suffers no damage and has not been affected by tax increases. Mr Altfinanzminister, you said at a press conference that the budget was not a refurbishment case. As Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance, reorganises the budget – I quote: Abstain additional expenditure for army and agriculture – there is no amount in it – everyone can think what he wants – no reduction in the additional wage costs during this legislative period. Mr Altfinanzminister! Do you know the EU report? Do you know where Austria is at the extra wage cost? This government has undertaken to reduce additional wage costs by 15 billion schilling by 2003 because that is necessary. [[Abg. Edlinger: Because you imagine! It's not necessary at all!]] But you say in a press conference: no reduction in additional labour costs during this legislative period! Austria is more than 2 per cent above the EU average for wage-dependent taxes, without social security contributions, and is a clear OECD index rider, with a gross domestic product of more than 2 per cent, equivalent to almost 70 billion schilling. This means that our additional wage costs are 70 billion schilling higher than in the EU section, and that is why the Federal Government is of the opinion that it is extremely important to reduce the additional wage costs. The first step taken by the Federal Government in this legislative period is the reduction of additional wage costs by 15 billion schilling by 2003. [[Abg. Edlinger: There is the 13th and 14th in there! This argument is absurd!]] These are measures that will ensure the economic location and employment in the future. They always live in the world of phenomena or one-time effects. You think once we realize something that's successful, it's all right. The same is true of your argumentation when selling Deutsche Telekom shares. For us and for many strategic investors and also for the private investor, a stock is a security. On the other hand, you think a stock is a lottery ticket, where today there is an issue price of 9, and in a week the price may be at 12, and I can sell. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's what you've predicted to the citizens that it's a lottery ticket! I'll throw that before you!]] You're blue-eyeed in this relationship. If the citizen had suffered damage, the damage would have been different, in the form that the papers had come on the market at 12 or 13 and then the course would have slipped to 8. Then I would have followed your argument, but our procedure that you have gone out carefully with 9 and that you secure the course as a long-term paper keeps your argumentation standing at all times. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And if you argue there in your clumsy kind... [[Abg. Silhavy: The shareholder might have a damage there! How much percent of the population are shareholders?]] – Carrying First, take a look at your rental conditions on Löwelstraße! Put it in order, then we can talk about other things again. Then you're socially credible again, but as long as you don't regulate that, you're not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] They also issue false bills! There is an invoice in the election campaign in Burgenland – who is the signatory?, aha: Media holder: SPÖ Burgenland! – and that's what it says: Study fee for a child – 10 000 S of load. It does not take into account social aspects, since it does not take into account that scholarships will increase, nor does it take into account that children from socially weak families are guaranteed and guaranteed access to universities through scholarships. The second area you are using: the fuel price. It's said he'd lost 3 360 s. – This has nothing to do with the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But you deserve it!]] This is the Rohelp's trip, that's the price risk that happened here! Let us be glad that, thanks to this Federal Government, the mineral oil tax as you wanted it to be, Mr Edlinger, in the order of 1.10 s has not been borne that the new Federal Government has not done so. Otherwise, the petrol price would have been much higher than it is at present. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] You would have been responsible if the mineral oil tax had been introduced in the form you wanted! With the car insurance tax, you assume with a rating of 1 300 s that each Burgenländer has a Mercedes 500 S. – You are no longer credible! Do you really think things are right, and do not charge for a burden of 17 000 s, because these bills do not vote in the front and in the back? Unfortunately, just as the papers of the SPÖ-Burgenland do not vote, your papers, which you often presented here at the address, have not voted. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a patched argument, Mr Trattner!]] The fact that the Federal Government has not only launched budgetary consolidation measures, but has also provided some for technology and research is also evident from the fact that 10 billion schilling is provided for technology and research alone. And it is also to be seen that the Federal Government has also kept promises such as the equality of workers and employees, which was obviously not possible under your government participation. They have put certain things in view, but they have not gone through. This includes, for example, the compensation for the damage caused to forced workers in the order of 6 billion schilling. This has just been done by this Federal Government, and I would like to thank Mrs Schaumayer or Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mrs Vice-Chancellor for this, because it is unique what has happened. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is the Federal Chancellor – and not the Vice chancellor!]] We should be proud that we have succeeded, and you should not make Austrian budget policy in such a way as you do. Our budgetary policy is an attempt in the right direction, supported by data from economic researchers. It will be possible to implement these measures in the context of a strict budgetary policy. To your ever-increasing Compared with the state quota, Mr Edlinger, the state rate in Austria is now the same at once: You have to put the development of the state ratio into the calculation. The government ratio has developed as follows: In 1995, it was 49 percent, 51.8% in 1998, and 50.3% in 2000. And if You compare the state rate internationally, then you also have to draw three areas into the calculation, the other countries do not have the area of pensions once. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's hard, Mr. Trattner!]] Pensions are not taxed in other countries, such as Germany, and there is no extension of the balance sheet. The second area is child support, where other countries are working with tax deposits, but we are using aid, which also leads to an increase in the balance sheet and to an increase in the government rate. The third area is the promotion of housing, where 23 billion Schilling is also made available through direct annuities grants or interest subsidies. There are other tax options in other countries, such as the deductibility of interest rates for private individuals. That's about 3 to 4 percent. That is to say, the state rate in Austria is internationally comparable, and if you correct these things, we are in the EU average. On the whole, the Freedom Party will give its approval to this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6321	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6342	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear colleagues! The German Chancellor Schüssel has mentioned a few things which, from the Green Group's point of view, cannot be contradicted. Mr Khol: This government is stronger than ever. - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Right!]] This government stands. The question is only what it stands for. Whether it stands with its back to the wall, we will light up extra, but what does it stand for? First of all, this government stands by the fact that, as far as the statements on the darkest chapters of the history of this Republic are concerned, they fall behind the standard of the Vranitzky Cabinet, if this term is permitted in this context. This is certainly the case with the bowl statements. I'm going to get even closer to that now. "The whole truth should be strengthened," says the Federal Chancellor. All the truth! But he himself presents only a small cut, a really formal aspect of the sequence. Historians can well distinguish the concepts. The Federal Chancellor described that there was a "connect" printing from the outside. But there was also "connect" wish and a "connect" print from the inside. Even in the government there have been trends in this direction at that time. There was also a "connection" printing – and this is the most thoughtful and also the worst aftertaste seen – from below. By the way: If the whole truth is true, you should not forget the years 1934 to 1938 and Dolfuß and Schuschnigg completely. But let us remain only with the national socialist aspects. The "connect" print from below is actually the tragedy for the Republic, even today, and the handling and displacement that has taken place. And precisely in this context, it is so tragic when Austria's victim role is increasingly stressed over and over again, because it is precisely under this cover, precisely so that for decades silence has been justified. Whole teacher generations have been able to live with it and have been equipped with it and sent on the journey that they have stopped teaching history in 1918. It was still argued that Austria was alleged to have been victims. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Nicer.]] That is why there are other victims of this approach and approach, namely those who have been deprived of the truth. I'm actually counting on that. I have only been confronted at the upper level of the Realgymnasium with what has happened in Austria, and I think this is embarrassing. At the end of the 1970s I was in a so-called progressive school. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you already know what this is about. You too are not entirely responsible for covering up historical truths in our country. The justification for this was always that Austria was a victim. That is why we should be careful with these terms, and above all we should not put this one aspect, which the Federal Chancellor has historically highlighted here, in such a way as to highlight. I am not a historian myself, but I trust to judge these views already, and I am also sure that other prominent historians do not promote otherwise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] At any rate, I would not take the chancellor into this Riege, but would like to quote the German historian Hans Mommsen and prove once again that it was a big problem in Austria that there was a "connect" print from the inside and, above all, from the bottom. Mommsen: The enthusiasm of the majority of the Austrians about the union with the empire was real – really! – and the scenes on the Heroes Square did not need to be set. No government propaganda needed to be organized. – This is what we must not ignore in this argumentation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And – unfortunately, the Chancellor is no longer present – as Steirer, I find something unpleasant to me about this debate – overrun by "connecting" and Austria. In Graz, the Nazis have already been in power, when no German military vehicle in Salzburg has been rolled across the border. In Graz, the town hall gates were already stormed by the Nazis, and a city government – or at least something that wanted to understand itself as such – was proclaimed. Later Graz was still honored for being the city of the People's Collection. This sad chapter proves the mood. I am not sure whether this should not be put back into the background and hidden again in that approach, as it is used by Chancellor's bowl. And this is the fatale of the debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: That's embarrassing! Painful!]] Mr Khol! This government is, in any case, standing. For what? – This government is precisely in favour of making Austria a victim over and over again. Again and again we are the victims. There is even a parallel to the debate on sanctions. Again it is that, after the sanctions have been removed and the external enemy has gotten away from you, now – and this is not a coincidence in time, I say – chancellor bowl out of itself, without need, this debate seeks and always plays in the public again and again. What else would have moved him to force this issue at the general debate on the budget after Khol had put the ball on him? What? They've got rid of the outside enemy, so the victim role of Austria will be strengthened again. A kitt for the coalition is being sought here, because the coalition is very in distress and is actually standing with the back to the wall – if it already "stands". That's the point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The idea behind it is relatively simple: Still Speculating Because of the opinions in this country, which is tragically like this – but perhaps the things I have described before have to do with it – that with an attitude as it takes in, you can bring much more than 50 percent of the Austrians to its side; that would fit. For the ÖVP, the great thing is that it can be safe with this attitude and approach to score also in the FPÖ clientele. She clearly won the race for number one within the government team, but she also won it in demarcation to SPÖ. And so this strategy can be explained. But this should not be reinterpreted by the history of our country, Mr Khol. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This government is indeed standing with its back to the wall. If we were to hold a general debate that goes beyond the general debate on the budget, it would have been appropriate to talk about the state of this government and that we have a minister of justice, which is the subject of investigations, but is still in office and does not resign. In any other democracy in Europe, that would have been the case for a long time, you know that very well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And again the government stands behind Bohemia because it can't afford it anymore or wants to let this man "shoot out" as it is called in the Jargon, although it would be doing much service to Böhmdorfer, that government itself and at least that country, it would take this step. In reality, it is not only a case of Böhmdorfer, but also a case of a bowl, because the chancellor is not acting here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, you are promoting the stability of this government. That was, I think, a transparent maneuver. In any event, any explanation for these activities and statements by the Federal Chancellor remains in the dark. I don't think of anything else. But if the item on the agenda is now "budget", we must unfortunately also diagnose that the Federal Government is persistently refusing to address the arguments that come from the opposition. I should therefore like to sum up once again what the Greens' criticisms are about this budget, and I would really ask you to address it once again, Mr State Secretary, which would be called a green budget policy. Translating to a few principles which are actually to be applied to every budget, in the sense of structural reforms, it is a sustainability of the budget, in times of social poverty, at least the budget should be poor and not poverty-promoting, and it should be a budget with a future orientation – and this should include, on the one hand, the research and education orientation and the innovation orientation that have been dealt with, on the other hand, also the issue of ecology. In all these three areas one can actually issue a bad witness. Why? – As far as the sustainability of the budget as such is concerned, it is quite clear that you have now contributed very much to consolidation with one-off measures. If one calculates these one-off measures, the expenditure and revenue ratio will also change completely, as opposed to the grasses' representations. According to our estimates, not even 30 percent of expenditure on the one hand would be consolidated but the heavy weight would rather be on fiscal consolidation – contrary to the persistent claims made by the Minister of Finance. It is already the question of how long the public can be led around by the nose that this government, as we admit to it, is offensive in this respect with a relatively good design of marketing measures. But a few questions of principle will I hope you're still willing and able to answer. It is indeed true that if one calculates the one-time effects, not much structural and consolidation effect for the future remains. – First point of criticism. Second criticism: Combating poverty. Much has already been said about this. In my opinion, the concept of social security is, in fact, only to be interpreted in such a way that those who are socially vulnerable are to be affected by poor families. This interpretation of the term seems to me to be the more acceptable, and he also speaks a clear language in his ambivalence. It is precisely the problem in the debate that the Minister of Finance has detected a marketing gap with the invention of the zero deficit and is thus selling himself excellent – he will enter history as a zero deficit minister – but the essential questions will be addressed with it. It's just a fog campaign that's running here, and behind the parade of this fog, the zero deficit, you're going through your actions. It becomes a by-condition, there is a restriction of budgetary policy – on economic sense or not one can argue; this has already been carried out here in part – being the main objective in order to be subordinated to all of this. This is, on the one hand, very skillful, but, on the other hand, in the case of a serious budgetary policy, it is quite objectionable how this is handled. Just putting the zero and substituting everything else, that's not a policy, that's a departure from politics! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The decision-making process and the political debate on sensible and non-profit-making economic, budgetary and social policies are no longer left to the politicians. And that's what I'm doing with my next accusation. The impression that clients have more and more influence not only on the privatisation of the ÖIAG or the Federal Forest, but also on the government's policy. – Let’s take the example of taxing the foundation again. It is totally inexplicable for me, and there is also a statement from the government bank, how 2 billion are supposed to come in, because that was estimated. This cannot be true of the tax principles that are now being used in this area. In this context, I would even say that in this one point the principle of budgetary truth has been violated, although otherwise we have to diagnose that the approaches are likely to hold. But let's stick to this point. It was not the unsaid from Carinthia and the "representative of the little men", but Prinzhorn has prevailed. Clients write the politics and the political principles of this government. This is what we need to diagnose, and this is very well done in the area of budgetary and tax policy. Next criticism: the privatisations to deal with the privatisation of the Federal Forests as well. If you specify budget targets in this way, you can calculate that the prices achieved are below those which correspond to the true value. And that is the "first-semester error" in the privatisation that with this process the federal assets are always sold – at least it shows all the reports of the Court of Auditors so far in this direction – under its possible value. You don't need to get upset when someone strapples the term "storved". In my opinion, it is not quite inappropriate in this context. Last point: Ecologisation. - It's completely missing. With some good will we have considered just a few percent ecological orientation in our tax system. And again, exactly zero has been changed, i.e. a zero program in this area. In times when the global greenhouse effect among most serious scientists is regarded as completely undisputed, it is not clear why the government in this area is so preoccupied. Budget and tax policy in particular would have long been appropriate as at least a market-compliant instrument – and this would have to be of interest to colleagues from the ÖVP and the FPÖ. But there is no – and this is persistently refused – the ecologisation of the tax system. In principle, this has nothing to do with more taxes. Of course, other taxes and taxes could be taxed against and taxed back there, so that this could be created neutrally. But when and where do you want to do that? In contrast to previous governments – they have announced at least once in a while, even Lacina; as we know, very little has happened – this government clearly conveys the impression that it wants nothing more to do with all of this. We have a finance minister who promotes the zero deficit – this is almost explained as political erotic – and the real questions of the future remain completely isolated. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If we were to look at the debate from the outside, we would probably be quite surprised at what details we are giving ourselves in between, while great questions remain completely unexplained. That, Mr State Secretary, would be worth a comment: How does the Federal Government imagine the greening of the tax system in the next few years? My suspicion is that there has actually been a 'zero deficit', double: a deficit in this area and zero ideas. Finally, I would just like to mention that the Greens are constantly being blamed – at least also the SPÖ, but this can defend or involve themselves here – for the fact that we would not propose measures to re-establish budgets: That's not true at all. I am really nervous, and I must repeat at this point that the Minister of Finance regularly states that he would have talked to the opposition anyway, but we would not have made any proposals. First, the discussions were different than that this claim that the opposition does not make any proposals could be justified. It was a brief and brief exchange of views. Secondly, it is also incorrect! – Of course, we are willing to introduce our considerations where, for example, expenditure could be reduced on the one hand. And you will not be surprised that, for example, in the area of military expenditure, the Greens have clear ideas as to how billions could be saved in the annual budget, i.e. twenty billion in the legislative period. I don't want to stop for long at the helicopters. It was only particularly striking that the most expensive model was purchased, with the reference to the dubious compensation shops. We already know that. – Mr President of the Court of Auditors, we will get back to work in this area. The compensation shops in the helicopter purchase will not deliver what has now been promised. This is like the Amen in prayer, you can already see it now. And for that, someone will also have the responsibility to bear, in addition to the purchase of the interception hunters. We are committed to abandoning this investment, and that brings 15 to 25 billion schilling, depending on how you want to see it. Next point: Building of housing. – Once, I think, anyone has the courage to say that a system that has almost always existed in this form cannot be left untouched. We can very well imagine that there are restrictions here, even from the conviction that this is an instrument which, through the support structure, as it is set up there, actually favours the middle and upper income levels.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6457	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like She pointed out that the speaking time of 20 minutes is over. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6472	The final sentence is quite simple: The government should no longer hide behind the paravent of the zero deficit and finally make a few statements as to how the budgetary and tax policy can continue in the future. In any case, we are prepared to make our proposals, too, in spite of the persistent statements made by the Minister of Finance, who obviously prefers to focus on his marketing campaign again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6505	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting that against Federal Minister Böhmdorfer will be determined. The right thing is: On the appointment of a Member of the Green Party, the public prosecutor has informed the public prosecutor that the validity of this ad is being checked.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6568	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6590	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The start, as you all know, was difficult. The first response was the rejection by the EU-14. – What a start for the Austrian Federal Government! EU partners' actions were threatening. And how was the domestic reaction? – No undivided rejection of sanctions, as it would have been expected, but the role of SPÖ has not been clarified to date. I would not like to quote my opinion on this today, but rather an assessment of an uninvolved observer, namely from the "New Zurich Newspaper". It says: If the SPÖ were satisfy in the basic democratic course, it would have reflexibly rejected the measures of the EU-14, unless it had staged them with it. It would immediately have recognized that this is more about Europe than Austria. Of course: A real Europe party was never the SPÖ. - Quote. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The sanctions are over, European normality has returned, and I, ladies and gentlemen, can only say: I am happy and happy to be an equivalent partner in the EU again! Since the start, that is not quite ten months, this Federal Government has presented a wealth of reform proposals and its implementation has been addressed in a very unusual hurry for Austria, which probably also surprises the opposition. For example, I would like to say that the organization of the Federal Government was completely changed right at the beginning: Economics and work are now in a place. Work is no longer an inheritance of the union. So far, thanks have not yet been made to God the great unemployment, on the contrary! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Women occupy key areas in this government: the Deputy Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, the Minister for Education, the Minister for Infrastructure and Technology. This is women's policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The first budget of this federal government came after three weeks. Completely different views on deficits in the government budget become visible. It is unsocial, says the Federal Government, to impose the next generation of debt on today's consumption. No new debts on the back of the children, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Social is, says the Federal Chancellor, what creates work. – What a difference! The pension reform is the next major task that deserves this name. The development that is likely to please individuals that they live longer is at last also taken into account, something that has long been recognized by the population, is understood: The early retirement age is raised. Next, the delicate and long-standing issue of forced labour compensation is being addressed and, ladies and gentlemen, is also being done. The long-term protection of minorities has been sought, a state target has been incorporated into the Constitution, and the Topography Regulation for the Federal State of Burgenland has been adopted. The question of social security for artists: 30 years of discussion – a law presented by this Federal Government within a year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the area of justice, important issues are also addressed: common care. In most European countries it is already reality and applicable law. The child's right to both parents is finally established as a norm. A word on privatisation – they have already been discussed in detail today. They have been approached again and again since 1987. I am thinking, for example, of the OMC privatisation, which was the first, and the privatisations in the field of electricity industry; quite successful privatisations. Today and also last Sunday, Mr Gusenbauer criticised Deutsche Telekom's IPO – she is certainly not the most successful privatisation – but he completely conceals the role of his own party in this context. Everything that could be done wrong at the beginning, in preparation, was done wrong, and that was against the resistance of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The history of this privatisation is closely linked to a prominent social-democratic name, namely Viktor Klima – as Minister of Transport, as Minister of Finance and as Federal Chancellor. The separation from the "yellow Post" was carried out too late – against the Council of the ÖVP! The participation with the Telecom Italia, the better entrepreneurship approach, has been taken into account. Ameritech was not taken – this was also negotiated by the competent minister. And: The staffing was ultimately also the responsibility of the then Minister. – This, ladies and gentlemen, is not at all my analysis, but you can do this analysis in the "standard" of 23. Read on November of this year. It is therefore incredible that Mr Gusenbauer is now explaining to us in the "press hour" how properly privatized it should be. This Federal Government has also addressed the delicate issue of social security. It's a delicate subject. It is time to examine the question of oversupply and also of undersupply through this social system. The approach: The richer the country, the more social benefits are distributed!, just don't touch anymore and is obsolete. It simply cannot be distributed, which has not been achieved before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me bring a word to dialogue. Mr Edlinger has said here that the government is refusing dialogue. As far as I could read the newspapers – it was always talked about again and again – there were two events, actually of no width. This federal government has invited all the key forces in this country to a reform dialogue, but the opposition did not come for the first time. This is how the opposition can be dialogueed. Since summer there has been a new goal: no more government debt. – Of course, you can critically question the target and the speed. But when, if not now, is this objective to be pursued? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The economy is good. Unlike Mr Gusenbauer, our forecast for 2001 is comparable to that of Europe and that of Germany of 2.8 percent. The labour market is in good shape. According to forecasts, employment will increase by 0.1 percent in 2001 and 3.1 million people will be self-employed – a new record. The unemployment rate is 3.4 percent, which is also a Europe-wide peak, and only the Netherlands and Luxembourg have a lower rate. There is therefore no other point in starting a turnaround in Austrian financial policy, ladies and gentlemen. The SPÖ continues to continue the destruction of the Austrian budget situation unbroken to my great surprise and disaster. So I read in her homepage that she says: "Our public debt is not higher or lower than most other industrialized countries. Austria's state finances are not a rehabilitation case." - Quote. It is therefore simply disputed by the SPÖ that Austria is one of the final lights of the EU in public debt. This is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen. The Austrian budget is burdened with interest payments of almost 100 billion schilling – money spent in the past, ladies and gentlemen. And the SPÖ's objective is obviously that the annual interest rate burden continues to rise and that this will continue to be paid for the past in the future. What this Federal Government wants is to gain scope for action for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And for this, ladies and gentlemen, you deserve our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6766	The next speaker is Mr Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6787	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! When Federal Chancellor Schüssel spoke, I thought: Hopefully, he says something about his statements about Austria as a Nazi victim. He has done so, but I think he has a chance to do so: instead of a clarifying political word, historical representations came, and even these were questionable in the focus. One cannot limit oneself to the last 48 hours on the question of entry and history. What about yielding to the German demands for government reform? What about the Berchtesgaden agreement? What about the years 1933 and 1934, which belong to it, and the elimination of democracy in Austria? That on the anniversary of the Reichspogromnacht you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, speak as a Nazi victim in an interview with an Israeli newspaper on Austria, must give the impression of the beauty and the concealment of the role of the perpetrator – and not only of the victims – even if it was not your intention – and I believe it. This statement was a serious political mistake, whatever you may historically, state-law for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The current problem – Herbert Langsner has put it to the forme in the "FORMAT" – is: "If you want to sell yourself in the Western world as an ideological prellbock against Haider and his sage, you have to deal with this subject more sensitively. But now the argument that any NS-sympathy unwarranted bowl would hold out the relevant ideas of the FPÖ from the European Union is no longer being trusted. If the chancellor did not consciously place his statement in such a way – and this is not explicitly subordinated here – he would have entered the fat cap. The damage is done." Federal Chancellor! Their words today were not clear words. In the interests of our country, I ask you: Find a clear clear word about your statement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Back to budget: The Chapter Top Institutions also includes expenditure on Parliament. So far, these have been agreed – for the first time not this time, more precisely: They have also been agreed this time, but have been amended by the government coalition with an amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you expect – probably rightly – that the public pity for cuts will be limited to the field of Parliament, and argue on the popular wave: All over the world, that is to say, Parliament! And indeed: In view of the financial constraints, the social disadvantages and the injustices that the poorer people in our country, in particular, have to accept through this government coalition, of course, all restrictions on the organs of our state fade away. It is not so much the fact that these restrictions are in the House itself, but the method, proportionality, focus and accompanying music that makes it necessary to discuss the democratic aspects of this so-called fiscal measure. First: You compare the Parliament budget with the overall budget in your argument – you did it in the Committee. – But: Parliament as the place of legislation and access of all the parties elected – and therefore the opposition – to politics cannot be compared with the overall administration. The appropriate comparison would be the comparison with the cabinets, with the posts of the members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! Parliament calls for you to save – with staff, with costs, with expenditure – but in the appropriate political area, in the cabinets of the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor and the Minister, the expenditure increases, there you get additional staff. In the political areas of the state, you spend more where the opposition is active, but you want to save – and we do not think that is fair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Secondly, They are always drawing international budget comparisons. Why do it? You don't want to do that with Parliament? . When you look at how we are among the two chamber parliaments, it turns out that the Austrian Parliament is one of the most cost-effective in Europe. Why mention You don't, why don't you take this into account? Thirdly, They cut apart, and one has to suspect method; for example, in the budget of the International Service – here I know very well. Shorten with your application They are mainly concerned about the work of Austrian representatives in international and European parliamentary organizations, they are cutting short in their contacts, and less among the friendship groups. So: Where the opposition is located abroad in bodies, can be counterweight to the attitude of the Federal Government, and where it is about non-binding good will travel, leave the money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] – That’s very striking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Fourth: They want – and that sounds good – to reduce the flood of paper. - Great! Let's do everything electronically! I'm for that, I've learned, it wasn't that easy, but let's do it! – But: They only want to reduce the flood of paper, what we need to be able to do electronically, namely the connections – here in the hall there are two – which each one needs, however, are not available. There are no ports for laptops in the committee venues, there is no access from every point of view to the intranet of the Parliamentary Directorate. I am sure you could save in this area in the long term, but only if you invest in technical equipment in the medium term to give Members the other possibilities. If you just stop the paper flood, you'll help those who get the information from the ministries again and damage the opposition. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] It's like this: Where the government is concerned, the money is available. In the 2001 Federal estimates, 50 million Schilling for government propaganda are planned for the Federal Press Service under the beautifying term "overarching information work". The ads made by the government in the last few days deliberately contain false figures on the way to budget consolidation and the burden on the Austrian population. It is unbearable that a further 50 million schillings will be spent next year after 34 million schillings for the continuation of this targeted disinformation policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude: As a accompanying music to the parliamentary cuts there was much more to hear. It was said that a cost-setting bill for parliamentary work should be introduced – no, it was another President – that parliamentary bodies should be privatized. [[Inter-call]] [[Abg. Young: The vernissages reduce, the book presentations, the relevant!]] Sure, you should know how much things cost, but it will be really good that you discuss whether a urgent request costs too much that you hold the opposition, that the request has cost too much, that you discuss what the disabled in Parliament are costing, et cetera. As far as privatisation is concerned, there is almost a temptation to write a satire on these proposals. The result would certainly be to laugh, if it were not, as much as in this budget, actually to howl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6929	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e6950	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let me ask you a few questions to explain once again why we are going this way, which are the reasons for consolidating our budget; Questions that all of us are being asked again and again in various political debates. Ladies and gentlemen! The first question: If we want a strong economic location, we want sustainable growth, do we want full order books of our companies in Austria? – If we want to do so – we all will probably say yes to this question – then we also need to see that there is a need for rehabilitated state finances. Next question: Do we want full employment in our country? - Everyone, if he's honest, will say: Of course we want full employment! And for this to happen, we also need rehabilitated state finances. If we want to improve Austria's creditworthiness, do we want to achieve lower interest rates for the state, for the economy, for consumers? – Everyone will say: Yes, of course, that's what we want! And for this to happen, we need to know that – and we need to know that – of rehabilitated state finances. Another question: If we want to live on our relations, if we want to pursue a non-social policy at the expense of our children and grandchildren, do we want to hand over this country with mortgages to the next generation? – Everyone in this house will probably say: No, we don't! And for this to happen, we also need rehabilitated state finances. The next question: Do we want a room for action for action for the future of this country – for education, for training, for research and development, for a discharge in the future? – Everyone will say: Yeah, that's what we want. And that's what it says: For this to happen, we need rehabilitated state finances! These are the reasons why we have a goal for the first time for many, many years – you have to let it break on the tongue: have a goal! – in our country's financial policy, which is a reasonable policy: do not spend more than you take! We say: No more debt, we'll fix state finances! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why I very much welcome it, as the debate has taken place here in the House today and also in the last few weeks, because, above all, the opposition, and especially the social democracy, clearly says: We want to continue as before, but no change! Debts and mortgages, this is obviously the world of social democracy, in conjunction with the statement: We're going down a gang. It adheres to the motto: It is also a little slower, we are orientationd at the last, we want to argue with Germany in 2004 about who is the final light in the European Union. I am grateful that you are holding the debate this way, because this makes us different, ladies and gentlemen. We want to be successful now, we want to renovate now so that in 2004 we have a perspective for this country. We now want to launch a sustainable financial policy. We do not want to pay more and more for the past, for the debts and old burdens of the past, but we want to have more money available for the future, for the education, for the education of the next generations and thus to build a modern state. That's the difference, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] A point that was always important to us and also stands for a modern state is the rehabilitation of state finances with enormous social tolerance. I can read to you what Professor Kofler, Board of Directors of the Institute of Financial Sciences and Taxation of the University of Klagenfurt, says in an examination of our method of consolidation – two points –: First: The less the citizens are affected by consolidation, the more elegant and professional the renovation is. This is to be measured by the quality and quality of consolidation. He concluded in his investigation: If 75.1 billion schilling is not or is not subordinate to taxpayers or citizens by a total consolidation of 100.6 billion schilling, this is an excellent consolidation rate and quality of consolidation in the international comparison. – This is what Professor Kofler of the University of Klagenfurt says. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank you very much for the confirmation by my predecessor, Mr Edlinger, who has already said: There is a sustainable discharge of the lower income of 5.5 billion schilling. He confirms this for the first time – otherwise I hear and read only that we burden everything and everyone in this country, but now you have also made it clear: Despite a consolidation course in this country, there is 5.5 billion schilling more for the lower incomes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] – With all the examples we brought. To name one of them The man deserves 26 000 S gross per month, the woman 18 000 S grossto, a child under ten years of age. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: For the twentieth time you say it wrong!]] This family has 6 320 S net more in the wallet compared to 1999 – the old federal government, in your time – in 2001 – all the measures, new federal government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the social manuscript of this Austrian Federal Government. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Your party voted against!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The truth hurts!]] – It always hurts when one hears how social something is possible, but in the past it has never succeeded in achieving a similar quality of consolidation. If one speaks of "social horrors" in this context, I have to say: Ladies and gentlemen! We are going this way so that we can continue to spend 725 billion schilling on social expenditure so that we can secure it in the future so that we can pay the family benefits, the benefits of unemployment insurance, the benefits in the care sector so that we can continue to pay the pensions in this country – 725 billion schilling! We are going this way so that this is still possible. We are wisely dealing with the money of our taxpayers, because we are taking a course which clearly reduces the expenditure ratio of our country. We are taking a course that does not lead to record values at the tax and tax rate, as honourable Member Edlinger has said. You know – I have told you several times – that the Commission's forecast of the European Union states: 44.7% in 1999 tax and tax ratio, 44.4 percent in 2002. That means that the record in the tax and tax rate will be reserved to you. We will be able to continue to reduce the tax rate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Let's talk in three months!]] Since today we have been asked what we are doing in terms of research and development for the next generations, I would like to say, also in response to Professor Van der Bellen: Research expenditure increases from 49 billion Schilling to 60 billion Schilling in 2000. So much money has never been available for research in a household of our country. Expenditure on education, culture, science – not only to quote science, as Professor Van der Bellen did – is rising from 103 billion Schilling in 1999 to 109 billion Schilling in 2001, as we have said. Active labour market policy: from 8.8 billion schilling to 10.1 billion schilling. This, of course, involves a programme to combat poverty in Austria, because we are convinced that it is the best way to integrate the labour market, to give people employment. This prevents poverty from being the most effective. Moreover, if public investment in Austria succeeds, from 31 billion Schilling to 36 billion Schilling next year, almost 20 percent more in public investment, then this is an important employment impulse, and you will see that the consolidation path of this Austrian government will lead to more employment and less unemployment and full employment will continue in this legislative period. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If such consolidation is successful, it can also be reconciled with substantial social policy initiatives, such as child benefit, and we are not at the end of the day, but in the absolute top of Europe, and we have this child allowance with 1. In January 2002, we will introduce, then, the importance we give to the family and to the multi-child households in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again – and this has always been the attempt we have made, and therefore, contrary to my predecessors, I have been looking for talks with Social Democracy, I have also been looking for talks with the Green Group – I say clearly: We are concerned with the greatest possible consensus in financial policy and economic policy. This is a huge responsibility that we have for the future of our country. We want to shape the future. We want to change the structures in our country. We want to build a modern Austria and invite you on this path very cordially to go along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7103	I declare that the honourable Member's Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades, tabled a motion for an amendment before this House, which is sufficiently supported and which is therefore part of the negotiations. [[Abg. Bures: ( towards the government bank) This speech was very monotonous!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: For the tenth time the same speech! Always the same stands!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That hurts you if it's positive!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The problems you left us have remained the same!]] The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7179	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! The aim of the new Federal Government is a balanced budget. In the foreseeable future – we have just heard it – the zero deficit is to be achieved. As we all know, the starting point is very difficult. In order to achieve a government debt of unimaginable 2,000 billion schillings, 250 billion of interest and debt reduction have to be spent annually. This significantly reduces the scope for action of the Minister of Finance and the Federal Government. If you put the debt burden on the population, this will result in a per capita debt of more than 217,000 S from the infant to the pensioner. 250 billion schilling, which is the sum of interest and old debt every year. This is to illustrate the scale, more than the educational expenditure, more than the infrastructure measures and the entire social budget of the federal government. That is, anyone who does not want to continue the irresponsible budgetary policy of the past years and decades must save and deal responsibly and responsibly with taxpayers' money. In order to achieve a more debt-free future in all areas of the budget, including the top institutions, the federal legislation, the presidency office, the Constitutional and Administrative Courts, the public prosecutor's office and the Court of Auditors. It would be totally incomprehensible for the people if there were savings throughout the state budget, but Parliament, that is, the National Council and the Federal Council, or the presidency's office would not be affected in any way. It must also be clear to the President of the Federal Republic that new representative Presidential villas are being rejected by the population as well as costly prestige objects such as those of the Linz Opera, to which the Upper Austrians gave a clear rejection last Sunday. [[Abg. Silhavy: The modern state!]] The fact that no one with the exception of the opposition deliberately misinterprets as chaotic savings is obvious. And you can't make it as easy as Klubobmann Kostelka did in the Committee, which, in view of the costs of federal legislation in the Budget Committee, seemed to have asked – only apparently – naively: What is democracy worth? Democracy, Mr Klubobmann, is worth just as much to us, no less valuable than you. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Obviously not!]] But economical and effective, these are terms that do not necessarily contradict each other, which do not exclude each other. One can quite trust the population that it understands interrelationships. Just as the majority of Austrians support government austerity, there have also been clear decisions in Switzerland on the weekend in the event of a referendum which proves the democratic maturity of the Swiss people very strongly. 67 percent of the Swiss voting population supported a Federal Staff Act providing for the abolition of official status. On the other hand, an initiative was rejected to provide for a pension scheme from 62 onwards. ==References====External links== Nor has there been any success in providing for a reduction in military expenditure, which would have led to a significant weakening of the Swiss state defense. Now a few remarks about the public prosecutorship, which is inconspicuous and rather unthankful of their work. The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which was presented for the 1999 calendar year, was truly impressive: 9 186 people have turned to the three prosecutors. Nearly 4,000 examination procedures have been initiated during this period. A total of 4,675 examination procedures could be completed. Only in 2 328 cases could no reason be found for complaints. As in the past few years, the well-known subject of legislative suggestions has been discussed, resulting from the work of the Volksanstalts. The right of initiation of the Volksanwälte on its own legislative proposals, which has long been desired, has once again been repeated. Together, the Volksanwälten stressed that they were concerned about privatisations and disseminations, because without any specific audit mandate, according to the Volksanwälte, unless it was difficult to act independently. The process described as "Austrian solution", which, although the public prosecutor's office is no longer responsible in the privatized field, is still in the interest of the citizens, is certainly unsatisfactory. Here, the legislator is likely to need action. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the administration and the necessary reforms in this area. In Austria, 22.4 percent of public employees are employed. On the other hand, the EU average is only 17.6 percent, in the Federal Republic of Germany 16 percent, in Switzerland 12 percent and in the USA only 9 percent. There is no chaos or lawlessness in the administrations of Switzerland or the Federal Republic of Germany, as we all know. We in Austria too will need to adapt to international developments. It is important to quickly find control models that lead to a slimmer and more efficient management. The non-retirement of 11 000 posts over the next few years is a first step in the right direction, but it will be complemented by a comprehensive administrative reform, which will also be initiated by this new government. Ladies and gentlemen! The field of the top organs was largely of consensus in the Committee. Here, too, in plenary, please give your consent to this draft budget by the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7230	Mr Ddr. has made an actual correction. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7255	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In his statement, the Federal Minister for Finance said: We will introduce child allowances so that we do not end up in Europe. – Minister of State! This representation is incorrect! In family policy and in the services for children, Austria is not a final destination, but is at the top of the European countries. And until now, the measures taken by the WendeGovernment are rather aimed at worsening family benefits – see, for example, the tuition fees.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7288	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7333	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen are not present at the moment, but the President of the People's Procuratorate. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! Let me, ladies and gentlemen, first say something that is important to me. Above all, it is important to me that it should perhaps be heard by the Federal Minister for Finance, because money governs the world, and he is lord over the essential resources. It is only briefly mentioned, but that is why it is no less important, namely the question of funding for Austrian ethnic groups, so-called autochthone groups, Mr Bundesminister. This appropriation is intended to be reduced. Now you could say that everything is shortened, and everywhere is saved... [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Don't get cut!]] But, Minister, they will not be shortened! – If everything remains as it is, and if there is inflation and the money no longer becomes, then it is de facto less, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You almost don't have to be able to count on that to understand it. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] He whispers from behind me. With regard to these extraordinary 55 million Carinthias, the so-called vote donation, the following applies: I do not know, Minister, whether you were there at the time when we discussed this so-called donation of vote here and where I have found – because you were obviously not there, I would like to tell you again now: I am absolutely not injuring the poor Carinthians – poor in the truest sense of the word, because there are areas that are structurally so disadvantaged that they really need support – I absolutely do not envy them, as I said. But what I criticise is that you are now coming to us, because I am talking about popular support, with the vote donation. What do the votes and the promotion of structurally weak areas, including in Carinthia, have to do with popular promotion issues? – Nothing at all, Minister of State, at all! [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: A good part of the vote donation goes to the ethnic groups!]] But if you give me the Carinthian keywords, I would like to tell you what the reality of popular affairs in this country looks like with regard to Carinthia. A little bit I know about Carinthia, even though I don't come from there because I've been dealing with it for a long time. In his statements, the Federal Chancellor once again – every time he does so; Mr. Klubobmann Khol, of course, also mentions: We have given the groups a constitution! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, you have given them a constitutional provision, but the rights cut them where it goes. Just one example: Now, although the country's linguistic and cultural diversity has recently been enshrined in the federal constitution, the federal law has not yet been dry when the head of state of Carinthia, who would have to comply with this state objective, immediately came down and put in place a measure that is the absolute opposite of what the Constitutional Court has found in a statement. The definition of the minority school law for Carinthians, which the Greens have called unconstitutional since 1989, after having bilingual education for the first three years in the elementary school and simply no longer in the fourth class because the fourth class is no longer an elementary school, was finally abolished by the Constitutional Court after a lengthy trial – one knows how difficult the procedure is when a single applicant turns to supreme courts. What did the head of state of Carinthia do? – First of all, he made it clear: Hoppla, this does not mean that it will continue with the bilingual qualification of school directors in bilingual schools! This is no longer necessary, because that would mean – and so does everyone who thinks it logically – that a supervisory body, a director – and if it is such a small folk school – with two or three teachers among him, if he wants to fulfil this oversight duty and thus his instructions, at least those qualifications that also qualify for it – in the case of bilinguality. That is no longer the case in Carinthia, Mr Federal Minister, these times are over! But you whisper to me "donor of vote." This is what we see – now I do not say it ironically – in German, with bilinguality, interculturality in this country. To find this connex alone is just abstrus, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister of Finance is not responsible for what the head of state of Carinthia does, namely to disregard Austrian federal constitutional regulations, to deliberately break his course, but he shortens the funding of the groups. It reduces them, but not by 4 per cent or by 8 per cent or by the well-known 10 per cent – no, there will be massive cuts in popular funding next year, when all government budget support for bilingual and multilingual radios – in Burgenland it is a four-language radio – are put on zero, simply away. And that's, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, a quarter of the total population support. If you say that something remains the same, then you can only conclude from it that you do not know what is contained in your own provisions. – This is just a small example of where it goes. A second example, which does not directly have budgetary implications now, but has to do with politics: the Styrian Slovenians. The Styrian Slovenians are embedded as a minority in Article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty. – This is my bridge to the current discussion that the Federal Chancellor has started here today, in connection with the so-called victim role of Austria. – You know – if he knows it, I don’t know, but some know – how the article 7 of the Vienna State Treaty came about. But this German government persistently refuses recognition as a people's group, because recognition also includes political signs that do not exist. They don't exist! There is no great support in the Styria for the ethnic group of the Styrian Slovenians. There's zero! What they have developed in recent years is partly supported by federal funds, for example by the Ministry of Education, and partly by the Slovenians, because they value interculturalism and friendly relations. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. This is only a very small insight into budget reality, as it is now, if you like, from the sphere of specialist speakers. But let me say, ladies and gentlemen, In the end, I would like to make a few comments on a subject that really has a direct and very significant impact on the budget, namely the funds for the so-called reconciliation fund, this 6 billion schilling, which is truly not very small. With great interest and even greater wonder, I read about two weeks ago in the "Kurier" that you are now so happy because you have this 6 billion schilling together. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! You remember: When the Reconciliation Fund Act was adopted unanimously here in the National Council, you were all aware of the fact that this law will not come into force until these 6 billion schillings, which the law provides for, are applied. And I can recall the very credible statement of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Austria, according to which the funds are raised half from the Republic of Austria, from the budget or from the Austrian taxpayers, and half from Austria's economy. Do you know how now – according to "Kurier"; the Federal Chancellor has been silent so far – these funds are being spent? 3.7 of the 6 billion schillings come from the insolvency fund. 3.7 billion schillings are deducted from there. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Carry the entrepreneurs and only the entrepreneurs!]] Do you know what that means if in 2001 only a major insolvency comes to us? That means nothing but to remain in the logic of the current Federal Government, as it has so far set out budgetary measures: The benefits for workers from the insolvency fund will have to be reduced – will have to be shortened! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Head: You can't seriously mean what you're saying!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You have no idea!]] There is no other logic, because do you really believe that the government is going here now and say that we are taking the money from the insolvency fee fund, which is being fed out of employers' contributions to increase the contributions next year, where the economy has promised to reduce the contributions? I don't want to say right now that it makes sense to reduce contributions. So we are now taking funds from this fund to feed on the reconciliation fund. But I'm continuing my list. 2 billion Schilling brings up the Austrian economy. [[Abg. Head: Plus the 3.7! In the Insolvency Fee Fund, only money from the economy!]] 1.5 billion schilling come from the nationalized area. 500 million schilling are the contribution if you want to, the rest of the economy. Does this relationship seem balanced to you? [[Abg. Head: It is generous, very generous!]] 500 million schillings are the direct contribution of the Austrian economy to the 6 billion schilling reconciliation fund, and that, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the discussion about what the Federal Chancellor of the "Jerusalem Post" has called it, Austria's role in connection with the current victim discussion. His words were: "The sovereign state of Austria was literally the first victim of the Nazi regime." [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: And what about the second sentence he said? That's only half the truth!]] If you make up certain fragments from the current discussion, you can find the following picture: Reconciliation funds on the one hand, pensions that are not averse to the small pensioners who have a high age, the so-called late-home returnees, but on the other hand is the very clear and precise demand of the opposition: Let us also state, with our agreement, that it is excluded from the law that war criminals or those suspected of war crimes can come to the benefit of these achievements!, you encounter deaf ears. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This is a very strange understanding!]] This is a second fact, ladies and gentlemen. Now I'm coming back to what just happened on 9. November – this may be a coincidence, but at Federal Chancellor Schüssel I do not believe in coincidences at all – was published in the "Jerusalem Post". [[Abg. Prince: The best Federal Chancellor for 30 years!]] These are such shifts, shifts, where, after almost ten months of government, I no longer wonder, because what can be expected of a right-wing conservative government in politics, which itself is not afraid of telling us the whole truth now – I am speaking with the words of Klobobmann Khol? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Because you underestimated the Federal Chancellor!]] He spoke literally about this today: We oppose the historical truth to the transcribers of history! [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I hear the sentence at the end of the year 2000: We oppose the historical truth to the scribes of history!, then I can tell you that you truly have from the history of Austria in the 20th century. Nothing learned in the century – really nothing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7554	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7575	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Not learned from history, Colleague Stoisits just said: That's what I'm asking: Did not the left chaots who demonstrated in front of the house last week learn anything from history? Or have those colleagues who have supported these violent chaots learned nothing from history? There has already been a lot of talk about democracy today, and we confess that democracy costs money. It costs money to help the democratic rights to break through, and – this is undisputed for us – we will also have a budget for democratic rights here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But is it necessary that the Thursday chaots on the Parliament building have already done a damage of over 400 000 s? On this building alone! I don't want to do anything else in the city that's been damaged. Is it democratic to organise a violent spectacle under the title "Breakfast and Sit-in Against Education and Social Degradation"? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Breakfast" is a dangerous topic for the Federal Chancellor!]] Is it democratic if the left chaots attack parliament officials and hinder them in their work? [[Abg. May. Kogler: The ÖVP shouldn't have so much breakfast!]] And have you not learned anything, my colleagues from the left, because you support such chaots, whether it's financially via the "TAT leaf" or even Ideally, by joining them and showing sympathy? It is a highly questionable concept of democracy if one supports these violent groups and thus deliberately assumes damage. For me, it is an impression that, for the sake of provocation or for a little destabilization, democratic rights are very widely interpreted here and allow for violent chaots. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! However, this federal government will not allow destabilisation. The opposition will not succeed in this destabilisation either, because we are working on the use of democratic rights for and not against democracy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As grossly negligent misinformation and conscious misinformation to the population, I also value the statement of national council presidents Fischer today in the "Kurier" where he believes that the savings measures for the House represent a serious disability in the performance of parliamentary tasks and activities. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is absolutely incorrect, which shows, for example, a brief look at the deposit situation of the House. Under heading 1/02403, Parliament has reserves for the maintenance of more than 100 million schillings. We're saving 8 million schilling right now. It is also true that for "other expenses", such as printing works, paper et cetera, Parliament's management has a further 24.5 million shillings of reserves. Mr. Schieder – he is now no longer in the house – I was already surprised that you have repeatedly pointed out in your speech that these are actually funds for the opposition. What is your understanding of Parliament's management?- Oh, my God! This is not an extended arm of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Similarly, international contacts are not inheritance of SPÖ! I would like to ask Mr Fischer to make a little more effort to stop this unilateral conduct and to balance the budget of Parliament's management with all the political groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to ensure proper conduct, the House has the right to have parliamentary activities carried out properly even if, surprisingly, something is going to happen – i.e. if there is no disability at all – further reserves. The National Council, i.e. this body here, has reserves of 4.7 million Schilling, the Federal Council of Reserves of 1.5 million Schilling, and once again 4 million Schillings are available for joint activities of the entire Parliament. In this context, to talk about "improvement" because we are also making a contribution to the savings package is simply a misinterpretation and – I have to say that quite honestly – I would not have expected a president of the National Council! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am not criticising – and I would like to make this clear – the reserves, which could be acquired through a careful conduct in recent years, but I very much criticize the fact that the President is passing on false information to the public in this regard. We as Parliament decide on our own budget, and it is therefore particularly necessary to show double care. The savings will must also be recognizable with us, we also need to make a contribution to the restructuring course. It is not the responsibility of the House to collect reserves and to allocate reserves again if other means are urgently needed. In addition, the House's behaviour must be so transparent that Parliament's representative activities, in other words, international contacts, can be balanced and not be reserved for a political group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We can easily save at the printing works. As you all know, ladies and gentlemen, we suffocate in paper. In times of the Internet, something can certainly be changed here. We can also save on the conversion of the clubs; here the millions do not necessarily have to be spent in this year or next. We can also save on the rents. For example, a floor is almost empty for members of the EU; they have a different infrastructure. And we can also save on investment in terms of rehabilitation. It is true that the "house on the house" many consider for a very complex restoration, and I believe that this example shows that we need to "stretch" a little with regard to the construction programme. It will be so that this House will not be hindered in its activity, but we will nevertheless show our savings will.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7682	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7703	Mr President. High house! I did not want to go into the rhetorical constant "advertising text" of Mr Finanzminister – he is no longer present – but for the protocol, because it says: If you are silent, I would like to say: The tax reform and the family package have rejected FPÖ here in this House, but the Minister of Finance is always the success of the FPÖ and the government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This tax reform and the family package were decided in the time of the SPÖ/ÖVP government. If the Minister of Finance suffers from a short-term memory – he claims again and again: No one is "damaged" at an income of less than 30 000 S! – then he should consider what he has done in the health field, which he takes away from the unemployed and caregivers on family subsidies. Child benefit – we would then take a top place in this respect in European comparison, he mentions. - That's us! We have taken second place in European comparison through the family package and family support – Mr Niederwieser has already corrected it! Children's money is actually intended to push workers away from the labour market. Women should finally play the traditional role again. You don't raise the karenz money – which you could loosen – to an existing level. No one can live with 6 000 s per month! To do this, relax the limits of service so that mothers and fathers can work properly in good faith. I'm just wondering who'll take care of the kids. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the budget can also be used to determine the image of a government. What picture does this FPÖVP government provide for democratic, women's political and as a service to public servants? – It is alarming to see a German chancellor stand here and talk about the admissibility, the question of the question of the admissibility of demonstrations. Farmers' demonstrations, which have taken place much more often in recent years than those of workers, seem to be legitimate, but demonstrations by workers and women workers must be countered. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: It's about violence!]] In this picture, the reduction of Parliament's resources is also appropriate. This is a lack of democratic understanding of this government and by no means a random or perhaps inconceivable individual measure. The picture also fits 66 to 80 million schillings, which are issued by the government for propaganda. "Information campaign" calls it beautiful to make the burden package tasty for the population to speak beautifully. [[Call the ÖVP: "Euroteam"!]] It also fits in the picture that one is waiting in vain for this item on the agenda, which is now under negotiation, to be discussed by the government's women's policy. Mr Khol here is proud, as is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, that is a woman's policy, because so many women hold leadership positions. – I agree with you that this is a sign outwards, is a signal to women, but only to reduce women’s policy – and this is happening now, because women’s policy remains on track – is too little. What do you do for the "average" women, what do you do for the "little" diligent woman in Austria? – That would be women’s policy, but that remains on the track! In reality, Mr. Khol, women's policy for you – to repeat it – is a "orchiden theme". [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Even if you say it so often, it won't be true!]] It's not worth anything, Mrs Rosemarie Bauer, if you've been standing on your posters, on your strongly female and black posters – that's not an invention from me, that's really on the posters of the ÖVP women –: "Look at me, kid!" – Probably to call for a decent women’s policy. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: You are humorless! You don't understand! You didn't understand!]] But if you continue the current women's policy, it'll probably be faster than we can all believe. "Get out of my sight, kid!" [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All of this fits in the image of the government, which has adopted a successful path of consensus policy and balance of interests that goes towards the Ellbogen society and undermines the welfare state. The fact that this government is no longer seeking to talk to those concerned and their stakeholders is not at all interested in this, especially in social policy, but also especially in dealing with public servants. Since the implementation of the 2000 pension reform, which has brought massive disadvantages to women, particularly in the public sector, it has become increasingly clear that this government is most likely to act behind the back and over the heads of the social partners. Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said in his speech, especially Mrs. Fekter, we supported "left chaots" and we – "You from the left half" – had learned nothing from history. But I have to ask you if you mean the AHS teachers here. Do you think the AHS teachers of your group, the AHS teachers of the Christian Trade Unions Group? President Janchitsch belongs to your group, who have decided a warning strike. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] When Mr. Khol says: We could only make a referendum at the pension – then – because the FSG of the SPÖ has delivered a shot in front of the bug, then, Mr. Khol, I can only say one thing: I took part in the GÖD meetings, and I was also present when your President Neugebauer, your chairman, your chairman, ÖVP member, FCG chairman, voted against the pension reform and took appropriate decisions in the GÖD. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] They have agreed to cooperation. The fact is that draft laws are no longer sent out for review, and if, then, opinions have to be made within three days. Recommendations from the social partners are ignored, discussions are no longer held at all, with the exception of sham negotiations, results and projects hidden by the end of the day. The whole thing, however, is then accompanied by horrors and media polls, so happens during the salary negotiations of the public servants. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor sent the press: First of all, zero wage rounds! In addition, she wanted to delete without replacement: Children's allowance, food allowance, death penalty, travel allowance. That means: If all of this had been saved, then the public officials who had at least achieved a salary increase would have actually financed their salary increase themselves. – This is at all the trick of this federal government, because students will also have to finance their university billions for structural changes of the university itself with the tuition fees, the "student tax". This time, Mrs Vice-Chancellor's announcements of savings were still averted. Only your ads are missing as you turned them on in the "Kurier" a few weeks ago: "Rerule Austria." – In it you have listed all that the population has not been taken away. They have, for example, proudly announced: no intervention in the care allowance, no intervention in the family allowance et cetera! But the next hardships, ladies and gentlemen of the public service, are already pre-programmed, under the covert title – everything is well spoken –: "Introduction of flexible working time models". What does that mean? – In other words, significant deterioration in service hours and remuneration claims, reductions in overtime through annual and quarterly calculation, increase in weekly working time by calculating the lunch break, reduction of the current Sunday and holiday remuneration from 200 percent to 100 percent and, and, [[Secretary of State Dr. Finz: But you signed it!]] This is the handwriting of this government. What does "handwriting" mean? – The heavy hand holding this handle! – Don’t always tell me something that is not quite correct! [[Interlocutory note by State Secretary Dr. Finz.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Anyone who knows this also knows that there is a lot at stake here for women, because no measure has been taken to date to take account of the particular situation of women, especially women with care responsibilities. Rather, the position of women was weakened – from health policy to social policy to pensions and labour law. The picture we have from this government is completed with another point, which is under the following motto: Staff reduction according to lawn mower method! 11 000 planning sites – 11 000! – will be saved by the year 2003. The education sector is supposed to be excluded. It's alleged! – A further deception of this government, because in fact, wage cuts and changes in teaching obligations will also make it possible to save between 8 000 and 10 000 planned jobs in this area. But this is not only at the expense of teachers, especially contract teachers and teaching candidates, but above all at the expense of children. The linear degradation of 11 000 plant sites is not only unrealistic but also unintelligent. Such massive redundancies would only be useful in connection with a accompanying administrative reform and restructuring of the tasks, but of which there is so far no trace. In the clear text, that means: This government is even buying quality losses in public service for its missing ambitious budget targets, and it is particularly worrying that it accepts these quality losses in the field of education. The government has tried to deny and deceive on this point until the last time. It was about budget increases and only about changes in the remuneration of benefits. But that also fits the picture: First of all, it is denied that burdeny measures are planned, then packages are chained, but, of course, behind the backs of those concerned, then a phase of deception and beautiful speech will follow until the population is then overturnedly presented with finished facts. – That, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖVP government, I call a bad democratic style!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7869	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7891	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== A major demonstration of the Parliament building, but also elsewhere in Austria, on December 2, 2000. I hope it won't be like last Thursday, Mrs Mertel. Last Thursday, according to the report of today's "Kronen Zeitung", there was a "night attack on Parliament". A robbery of the red and white-red flag was tried with the aim of cutting out the white strips and thus damaging the insignum of our Republic. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! You should demand a little more respect from your sympathizers for the insignia and the legal order of our Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Make sure that Parliament and its staff are no longer attacked by these chaots in the future! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mertel! Among other things, you mentioned in your statement that the SPÖ government had decided on the tax reform. That's right, Mrs. Mertel, just: The current government is funding this reform and setting the budget deficit to zero. – That’s the difference! They also made comments on the administrative reform. I also believe that we should not let the debate on Advisory Groups I and II pass by without talking about federalism and close-up to citizens. – Two elements to which this Federal Government is very focused, ladies and gentlemen, because the old red and black coalition has accumulated substantial deficits in these areas. There has been a considerable need for action, particularly in relation to the state reform. This Federal Government is addressing this issue. It is not as you say, Mrs. Mertel, that any trace of the administrative reform is missing. Ladies and gentlemen! One important area is the division of national competence. This structural change is under way by this Federal Government. Closed, rounded and problem-oriented areas of competence are to be created there. This will create clear administrative areas and areas of responsibility for the federal, state and local authorities. And a strengthening of the rights of the countries and communities, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, is to be achieved here. Increasing the overall efficiency of all administrative areas with greater proximity to citizens and greater savings must be the objective in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent months, there have been numerous advances by politicians and economic experts who, in centralising the federal structure of the Austrian state, see the solution to the current pressing budgetary and administrative problems. This is just the call for a merger of state governments, for a disbanding of the days of land and for the merger of all the federal states, among other things, to three major regions. Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, this argument is too brief and ignores the real problem of the Austrian administrative structures. It is precisely the countries now in question that have cheaper and more efficient administrative structures than the Federal Government's superfluous central and supervisory administration does. A meaningful reform of the Austrian administration must therefore begin with a reforestation of the structures of the federal administration, including in terms of their efficiency and their need. In order to eliminate the well-known dual and triple competence, first and at the beginning of all measures, the abolition of the cost-intensive indirect management, coupled with a consistent shift of the relevant performance skills to the level of the countries, was recommended. At first and foremost, the key to a sustainable and sustainable reform of the Austrian federal states is not a weakening, but a strengthening of federal structures, the states say. These should and must exercise, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, all the responsibilities for which they are more efficient and more appropriate. In this context, it is important to compare the actual administrative costs of the Austrian federal and regional administrations. In cooperation with other scientists, the Institute of Federalism has presented a study, ladies and gentlemen, which confirms this. The Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and also the Vice-Chancellor have now taken first steps to launch these reforms. In particular, it is about the Commission on Task Reform, which has been meeting for some time under the leadership of Mrs Vice-Chancellor. The purpose of this Commission is to ensure that a task review of all levels of public administration can be carried out soon and that the outcome can be presented. In order to benefit from the enormous potential for savings in the course of this administrative reform, it is necessary to make a genuine state from Austria in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proximity to the citizen. At all events, it will not be possible to tighten and accurately define the division of competence between the federal government and countries. In this context, consideration will also have to be given to the essential tasks of the State. And the aim must be to draw a clear line between the political and entrepreneurship tasks. Ladies and gentlemen! Federalism is therefore an important counterweight to more citizens' proximity and democracy, especially in times of an increasingly centralist European Union. It's worth working for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7967	Next, Mr. State Secretary, Dr. Finz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e7988	Mr President. High house! Mrs Mertel, you claimed that the Federal Government would not negotiate with the social partners. They have shown this, among other things, by the example of the public service. – That does not correspond to the facts! We've got 4 on the 4th. On October 1st, we have negotiated a whole night, and we have reached a salary conclusion which, in particular, brings a significant improvement to the lower income groups, which is above the inflation rate in this area. The conclusion was so good that he was even taken over by the municipality of Vienna, by the union of municipal officials. So good was this payroll! In the course of this degree, flexible working hours were also defined. A government proposal on this flexible working time was agreed. It has been agreed only in addition – and these talks are still to be conducted – that there are industry-specific discussions over the framework time, but flexible working time has been agreed. – This is to be held because there is a written agreement on it. An administrative reform was also agreed. – The Public Service Union also recognises the need for administrative reform and has agreed to cooperate; it has done so in writing. It itself has promised that 11 000 plus 4,000 staff will have to be reduced in annual stages. It has agreed to this and has agreed to participate in order to maintain quality assurance in the public administration. I can give you an example: We will have converted the entire public accounting system into a new software product, SAP, by 2003. This project, which is already running, costs us 600 million schilling and will say in the final development from 2003 onwards and will bring 750 million schilling to savings per year. – One of the most important examples: This is how this Federal Government is implementing an administrative reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The criticism of the previous savings programmes in 1996, which came mainly from the EU, was that these were mainly one-time measures. There were practically cutbacks in expenditure, revenue increases, but there was no sustainability. We are deliberately using administrative reforms so that we can reorganise the budget in a sustainable way, so that the cut-down expenditure or revenue actually remains below this level. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What measures?]] – For example, the changeover to SAP, the introduction of global budget, a presidential reform that is practically equivalent to a merger – the Federal Chancellor has carried out this in his speech today – task critique, and also the use of the "virtual office house", which is why we also need the citizen card criticised by you to carry out the electronic signature in order to be able to issue tax declarations in the online procedure. For example, in the financial sector, we have introduced the project "Finance 2001" in order to be able to make our contribution to an administrative reform. Such comprehensive administrative reform steps, parallel to all departments, to ensure, on the one hand, the reduction of 11 000 staff, but on the other hand, that they respect quality, have never existed in the past. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8035	Mrs Dr Mertel referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8068	Yeah, I like doing it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I'd rather apologize to the liberals! A general excuse!]] – A general excuse for Mrs. Pablo and Mrs. Haller. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finz, State Secretary, said that discussions with the social partners had been held on the finalisation of salary. In October, and on other agreements such as the introduction of flexible working time models. I'm actually correcting: Today, the GÖD strongly calls for the return to the partnership dialogue – a return can only be required if you have left something – and protests against the break of the government. An administrative reform has been adopted. However, this is a prerequisite for the adjustment of structural problems and a task of reducing 11 000 jobs. However, negotiations with the social partners have not yet been conducted – the Secretary of State himself has also said: Talks will be to be held first! –, nevertheless, the personnel is already running. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is not an actual correction!]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is not an actual correction!]] Second: Disbursements. There were no discussions either, but the privatisations are being prepared in all hurry. Constructive conversations have not yet been conducted.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8132	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8153	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Morak, is not here, but I would like to say a few words on the subject of art. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He was there a few minutes ago and he'll be right back!]] - Please? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He'll be right back!]] You have to praise Mr. Morak. He has enforced the law on social security for artists. This is really a step forward. This brings a great deal to an underprivileged group, and I sincerely congratulate him on this law. That was a concern for us too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second area looks less friendly, these are the groups. In the area of ethnic groups, there are certainly many positive things that have happened, such as the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention, the determination of state objectives. All of this has already been said. Mr Klubobmann Khol also partially accused this, although for years he has been more of a braker in this matter, which is the cause of the promotion. In order to promote, one has to say the following: The funds for the group radios such as Radio "Mora" or Radio "Korotan" were reduced by a total of 5 million schilling. In doing so, the proportionality of the whole story is not true. On the other hand, the Federal Government is issuing 84 million schilling for an advertising campaign – 84 million schilling institutionalized speechlessness for an advertising campaign to the budget that will pump after a month – while the groups could send a 24-hour program by 5 million schilling. Or you face this 84 million schilling of the advertising campaign such as film or media art, as the annual budget accounts for 70 million schilling, in the visual arts, architecture, design are the 76 million schilling. If you put this to this advertising campaign in relation, you can see what you could actually do if you wanted it. In general, however, I would like to say something about the budget, namely that you have actually decided on a completely irrational "blood, sweat and tear policy" – and that in economically prosperous times. In fact, the zero deficit you are seeking is a veiling metaphor to enforce their social policy ideas, to re-establish the social state, to de-olidarize it, and to realize your ideas of a backward family policy. The myth of the public debt that these are an unreasonable burden for future generations is not at all true, for what is against dividing the measures and debts for infrastructure, investment, motorways, railways and so on into several generations? If you could have succeeded in introducing a fair taxation of assets and profits at an average European level, we would not really need all your savings packages. The abolition of wealth tax alone has cost the budget 10 billion schilling. This budget is, in fact, in a quite orderly state. Austria's government debt ratio is significantly below the European average at 64.9% of GDP. But in truth, you have gone to the point of fulfilling your coalition partner's election promises, namely, the diligent, discreet and decent little people for their hard work and their ability to "beautifully reward" them. The accident pensioners, the students, the pensioners, the sick, the civilians – this is the "Erotic of the zero deficit", as Mr Van der Bellen said; only: From "Erotics" I can't see anything in this budget! Or to the group of unemployed: the plundering of unemployment insurance for budget recovery by more than 11 billion schilling and the transfer of 3.7 billion schilling from the insolvency fund for the purpose of forced labour compensation. – The plundering of the insolvency fund by 3.7 billion schilling to resolve the forced labour question is, in fact, incredible. It is no wonder that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, with the appropriate sensitivity he has shown, in Jerusalem – and that on the day of the "Reichsklassnacht" – said that Austria was the first victim of National Socialism; the Nazis would have taken it by force. [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Don't let yourself in an area you don't understand!]] The fact that there have been those who have applauded, and those who have resisted, is already known. What does that mean? – Mr Klubobmann Khol went out here and talked about the victims and the perpetrators. So what? – What does this explain about the nature of National Socialism? [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Klubobmann Khol left here, as did Mr. Federal Chancellor, and spoke about Hitler's criminal regime. That's undisputed anyway. The fact that this was a crime against humanity is undisputed. But how about Hitler and his criminal regime? How about those who have democratically legitimated him with that 43 percent? Who were the other perpetrators when we were talking about perpetrators and victims? What does this say about the essence of Austrian National Socialism? – Mr Klubobmann Khol, who is talking about the Constitution and the patriotism of the Constitution, you know exactly what I mean! I consider it at all one of the greatest errors in Austrian history to discuss and reduce the question of National Socialism exclusively from the point of view of the Austrian victim-actor question. Erika Weinzierl, whom I very much appreciate, also spoke of the "Janus head of the culprit and the victimship", that in the meantime nothing has changed in the facts and that, she says, the participation of Austrians in the crimes of the Nazi regime was even more disproportionately accepted than before. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Just quote completely! In the "Small Newspaper" she quotes that Austria was a victim!]] That's true. But what does that explain? – The Austrian gene as an explanation pattern of Eichmann’s or Kaltenbrunn’s actions? The genetic Austrian disposition of Hitler as a pattern of action for national socialist action? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It is really the most historic lie of this Second Republic to reduce the national socialist violence to the question of the Austrian victim and perpetratorry. What does this knowledge bring? What about today's racism? What about today's fascism? What about today's authoritarian regimes? What helps when I discuss the question under the aspect of victim – perpetrator? What does this help for the current knowledge? [[Abg. Boy: That's crazy!]] Only those who deal with their own history can enter into such an inconsistency a coalition as you have entered them, explain this state to normality and then excite themselves abroad and stir chauvinist resentments. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Just like you now!]] That is the truth of this story! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Only those who are so uncaptured as you are can get the unemployed to make atonement for the forced workers. That's the point! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Whoever is as uncaptured as you are, can make the unemployed atoning for the forced workers and plunder the insolvency fund. In reality, that is no longer erotic, but the greatest tastelessness of your budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8306	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8325	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr Posch, it was rather spooky what you have told us about your philosophy of history here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: ( towards SPÖ) This should be a teacher!]] I would like to say to you: Not we, and not even the Federal Chancellor, want to beautify and conceal the role of Austria in some way – on the contrary. We are in no way concerned with presenting Austria in a sacrifice role, it is not about concealing perpetrators or beautifying acts, but it is about not falsifying and reinterpreting history, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let's take it together: Austria was a victim! Austrians were among the victims of National Socialism. But Austrians were of course also among the perpetrators; we also confess this, we are also ashamed of it, and we deeply regret it. This also leads to the recognition of moral responsibility for the Republic of Austria and also for its governments. That is what we stand for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] No one will deny that hundreds of thousands welcomed Hitler's violent invasion. No one will deny that the great majority finally voted – but one month after the entry – for the "connect" of Austria. But let us also note that some 80 000 Austrians were arrested – socialists, Communists, Christian Democrats – and the first political prisoners were sent to Dachau eight days after the invasion as a victim of National Socialism and because of their commitment to a free Austria, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nor do we continue to blame ourselves for the fact that we would never have done anything more than take care of the past, we would never have made restitutions or at least tried to do so; we would not have carried out any restitution of stolen Jewish property! Let's see how the story really was! Let us note that after the war over 136 000 proceedings against Nazis in Austria have occurred, that in more than 28 000 cases, charges were filed that 14 000 charges were made with penalties such as the withdrawal of freedom, the ban on the profession and the loss of the office, that 43 persons were sentenced to death, that 30 judgments were executed, and that some 100 000 officials were suspended by the public service. This too is a historical truth that we should express on this day. Ladies and gentlemen! Seven provision laws regulated the provision of stolen assets. By 1966, more than 42 000 proceedings ended about one third each with comparisons, statutes and withdrawals or rejections. Due to the Code of Victim Care, 7.9 billion schilling was paid to those persecuted politically or racially. Three aid funds – 1956, 1962 and 1976 at the time value of 550, 600 and 440 million Schilling – paid compensation to the victims of National Socialism. 1995: The establishment of the National Fund, which has so far paid more than 27 000 applicants benefits at a total amount of about 1.9 billion schilling. In addition, the current non-regulated issue of housing, which is mainly rental contracts, and also the question of the illegality of the export authorisation of works of art. . All of this will continue to concern us, and we have also provided the equivalent of 150 million dollars in Parliament for such reparation. In view of all of this, we are still talking about the fact that we have never at all been concerned with this issue of reparation! – No, ladies and gentlemen, let us also stick to the historical truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Only now has this government adopted the Reconciliation Fund Act, ladies and gentlemen. We are all trying together to make the former forced workers who have been dragged away, punished, abused and exploited, at least partly, as far as material is at all possible, of reparation, ladies and gentlemen. To sum up, what should be historically undisputed: It is undisputed that Austria has fought against National Socialism as a state until 1938. It is not an Austrian invention, but it is the truth that many thousands of Austrians had to go to the concentration camp because of their resistance to National Socialism. But it is also the fact that many thousands of Austrians bear moral responsibility for the crimes of National Socialism, ladies and gentlemen! But it is also because of our resistance as a state historical fact that the Allies have restored Austria as a free and independent state and made it clear that Austria was the first free country to fall victim to the National Socialists' aggression policy, ladies and gentlemen! It must also be remembered that no European country has supported Austria in the struggle against Hitler – neither in the coup attempt of the National Socialists in 1934 nor in the following years, when Hitler repeatedly tried to involve Austria, and so did 1938. Immediately, I believe, all messages from the various countries in Austria have been converted into consulates. This was a clear sign that Austria was no longer regarded and treated as a sovereign state. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen: Let us stick to the historical truth, and let us not try to capture or hide the common history of party politics! Those who, in dealing with and in working out our history, are outside others and who believe that they have a monopoly on political morality, ladies and gentlemen, are irresponsibly harming democratic values!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8413	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8435	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Kukacka's words have affected me, especially in view of the view he has expressed here and now. It is sad, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the speech by Mr Kukacka in front of me and also the statements of the Federal Chancellor in recent times that those victims, those women and men who were murdered by the Austrofascist Dolphin regime in 1934 can no longer speak to illustrate the history of why Austria was at all a victim. It is already very interesting that this man, the German Chancellor Dolfuss, is still being glorified by the ÖVP, and it is even more interesting that Mr Kukacka mentioned the coup between the Austrofascist regime and the Nazi regime in July 1934, but not the innocent victims who were murdered in February 1934. That's sad enough! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: First victim of National Socialism!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is sad enough that Austria does not give so much courage to stand at least to its history. Those who, after the speeches of the German Chancellor, have read the newspapers – I only refer to the "standard" – who, for example, exactly recorded the events in Graz – who know and read exactly why Austria – under quotation marks – became "sacrifice" of the fascist Hitler regime, and who knows exactly how many Austrians in the soldier of Hitler-fascism committed crimes against humanity, should say: [[Abg. Großruck: The "standard" is very "objective"!]] We must be ashamed that these people were once Austrian! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Federal Chancellor is looking for arguments to distract him from this disastrous budget, he always says that it is his ambitious goal – you have said this even this morning – to prevent debts and not to make any more debts. He not only suffers with regard to the history of memory gaps, he also suffers with regard to the present of memory gaps. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, if you've always been talking about debt, tell me who was actually involved or made these debts! I have here a poster of the SPÖ St. Pölten, which is quite honest about how the debt – I also show it to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – was at the time of the SPÖ government alone and how the debt is now, after your party had shared responsibility in the government until 1999. [[Abg. Großruck: This is very "objective"!]] [[The speaker holds a poster in the height]] They were the driving motor for the debt to increase more and more! That's a fact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! They belong to those... – I may then give you this poster to warn you that the blacks embrace you and then perhaps raise the debt. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Deputies! Please show us the poster too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is not beautifully drawn!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that one or two do not have such a good memory, but that so many in the Austrian People's Party have such a bad memory – especially that man who is the first man in this government, the Chancellor – I think is particularly bad. Ladies and gentlemen! If, on the one hand, the Chancellor is always talking about debt and their reduction to a zero deficit, but on the other hand, he is silent to the biggest political affair in Austria or finds no word to the top coward, this shows that he is not making any statement at all about current events and that the Austrian wurst are his chief concern for him to remain Federal Chancellor. And to do that, he also needs this party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, which has done an excellent job with its employees in recent years, and which has to be acknowledged that its work was not only excellent, but has also helped to identify and make any improvements in this Republic, has demonstrated where the big debtors were at home, for example in the Ministry of Education at the Federal Minister Gehrer. Just one example: the Austrian Gallery. – The Court of Auditors calls for a commercial director to be installed in its report – not yet fulfilled today – because the money simply "runs from it". But not even an answer he's got so far. There's still no commercial director there. The Court of Auditors criticized this. [[Abg. Big Truck: Because we save!]] They want to save people to spend the money on others. [[Abg. Großruck: With more people, nothing will be cheaper!]] In the Austrian galleries not only the money disappears, there have also already disappeared images that have not yet appeared. The Court of Auditors criticises the lack of consolidation targets in the ministry mentioned above. He reports that the controlling didn't work. But please, it was a black ministry. It's not the only one. It was still a lot more angry in the Federal Ministry of Defence. There, too, debts are accelerated. But that does not matter, because the Court of Auditors report is only taken note of, it does not have to be implemented. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The new report of the Court of Auditors states that there are major errors in road construction in Lower Austria. If the responsible Members of the committee request that the head of state of Lower Austria, who is also the national road building representative, also come to the committee and make his statements there, then there is at once a huge black wall where it says: This is not in question at all, but we will not invite the head of state to the committee negotiations. In general, the view about loading people is very different. On the one hand, you want everything immediately and immediately, but on the other hand, the responsible men and women should not appear because there is probably something to hide. That is why the Court of Auditors will have major auditing tasks in the near future. We will have to consider whether the acquisition of the new combat helicopters was necessary or whether it would not have been better to buy helicopters that serve the Austrian people in the event of disasters. [[Abg. Grossruck: No combat helicopters!]] [[Abg. Murauer: No combat helicopters!]] We will look – Mr Edlinger has already talked about the big advertising campaign today – who is throwing out the 64 or 66 million Schilling, Mr Khol, to the window. The population is just being told something. Whether it's true or not, it doesn't matter, but we have money for it. We will have to look at the ministries, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, why, at one time, there is a miraculous increase in section heads, why this apparatus should be so blown up. We will have to look at what the fees for the representation of this federal government look like. I believe that the Court of Auditors will have even more tasks in the near future. This government does not want to understand that it has not been elected as a government. She continues to stand out from the third strongest party, who wanted to go to opposition with her partyobmann Schüssel, if she only becomes the third strongest, and from the second strongest party who have been placed up in this position from 2nd and 3th place. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It poisons you!]] This government, which is wriggling the people, will have to look at the Court of Auditors closely so that expenditure is at least as much as it can actually be done, but that is probably not going to do it. Federal Chancellor! If you have already succeeded in putting the government as the third strongest force in this country with the second strongest party, if you have already succeeded in silence to the biggest political leader in this country, if you have already managed to launch an information campaign to sell something to the Austrians, which is not possible if you have already managed to present Austria in history as we have not experienced it, I ask you as Vienna, because I myself am Vienna, quite honestly: Why have you been silent as a Viennaman when your government partner led the most horrendous humane election campaign in Vienna in 1999 when he opposed the other fellow citizens of this city? Why, Federal Chancellor, are you silent about it when your government partner – it was a few weeks ago at a election opening in the city hall – was mocking other people just because they speak another language just because they are different origins? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Why are you silent about that? Why don't you take a stand and say you're very good for all the people who live in this country!Unknown term type: "%s".?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8638	Next item is the report by Mr Haigermoser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8659	High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! The speeches of social democracy, especially those of Gusenbauer, motivated me and at the same time animated me to grapple in some football quotes. There are statements by famous football players who not only find themselves in sentences but also want to put them today as a headline on the speech of Gusenbauer. Richard Golz, a well-known ball artist, says: "I've never doubted our odds." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The speech of Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, is similar to that of me. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Horst Hrubesch, no unknown, describes the origin of one of his gates as follows: "Mani, banana flanki, I head gate." – I am opposed to it or do something about it: Gusi, banana flank, I'm head-to-head. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's what we had to do about the opposition today. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: From the SPÖ!]] Mr Brix! In this debt-political pingpong game I do not interfere, the old bills you had in the ancient coalition make up your own, that should not be our thing. This poster and taferl show will accompany us for even longer or will accompany you for a long time, because you will have the opposition role for the benefit of the Austrian Republic for a long time, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the budget chapter "Top Institutions". At the outset, I would like to express my appreciation for the work done to the ladies and gentlemen and to the people's attorneys and the Court of Auditors, which is not an exercise of duty, but an honest commitment. A functioning democracy – we have such a democracy in Austria – cannot be imaginable without these two institutions, so every tax schilling is well established. Ladies and gentlemen! These two institutions, accompanied by parliamentary activity, are doing an excellent job. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is true, Mr Gusenbauer, that the reform coalition, the cabinet Schüssel – Riess-Passer, has taken over a financial disaster. That's fact, that's not an evil assumption. Of course, there were also in the ranks of the liberals – we discussed, on the basis of the unqualified comments of Mr Gusenbauer on Sunday, the government formation – voices that asked the question: Should we do this dirty work and begin the legacy of the previous Ural Coalition? – The question was justified. When you enter a coalition, you have to ask yourself this question of Gretchen. The responsibility for our country, the sense of responsibility of the liberals has overcame, and the FPÖ/ÖVP coalition has been formed. That was and is good for this country, ladies and gentlemen! – The expression of this excellent work is the budget presented to us by the Minister of Finance and his State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. We know that under the Social Democratic leadership, the government of that time has all too often lived up to the motto: I had a solution, but it didn't fit the problem! – This statement is true on its own, ladies and gentlemen, because you have only watched each other over the years and in particular the blockade policy of the Social Democrats has led us to do this dirty work now. What didn't we take over? – We took over an inflated bureaucracy, the drinking tax problem was pushed to the long-term bank, we had to solve it in the short term, the research rate was catastrophicly low, and there was a non-social disability policy. Now there is for the first time a "impaired billion", ladies and gentlemen! We also have a transit agreement which you all now regret, which has been negotiated by Mr Klima, who is now trying to solve the car problems in Argentina. This agreement, which has negotiated climate, was to the detriment of Austria. Finally, there is a politicalised banking system – I just call the Praschak tag – and a tax and tax rate of 44.4 percent. In summary, you can say: This is a blockade policy that created the problems mentioned. What would have been the alternative to this democratically elected government, ladies and gentlemen? – A German chancellor Gusenbauer, a Vice Chancellor Van der Bellen, a Finance Minister Edlinger, an Interior Minister Peter Pilz, a Foreign Minister Petrovic. - Good night, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Stop!]] Austria can really give up on such a cabinet! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A nightmare!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That would be a creeping cabinet!]] On the other hand, the goals of the reform coalition are under the leadership of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Riess-Passer. These are: more self-responsibility of citizens, but also more social justice, because the social policy can be part of the mystery cabinet of history, ladies and gentlemen! – As an example, the "advertising billions" have already been mentioned. Of course, I do not hide that the economy in particular has a great sacrifice to make, ladies and gentlemen! This is painful, but hopefully feasible. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Hopefully!]] But if you confess to the economic location of Austria, you must not only signal the willingness, but also practice the implementation and accompany the restructuring project of the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen! We do the good thing about the economy, because we see that the Federal Government is also dealing with hot iron and not turning over problems. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, some common demands must be treated in parallel. A debureaucratisation wave has been launched by the relevant ministers. For example, there is to be an authority for approvals in the case of business start-ups, the flood of statistics has to be reduced, and the reduction of the additional wage costs has to be addressed. – If we are already with the social partners, I do not hide as one who has always strongly criticized the Chamber of Commerce that it has managed to reduce contributions by 30 percent on a voluntary basis. Not everything we wanted has happened, but at least there was a 30 percent relief of contributions. This excellent and good example should also be followed by the Chambers of Workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will monitor you very closely whether you are willing to follow this path, and if not, then the legislator, the democratically elected Parliament in its majority, will have the last word. Ladies and gentlemen! Gusenbauer is in all mouths. [[Abg. Haller: But not in the house anymore!]] Its democratic-political slipper has already been sufficiently discussed today and has also been aptly commented on by Khol and others. The socialist slogan "Gusenbauer must stay!" is fully supported by us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the meantime, they are developing a sect-like policy. The transformation from a Social Democratic Party to a "Sociology sect" that is no longer in the way is obvious, ladies and gentlemen! Sociology, ladies and gentlemen, should actually be the new name of social democracy! Just continue with this sect policy, the voters have already come up with it! They will also have no opportunity in the near future to implement a government project from Van der Bellen, Gusenbauer, Pilz and others. May God prevent this from ever happening in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8821	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e8851	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Haigermoser, your only argument against political dissidents or against other political viewpoints or arguments should only be the sprinkling of a person. [[Abg. Neudeck: You can do that much better! Just don't get upset!]] In my opinion, you have issued a certificate of poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Fekter and Mr Bösch! They have made flattened and despicable all those who defend themselves and take advantage of their right to demonstration. Mrs Fekter! But this shows that people have learned from history, because you, Mrs. Fekter, and your clientele, your interest groups don't volunteer to people in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, but only those who attacked Parliament officials!]] People have learned that from history, and they will continue to defend themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't cry with us like that!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! Power You're nervous? Power You're nervous? I am not yelling at you, I am screaming with Mrs Fekter. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: No, but if someone screams with me!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What else?]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Willingly, you've never done anything. You can pull that quietly into the ridiculous. People have learned this from history, Mrs. Fekter! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Binder! He who screams is wrong!]] Your foreign exchange, Mr Khol, is called Saven. They do nothing but take something away from the people in Austria and give to those who already have. That's your save! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You confirmed me in the same sentence!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Those who shout have the bad arguments!]] On the subject of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, a few facts and figures: Total expenditure is similar to that in 2000, and this also applies to revenue. Staff costs are slightly higher. The actual expenditure will be slightly lower. What is the Court's most immediate task, ladies and gentlemen? . This is clearly the control and audit activity in the sense of economy, efficiency and efficiency, and the review of whether the requirements set by Parliament itself are also complied with. It should be noted, ladies and gentlemen, that many suggestions and proposals for amendments have been received positively and implemented, but that, according to you, Mr President, despite justified and concrete criticism in some areas, no changes have been made. This concerns, for example, the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, in which it will ultimately only show the next activity report whether changes have been made. According to your statement, the Federal Ministry of Defence is still a bit too. A future-oriented procurement plan is still unknown to the Court of Auditors despite many calls. Therefore, the question arises as to how serious and serious the implementation of the test reports is actually carried out by the audited bodies or how things that have been criticized have been improved. Ladies and gentlemen! I still find it empathetic that raw reports are coming to the public and to the media, because after the content of the revision and clarification of various points, the presentation of the criticism and the audit report is completely different. My specific question is, Mr President, whether and in what way the Court of Auditors is finally getting to grips with this. So there is still a lot of work ahead of you, including with regard to upcoming activities. The Court of Auditors' assessment and opinion on the sale of UMTS' licence and the very low revenue achieved in relation to other countries will also be extremely interesting, or on the bad course of Deutsche Telekom to the stock exchange or to the sale of 104 000 federal apartments in a night- and-nebulous action or on the planned sale of forest in newspapers from the stock of the Federal Forests and thus on the privatisation of important resources. I very much expect the Court of Auditors to assess these actions. Questions on questions are and remain open, ladies and gentlemen. People in Austria are directly affected by the impact – economic, financial and, in the last episode, personal. The political responsibility of this sale is borne by this government. Mr President. I rely on your seriality, impartiality and objectivity and also on those of your officials, especially from the point of view of a recent study on the distribution effect. Some points of this: Indirect taxes, fees charge the lower income triple twice as high as the above. The savings measures in the context of social security are based on negative redistribution effects. The reductions in the amount of deposits have the same negative effect. Not all year round employees are punished four times by shortening their income. – From this angle you can see your observations, statements and positions. The task of the Court of Auditors is to create clarity, to help light the truth and thereby to create distress and thereby bring about change. Mr President. Good for your work and also for those of your staff!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9034	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9055	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in plenary! I would like to address a few specific points in my speech today that appear to me important and also symptomatic in terms of positive development in the arts sector and what is reflected in the art budget. It is very much appreciated, especially in artists, to give impressions and, by some sides, to be excited as if, on the basis of this government coalition, cultural policy in this state was totally in the arrogance, so it is gladly said. I ask you to remain half objective and to see the facts and developments as they are, and not as you would like them to be able to condemn our art and cultural policy only as restrictive and restorative, because that is not what they are. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A good example of this: I'm referring to today's "Small Newspaper." I call the behavior of Schachner in Graz in relation to the Kunsthaus Graz and its dealings with money. Our idea of an orderly and planned budget and a credible way of dealing with money look different. Ladies and gentlemen! The art budget is not shortened, but kept, even slightly increased. Equally increased and expanded are direct promotions for artists. There are also additional scholarships. – If all of this does not mean that the subject area of art in this country is given a great value, then I really do not know what it is supposed to mean otherwise. But thank God there are also people who are very well aware and honored. For example, I call the head of the literary collecting company Franz-Leo Popp, and I think he may be called competent with fug and law. In any case, he described last week in the National Council the artist social security fund law as a great success. I'm calling for an APA message. In the same breath, this law is rightly referred to as a natural necessity, which is required by the upcoming compulsory insurance for artists. Now, however, I think I am already the second and next step, and these steps are now immediately following – a two-column model on the part of the LVG, which looks so that the fund first pays a grant of 12 000 S for old-age insurance. In addition, the replacement of health insurance contributions, depending on the need, will be 50 to 100 percent by the Social Fund of the LVG, which has now been legally insured for the first time after 25 years. I would like to stress once again: It's a success! What is happening here, whether this may or may not mean the opposition, is a clear orientation to social need, a broad self-management by the artists and the introduction of a dynamic concept of artists, which is interpreted by the artists themselves. It can certainly also be said as a success that it will be possible in the future to make use commitments for two years with a view to longer-term planning. As a result, most of the applications for subsidies could be processed and completed in the first quarter of 2001 if the applications are still filed this year, and this is certainly an appeal and call for action. A multi-annual funding model in the field of art promotion will also be developed, as announced in the Coalition Agreement. In the last place, I'm allowed a swivel on the gallery promotion. Until it succeeds in achieving a tax advantage for private art purchase – that is planned, ladies and gentlemen – it seems that recognition of gallery activity is best ensured if there is a competitive improvement in sales opportunities. Now, six to seven Austrian federal or municipal museums – including Ferdinandeum Innsbruck, Neue Galerie Graz, Neue Galerie Linz, Rupertinum Salzburg, Neue Galerie Wien, Kunsthaus Bregenz and so on – will be selected for an experimental period of two years and will receive a contribution from the federal government for the purchase of contemporary art. This federal contribution must be increased by 30 percent through the respective museum budget of the country. One million schilling is planned per public institution. This will lead to an increase in art purchases, the purchase of contemporary art – I emphasize it again – and thus to a promotion of contemporary artists, who thus receive more attention and can expect more purchases, art purchases. – This is a success, ladies and gentlemen, a success of this government and its work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, it still needs the presence of Austrian galleries at important art fairs. As public support will continue to remain indispensable, synergies with systems of economic promotion and the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs are sought and planned. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to point out once again: If one wants to call this cultural and art policy a restorative or outdated one, then it is really just an arbitrary process and has absolutely nothing to do with reality. A lot has already been achieved, and a lot is being worked on. I name or name it simply and simply as what it is: successful work! To this end, I would particularly like you, Mr State Secretary, but also all of us who are interested in art and cultural work and are committed to it, a great deal of strength and sustainability.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9139	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Plank. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In some areas, there are actually increasing budget figures. That is hardly to be believed in times like this. For example, in the field of staff expenditure for the Court of Auditors, they are not essential, but at least they exist. I see this positively because, as we all know, the work and task of the Court of Auditors are very important. I have confidence in his work because the Court of Auditors repeatedly proves that he can be an important control and, I say, a control element of Austria. The Court of Auditors offers a form of evaluation of our policy, and I believe that Austria also has a right to this evaluation, because the Office of the President of the Court of Auditors is also a job which is not quite poorly taught. The main problem I see is that the evaluation only takes place afterwards, the look is always a long way back, the inventory is a historical one. However, it is also possible to learn from a historical review, if not – as just broke into our minds – a German chancellor deliberately on a certain day, consciously in a particular place and consciously in a certain medium messages that are objectively not only wrong, but which call into question a laborious achievement of a conciliatory commitment to Austria and a slow change of consciousness in the past-loving Austria, if not to annihilate. [[Abg. Großruck: You won't judge that!]] – So far to what you can’t learn from the look back or what you put at risk when you build new voters. However, the Court of Auditors, following its examinations, makes recommendations which would be good at following a federal government – insofar as They have to agree to me, but the government's PR campaigns on their own, their eternally equal leader, they have to repair the damage of the SP government – only the SPÖ government obviously – I can't hear anymore. You're gonna be unheard of for me! [[Abg. Steibl: Because it is the truth! Because it's the truth, you can't hear it anymore!]] – You heard about it, I said, obviously only the SPÖ government. – Let me continue! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As my colleagues have already pointed out, the Court of Auditors is constantly being critically criticised at the ÖVP sites. How does this Federal Government react? – For example, the Federal Ministry of State Defense still lacks the proposed measures; to date, nothing is known, although it has been promised. Another example is the Federal Ministry of Education. Instead of taking in suggestions, improving the organization, as you would call it by the government, it will be saved – but it will be saved in the education of Austrian youth. And that's the real scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, the Austrian gallery has been massively and destructively criticized several times. The success is: We have a new scandal at the neck that takes place in the Austrian Gallery. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Bank Burgenland!]] The poster for the Klimt exhibition advertises with an aristized art object, without any indication of where this picture came from, although it was known how the image changed the owner. The "standard" writes: "Rout art as eye-catching" and quotes among other things Czernin: "Czernin calls the "Dame with hat and federboa" as "symbol image – though in a different sense": As a symbol for dealing with the NS time." – How the pictures match each other and add one to the other under this government! I have not heard a word from the Minister responsible for this scandal. For example, on the occasion of the consultations on the loading of information persons concerning the award of contracts in the Federal Roads and Federal Hogebau FPÖ and ÖVP, very agreed not to load politically responsible – for example, the head of state Pröll. When is this government interested in information? [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] That is why you assume your responsibility there, Mr. Federal Chancellor, where the billing could meet you and your Federal Government – which unfortunately is also the federal government of every Austrian and every Austrian. You'll have plenty of opportunity to answer. The Court of Auditors will also examine you and your policies, and your successor governments will have to repair – for example, your bold attempts to privatize Austria. You do not save, but you are wasting the wealth of the Austrians. As the Court of Auditors has, for example, assessed earlier privatisations, I would like to read to you on the occasion of the privatisation of CA-BV: "In view of the sale decision in favour of Bank Austria, the Court of Auditors notes in summary that the legal sale target has been met. Sales income was in a reasonable proportion to the value of CA-BV." - Quote. Unfortunately, as the current privatisations are once assessed, we have to wait. Last comment: Federal Chancellor! You said today: We have actively and positively accepted the moral obligation. - No, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you don't have that. Where is your moral obligation if you, for example, take away 2 billion schilling from disabled people? – Even if you intend to return them to the disabled, it is immoral, unsocial and unfair.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9275	I am now interrupting discussions on Group I at 3 p.m. so that we can start the negotiation of a urgent request requested at an early stage. Request for urgent procedure by Mr MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management on BSE Soforts (330/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9305	We are going into the consultation of the urgent request. The provisions of § 74a of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. Mrs Dr Petrovic's urgent request 330/A (E) has been duplicated and distributed. Thereby a reading of this text is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9384	The first is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic's speech. Then there is an opinion from the competent member of the government, and then the debate begins. Member of the Commission. Petrovic! You have the word for 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9409	Mr President. Minister for Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Once again it is the occurrence of cases of disease in animals, in people who alert the public and, by the opposition, lead to a debate here in the House. Federal Minister! You know that we have often discussed BSE in Parliament about possible dangers to people. Only the measures put in place by the past government and which are now being discussed are insufficient. Today morning, it was above all the speakers of the Free Government Group who said that the EU was guilty of this failure. On the other hand, if you look at the EU documents, the proposals that exist there, and the great complaint about the delay in the Member States' attitude towards combating disease effectively, you really have to ask the question: Has Austria done everything here in the country and as a member of the EU to prevent or prevent a major threat to consumers? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, the answer is not to the advantage of the Austrian Federal Government. Minister for Agriculture! Unfortunately, we see our fears regarding the elimination of the environment, i.e. the acquisition by the agricultural sector, confirmed. In the debate, a Green Member of the European Parliament expressed the following sentence: "Today are those who claim to have no cases of insanity in their territory, those who do not seek." Leading virologists and virologists confirm to you that we know far too little about this disease, about the duration of the disease, about the possible forms of infection, about the possible forms of an indemnity of the suspected pathogen, than that we could afford to continue to write any potential risks. - That's exactly what happens. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Other national states, which are well estimated from the risk situation similar to Austria, have responded earlier, for example Sweden. In Sweden, which, according to the European Union's opinion, is also classified as Austria as a country where a risk is unlikely but not excluded... unlikely, yes. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: unlikely!]] Are you at a small risk? Do you want to leave that? Do you like the children and consumers? – Thank you for this consumer protection policy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all: How do you, as non-natural scientists, take the safety when leading virologists say today: We don't know!Unknown term type: "%s".? I don't know, either, but I'm pleading to be safe, and number's sure to turn off the risk factors. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In Sweden, so-called fallen animals, i.e. animals which have died from diseases, are no longer to be mixed into feed in the form of animal and bone flour since 1986. And what does the Austrian attitude look like – and this has happened after the re-flaming of the disease –? The Austrian Minister of Health – now she has left her office – wrote an information in the summer of 2000, in which she explains why Austria was on the ground. June 2000 – i.e. half a year ago – in the Veterinary Committee voted against the exclusion of so-called high-risk material in animal feed. It was proposed that skulls including brain and eyes, almonds, spinal cords and certain organs of bovine animals should no longer be destroyed, i.e. in animal feed. – In any case, only a restriction, not a complete ban on the feeding of animal and bone meal. And Austria has voted against this proposal, with the remarkable argument: There's no case with us yet. Why should we destroy this high-risk material, if it perhaps pushes down the animal feed and the meat price a few gross? A few huge cost savings are more important than the health of people, the safety of consumers. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not want to keep you from voting with whom Austria has voted. Austria has voted against this proposal with Finland, Spain and Greece, and Germany has abstained. What do you say, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? Why do you want high-risk stuff in animal feed? Above all, you know as well as I do that Austria is driving meat trade and livestock trade with countries which, after classification by the Commission, are likely to be at risk. That is to say, in the first half of 2000, at present, the largest share of the total imports of live bovine animals of more than 7 000 tonnes has come from Germany. We have imported 6 847 tonnes from a country with likely risk and now with diseases occurring. Where did they go, Mr. Schwarzenberger? Who's got them? How can you guarantee that there is no risk? Or: Beef and veal from Germany: 2 911 tonnes, from the Netherlands: 1 477 tonnes and so on. – All countries with a likely risk potential. Do you think you've destroyed or disposed of this meat here? - Not really. That's what happened to people, that's what came into consumption. How can you now represent the thesis: We've done everything we can do anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? Can Donate You still maintain this claim! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Above all, the situation becomes more difficult with every day you hesitate longer. In principle, there would be no objection to feeding animals that are also meat eaters, including animal products – meat, dairy products, blood products. Only if it is not ensured that they are edible products, that is, meat products, blood products, which would, in principle, be suitable for human nutrition, will allow you to see eyes that dangerous material, infectious material can also come to man over the food chain. I think this is the epitome of responsibility! And that's what the consumers are not sure about. It is not the voices of the critics who have been warning for many years, but your inactivity that is insecure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Greens and I personally have been asking questions about BSE for many years, long before there was an official debate. And it has always played the same thing under the old government and in the new government: First of all, it's just panic, it's consumer uncertainty, a threat to the markets. Then you have to admit the truth a little later under the pressure of reality and the pressure of media reports. It is significant that probably the jubilation message would have been spread in Germany as well: No danger, we are a country with very little risk! That test, where BSE-sick animals have now been discovered, was not a state-ordered test, that was a voluntary test, forced by the behaviour of consumers. In fact, it is the critics and consumers who now believe more of the critical voices that ultimately lead to the introduction of safety tests. That wasn't the governments! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So you can of course participate in this pingpong game within the EU. You can say: Don't happen to us! Who should bear the costs? - Someone else is supposed to wear it. I ask you in every form: What has caused this BSE scandal to date in our country in terms of costs, costs over the need for the EU to kill thousands of animals, to destroy the carcasses, to compensate for agriculture, to collapse markets, and now, as a result, is likely to require the bitter need to introduce far-reaching early tests, as far as possible scientifically possible? All these are costs that would have been avoidable if you had not made the wall from the beginning of an agro-industrial production. It was from the beginning the manuscript of the ÖVP in this government that you have always yielded to the pressure of the great, that is, that They have also consistently acted against small farmers. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's ridiculous!]] They were the ones who cut up the upper stocks without need. They were the ones who prohibited, prohibited and restricted the controls, especially the possibility of mandated animal protection bodies being used. They are responsible for the fact that certain production sites are now hermetically sealed fortresses and that up to the general interns of the ORF are intervened by the highest level of government when it comes to critical reports. Don't hide, cover, just don't talk about it, because that might cause the pressure to change!– That's how your policy has looked in recent years! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We often asked the appropriate Federal Minister, for example after the first occurrence of BSE, last but not least it was Sickl. In the meantime, there were also other scandals, such as a dioxin scandal, which not only landed the flour of destroyed animals in animal feed, but there were also dioxin-loaded residues of old oils, corrupt Margarine et cetera. [[Abg. Auer: Not in Austria!]] No, not in Austria at all! I remind you of thick reports from Styria, but that's not going to happen to you. You don't see it because you don't want to see it. Therefore, you will receive the invoice presented by consumers! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It was the "consumer" company!]] No one says that the scandal in Austria – thank God is not the case – has taken on similar dimensions as in other countries. But do you really want it to come that far? Why brake and delay You still? What causes you to continue to do things together with this agro-industrial lobby and thus also to fall into the back of the small farmers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] ==References====External links== July 2000 – Do you like it? –: "The corresponding preparation of raw materials of animal origin – including the Ended Animals – makes it possible to obtain valuable protein feed." - After bravo! Dead animals, also pets in animal feed! And the minister responsible at the time speaks of "valuable protein feed". I believe that there is a different opinion in the public as well as in critical science. This is a dirt that is being put into the food chain to keep the cost of production low, and the dirt no longer disappears from the food chain! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The EU Commission has presented a proposal to work in accordance with the statements made in the European Parliament on the basis of the model: an integral traceability of foods from the dung fork to the fork and from the stable to the table. Unfortunately, the Austrian Federal Government has not supported such a proposal for transparency as regards animal feed and labelling for consumers. For example, concerns also come from the feed industry, and there is also a green European Member who complains that it seems that the secret interests of the feed industry are more important than protecting the health of the population. Dagmar Roth-Behrendt says it is important to guarantee the protection of intellectual property and the company's own formulations. The control effort is too high and so on. – In other words, the feed industry resists with hands and feet that there must be on each feed bag what has come in, where it comes from, how the percentage composition is, and above all against a guarantee that the carcasses of destroyed animals are not processed into flour. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. Austria is not one of the countries that have the most advanced regulations on consumer protection, animal welfare and transparent declaration. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Don't make Austria so bad!]] Read the documents! The ÖVP now seems to be unable to read again. This is stated in the Commission's documents – you also have them – but it seems to you that it is meat! This is also a clear commitment to the Austrian population. You will also have to answer, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's real fear-making!]] Read the urgent request of the Greens: General ban on feeding animal meal – limited! – until it is clear that only flawless meat, if at all, has entered the animal feed and, of course, only for animals that are not pure plant eaters, thus a declaration. BSE tests, covering the whole, immediately and binding, for all animals over 30 months. With the younger animals a tracking of origin so that you know exactly where the animal and from where the parents came from and what has been registered in these flocks so far. Permanent bases in the field of feed quality and so on. These are actually proposals, where one should almost say to the address of the Greens: These are no-na requests, that's a minimum requirement. I do not understand why this Federal Government so vehemently rejects such a logical programme, which is not covered at all. As I said, I can only explain it now with the representation of lobby interests. Some big cattle in your party seem to have so much power that, as I said, they also lead a chancellor to intervene with the ORF general intern that it is possible that these reports will not come to the public until they are stopped. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: It is no longer fed on cattle since 1990!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you know?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude my remarks, and I fear that a quote from the "Salzburger Nachrichten" by Barbara Morawec: "Unfortunately, the insanity not only seized the cattle" has its authority, for it happens the opposite of what would be necessary to safeguard the interests of consumers in this country. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Read on!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9653	In order to submit an opinion on the subject-matter of the urgent request, Mr Mag. Molterer to speak. The opinion should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9674	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The main principle of the Austrian Federal Government is to ensure safety for consumers first, secondly to ensure the quality of food, thirdly to fight against industrialization of agriculture, and fourthly to promote the labelling of the origin of the products. Ladies and gentlemen! This has prevented a lot of things from happening in other countries. We have kept a lot away from Austria, which is reality in other countries. And I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, also in the light of this discussion, to see that in Austria we have a high level of food safety, quality of our food, and we also need not compare the form of production in European comparison. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the future, too, we must ensure this, also in view of developments in other European countries, including in our neighbouring countries, and above all in view of the uncertainty that has taken place on the part of consumers. Our task is to give security, not to incite uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We want to ensure this level of quality and consumer protection also against the background of threatening economic damage. The Federal Government has therefore put in place a variety of measures. Mrs Petrovic, you know that. Since 1990, long before the BSE discussion has taken place at all, some heads and some countries, Austria has already had the ban on feeding protein feed of animal origin to ruminants. BSE advertising has been compulsory since 1991. Since 1991 there has been a permanent and effective monitoring programme to exclude BSE. For more than ten years, animal body exploitation has been carried out in Austria on the highest standard, which was introduced in the Union only about a year and a half ago. I would also like to say that Austria has always been a net exporter of beef and has actually had a small import relationship. And, of course, we have done everything we can through the Austrian Veterinary Administration – Mr. Haupt will continue to address it – to be at the forefront of import control and the corresponding restrictive measures. I recall, for example, the ban on imports of the United Kingdom, the ban on imports to Switzerland and the existing ban on imports, which we have had against France or Spain. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, all cattle with neurological symptoms and behavioural anomalies with histological methods and for some time also with immunohistochemical methods have been studied. Ladies and gentlemen! This enables me today to say that we have no case of BSE in Austria until now, not because we are not investigating, but I think we have done everything we can to keep this actually dramatic development away from our country as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also our goal in the future to keep this threat from Austria away and to prevent this risk from overcoming Austria. That is why this Federal Government will, next Monday, join the Council of Agriculture Ministers, the Council of the European Union's Special Council of Ministers for Agriculture, in order to ensure that there is a ban on the feeding of animal meal across Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In my view, it is necessary, in particular with regard to the quality of control, to express this prohibition on the basis of the situation. Regardless of this decision, Austria will immediately prepare measures for the implementation of a national ban on Austrian legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, The National Action Plan for the Implementation of the Rapid Tests is in place. It is our common goal to realize the rapid tests as soon as possible. But I also say that we need capacity building. It must be said that we will also do everything we can to make the appropriate work bases, the corresponding capacities available to them as quickly as possible. Thirdly, we will set up a scientific expert body. This consists of Professors Budka, Leibetseder and Lettner, who will accompany us scientifically in all measures. Fourthly, at European level, we will naturally demand that the quality of imported products be checked accordingly, because it would be a contradiction to ban something that is permitted in the case of imported products in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! But this also means that we must demand that when this ban comes, other forms of recycling of this animal meal, i.e. destruction, take place. In other words, it would otherwise pose the risk that we will ultimately ban in Europe in the Union, which will be exported and may be re-imported through meat or other products. But that means that we also need to create these capacities so that we also know a dimension. In Austria it is about 100 000 tonnes which are produced. There is an estimate that you can read in the "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung", ladies and gentlemen, according to which this strategy of ban on the European Union would involve around 42 billion schilling. I mean, this should be said to all those who think very loosely: Everything at once and free as much as possible! This is a programme that will ultimately have to be intensive – and I will be in expectation of this discussion with the Austrian Parliament – with regard to the cost impact, on the one hand, in Europe, on the other, also here in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Fifthly, we will have to clarify in Europe the question of how, when it comes to a ban on feeding, it can be avoided that a protein gap is created, which is closed by increased soya imports. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what a risk this is! It will therefore be necessary to develop strategies for how we in Europe are gradually increasing the supply of protein from European production, so that we can maintain and secure our independence as well. It will be necessary at European level – and this is already happening because we have problems on the market as well – that the relevant intervention measures will actually be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, on behalf of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I will also be briefing the Council of Ministers on the measures to be taken tomorrow – as is the case here in Parliament. This strategy will be used by Austria on 4 May. In December, the Agriculture Special Council held its position. I believe that this strategy has recently led to the evidence that the Austrian Government is doing everything in its power, as it has been, to keep this dramatic problem from Austria away and to do everything possible for the safety of Austrian consumers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9783	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9805	Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you have now said in a great swing a few things that I have let go of on the tongue. I would like to get to the point where you spoke about the occurrence of industrialization in agriculture. If I understand this correctly, I hope you will now use a headpin to confirm this at EU level for the prohibition of feeding animal meals. Is that right? Did I really understand you? ==References====External links== December? [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: If you've been watching – yes!]] – Well, thank you very much, so that’s clear! This is once again a small success of these efforts, which we consider to be very central in the interests of Austrian consumers and also in the interests of Austrian farmers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's clear: We are an export-oriented country in the field of cattle production. We must also act offensively and not defensively at European level, Minister of State. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: As before!]] At the beginning. The credibility of Austria as an eco-land – this is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen, and I assume that there is consensus in this House: that is what we want to be, and that is what we will be – we must implement and prove accordingly by means of measures. This also includes issuing signals at national level. You will not be taken seriously there, Mr Federal Minister, if you are not prepared to implement here in Austria a ban on the use of animal meals – as our request calls for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A feeding ban on animal meals is a command of the hour. The problem is critical. One knows too little about the possibilities of transferring these pathogens and the possibilities for infection. It has now been demonstrated that pigs are basically infectible – certainly only in the laboratory at the moment, but it is not certain that it cannot happen in practice as well. Federal Minister! The production of animal meals in Europe is a major problem. The implementation of all appropriate measures for the proper treatment of these animal wastes, up to the confiscations and the fallen animals, is still not guaranteed in all countries. Import bans on animal meal are not possible. We therefore believe that a European ban on the feeding of animal meal is a very necessary and natural matter. In Austria, there are also problems with pollution at present. Mr. Federal Minister, 1 to 2 per cent of feed samples also produce animal meal residues in supplementary feed for cattle. This is a problem, and it is related to the fact that these animal meals can still be used in other feed processes. This leads to wear and mixing in the processing. We must clarify this, Mr Federal Minister, but not as you have solved it so far, with the decline in feed controls. From 1998 to 1999, there has been a decline of 1,500 controls on 800 controls. Please, this is not a way that will lead to clarification and a solution! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, the following questions should be asked: Where are industrial feed used? Where are mainly low-cost feed materials used? – This is done in the mass animal farming that does not operate under the Austrian environmental programme, the mass animal husbandry produced just outside the ecological framework. You, ladies and gentlemen of this House, have done nothing but prevent industrial agriculture in the context of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Mr Federal Minister, you have raised and not reduced the animal stock limits that are subject to EIA. That is what the Austrian agricultural policy is currently looking like. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the budget proposal we will discuss next week, you have cut short in the field of the biological institutions – those institutions that have been most committed to the ecologicalisation of Austrian agriculture for years – Mr. Federal Minister! This is your policy for ecologicalisation: Reductions in bio-organisations, and 80 million schilling more for the agricultural market Austria, which represents the bureaucracy. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There are billions of gifts according to the SPÖ! The SPÖ speaks of billions of gifts!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's the reality, that's how it looks! We will discuss it sufficiently next week. Let us take a look at what our BSE prevention programme you have addressed is really like! This precautionary programme – how many samples are these annually, Mr. Federal Minister? How many investigations? – 200 to 800 samples a year, with a cattle population of 2 million pieces of cattle! You can't tell me that a test rate of far below 1 permill would be somehow scientifically sound or sufficient. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: And they all die in a year, or what?]] Please, you know very well that the last BSE test in Germany was not carried out on an animal that had already ended! It was a living, healthy animal that has not yet shown symptoms. That's the challenge, Minister of State! We need immediate comprehensive BSE controls, immediately for those animals on which it is verifiable, for those animals older than 30 months. That is about 200 000 to 250 000 cattle in Austria, and that will cost approximately 40 to 60 million schillings, which can be estimated. But what are now 40 to 60 million Schilling, Federal Minister, to secure our exports, our cattle exports, our agricultural agriculture, the safety of consumers and your negotiating position in Brussels? – You are only credible if you really do your homework at home! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have rightly addressed the problem of the alternatives. We don't want to push for it. Of course, we need the replacement of animal meals and we need alternative forms of recycling for animal by-products. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a range of measures to be taken. To this end, the European Commission and the European Parliament have already made good and interesting proposals. These range from processing to fertilisers to processing within biogas plants. That would be a solution, Minister of State! Biogas is a project that you want to promote, and it is also possible to bring these problem materials to a very good recovery, with a successful production of energy. The most important question for agriculture, however, is: How can we promote alternatives? How can we develop agriculture ecologically? – Finally, Your action programme for organic farming! Finally, call your actions that you want to advance ecologisation! Why Promote You do not strengthen the cultivation of protein plants? - Set At European level, you are in favour of beans, peas and soybeans! Of course, this is a dispute at European and WTO level, but this is necessary in the sense of the circular economy. We need these protein feed so that our farmers produce their feed here and we do not import genetically modified feed and poor quality from worldwide production into Austria. Therefore, I repeat our demand so that it is clear: General ban on feeding animal meal at this time! Please put this into a regulation until everything has been examined and all the precautions required by the EU Commission and Parliament are finally sufficiently implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9920	Mrs Pittermann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e9941	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Since 1986, BSE has been known in the European Union. So far, the debate on economic aspects has been in the foreground. Several hundred million were granted to the Austrian farmers in 1996 and 1997 as compensation for economic damage caused by the BSE discussion. However, it is not the economic aspect that has priority, but the health of people. As a doctor, I would like to remind of other diseases, namely the HCV epidemic, caused in the 1970s by the profit maximization of plasma companies, and worldwide, beginning in the 1980s, the threat posed by HIV infection, which was also highly played down. I also remember the infection of many patients with contaminated blood products, because timely warnings were not taken seriously to maximize profits. At the end of the 1980s, in the early 1990s, the threat of BSE followed. The common denominator of these diseases is that economic gains had the priority before human health. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Who were the health ministers?]] In the early days of HIV infection, like now, one did not want to understand the threatening dimension. In order not to narrow the profits of the blood and plasma industries, the danger has been eroded. In the 1980s scrapie diseased or destroyed sheep were processed into feed flour. When the cattle showed similar symptoms, animal meal was not eliminated, nor were the infested flocks destroyed to protect humans. Obviously... [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: In Great Britain!]] Sure in Great Britain, that's it! [[Abg. Auer: But you should say that!]] Apparently, spongiform encephalopathy occurs across the board. The incubation time of this disease is enormously long. Whether calves, pigs or chickens are healthy can only prove tests, since as a result of their short life, the disease does not break out until slaughter. The usual Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease occurs in relation to 1 : 1 million. Therefore, doctors have hardly ever diagnosed this disease, so the diagnosis is still questionable in all cases. Creutzfeldt-Jakob sufferers have similar symptoms to dementia, so misdiagnosis is possible. The first AIDS patients were also often diagnosed by random tests. One believed in a very low risk of disease at the time. The Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in England is mainly affecting younger people. People in poor northern England are more affected than people in richer southern England. Whether this is in different hygiene standards or in the enjoyment of cheaper meat products – for example, cheaper sausage made from separatist meat – is not yet known. At the 1999 International Chemotherapy Congress in Birmingham, I heard an English scientist talk about BSE and play down the problem. He could not convince any of the scientists present. It was significant that the congress participants never ate the rich meat, but only vegetarian. You really didn't believe that. Abroad, iatrogenic Creutzfeldt-Jakob occurred through the use of growth hormones derived from body hypophyses, but also after corneal transplants. In Austria, there was only one iatrogenic case by transplanting Dura mater. This case has also been published. In the relation, the amount of infectious material that triggered the disease was small, but sufficient for triggering a disease. ==References====External links== In October 1999, blood donations were excluded from those who had lived in England for more than half a year in order to avoid any risk of transfusion. The Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases in Austria correspond to the international average. No disease associated with BSE has been diagnosed in Austria so far. It is striking that relatively more Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases come from Vienna and Lower Austria. But that only suggests a better diagnosis. Finally, the diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases is similar to AIDS disease, carinthia, which is hardly due to better health, but rather to poorer diagnostics. Minister for Agriculture! I urge you to ban animal meal immediately and to investigate animals by BSE rapid test – also the German animal was apparently healthy – as well as to provide means for research so that you can see whether animals such as calves, chickens and pigs that are not yet affected are possibly disease carriers. Because of their short service life, they do not suffer. I hope that the EU, which decided to increase 130 percent of beef, will have the same consequence and help for consumers. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They risk the disaster if we do not act quickly. We politicians have our first priority in protecting the health of the population and each one has to eliminate so little risk. Food safety does not allow compromises. It is good that the experts you mention are included in decision-making, as is the Minister of Health and the Minister for Consumer Protection. There's no guarantee that we're a BSE-free country. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The SPÖ has always blamed!]] So far, it has only been so that an BSE case could not be detected. That's always the big difference: whether it's really safe or whether it wasn't detectable until now, whether it's due to lack of diagnostics, or through the long incubation period. But that doesn't mean there's BSE in our country. Federal Minister! We Social Democrats will support you with everything that promotes human health. We call on you to order a feeding ban on animal meal today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10036	The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10057	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Pittermann! You're talking, and we're acting. That is the new quality of this federal government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have long had the opportunity to act, above all in the case of BSE, Mrs Prammer. Nothing happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] BSE is not new, we already have to deal with these things for a long time. But the only thing you did while you were minister was this: They have broken a hormone scandal from the fence that was none and that cost the Austrian population 100 million schilling! That was your "performance." [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Pittermann and Mr Pirklhuber! Unfortunately, God is no longer here, and Mrs. Pittermann, too, is not here in the house. [[Abg. Dr. Pittermann comes out of the first bank series.]] Sorry! – Your demands, exactly your demands, will be met with our request, the government's motion for a resolution. You would only need to listen to Mr Molterer in his remarks. [[Abg. Gradwelt: No!]] You cannot even listen, Mr Gradwelt. You can't even listen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is the result of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Achatz and Dr Rasinger. I really want you to listen at least now so that you have the opportunity to agree! These are exactly the demands you have made here. [[Quoted print version removed]] The first and sixth points are particularly important to me, namely the Austrian seal of quality. We liberals have long called for an end to this consumer deception. Unfortunately, the SPÖ always voted against at the time, even when you, Mrs Prammer, were still Minister for Consumer Protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] You've been excused. Why is this all at once? Why can you change that now? I would like to give an example of this real problem. You see here a piece of veal, on the red-white-red label: [[the speaker presents a piece of packed meat]] Quality meat, Austria, Bruck an der Mur. Then there are the EC number Austria, the Austrian sign. It also says: Calb. In addition, it is written very small: "slaughter in Holland, divided into Austria". Where, do you think this calf grew? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ( towards SPÖ) This is your seal of goodness! That's your work!]] That's really not all right. There the consumer is deceived, and this is also a great damage to our farmers. They have never managed to end this consumer deception. We have made this proposal today, and I hope that it will be implemented as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10219	Mrs Prammer spoke in favour of an actual correction. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10244	Mr President. In her speech, Mrs Achatz said that the previous Minister of Consumer Protection, in my responsibility, would have been to make the seal of quality. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, that's right! You have played a significant part in this, and you have rejected it with the price argument!]] I am right in saying that, as today, the Minister of Economic Affairs was and is responsible on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10294	The next speaker is Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10316	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10331	Mr Auer! Excuse me, I forgot something. I must announce that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Achatz has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. - Excuse me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10358	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the excitement, I have a question: What is most important in difficult and dangerous situations, ladies and gentlemen? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Survive!]] I mean, to keep cool, to do everything to avoid creating further dangers or to aggravate existing danger situations. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Survive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the question of BSE, neither a change nor a change in the agenda nor cheaper parliamentary populism help, but it is crucial that action is taken and that this government and the two government groups prove that action is being taken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you listen like that, then you get the impression that you're just praying, that hopefully something will happen in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is an injunction, an intolerable injunction! Get out of there! Unheard of is how you act! Incredible!]] [[Further ongoing calls to the SPÖ.]] It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that the two ministers responsible take action in this regard and take action. They're both professionals, and they're going to put in place the measures that are necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Don't talk about populism anymore! It's unbearable! Excuse me! That's unheard of!]] The important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is also a manageable, comprehensible production in Austria, and it has been proven and clearly stated that the Austrian farmers produce excellent quality. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Especially addressed to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: There is also a need for a clear commitment by Austrian consumers to Austrian quality, but also to cost-truth, and this is basically positive, which has been held, and for this we would like to thank the Austrian consumer in particular. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also clearly in demand and mandatory to demand – and this is addressed to the Austrian meat and food industry – that only Austrian quality should be used. The need for action in the EU on many issues, I hope, is clear. Ladies and gentlemen! I claim that animal meal produced in Austria would offer absolute safety. If all EU countries had the same standards for animal body exploitation as Austria, then we would not have to deal with this problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It was clearly stated: There is and has not yet been a single BSE case in Austria. Thank God, I'll add. There are targeted investigations in this regard, and since 1990, there has been – and this is particularly important and should be mentioned again – in order to exclude any residual risk, the prohibition of feeding protein feed of animal origin to ruminants. Ladies and gentlemen! Since 1991 there has been permanent monitoring and advertising. So it's already been done in Austria. I would have liked to see the sickering process in the direction of the other EU countries moving faster, namely the process of understanding and setting up measures. Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened so far has been clearly explained by Federal Minister Molterer. What has yet to be done and what will happen has been clearly explained in Mr Achatz's motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will also take more effective action in this area, so as not to pose a risk. Ladies and gentlemen! These two ministers are acting, and I urge you not to light up. There are already massive effects to the detriment of Austrian cattle farmers. Mr Schweitzer told me about his visit to a cattle market yesterday, where the whole of 16 animals sold by 65 were sold, at a catastrophic price. I do not need to add the disastrous effects on the situation of Austrian cattle farmers. Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request made by Mr Petrovic, Mr Pirklhuber, Mrs Freunds, is particularly interesting, as it says in point 4: "Creating sustainable basics in the field of feed quality and animal husbandry" – this is to be signed, of course, but now it comes! – "(in particular by natural feeding and replacement of animal meal by vegetable protein feed). What does that mean in the clear text? – This means the changeover to Soya to an increased extent! But South America is unable to meet the demand for protein feed. This means massive examinations of the effects of genetically modified protein beans from North America. For that I say thank you, we do not need them, so that this is clarified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But it is interesting, Mr Pirklhuber, to say that animal meal is so dangerous: There is a positive list of the acquisition fertilizers for organic farming. This is an EU regulation on products and by-products of animal origin, and it is always being promoted. There may be a sudden use of organic farming as fertilisers of blood flour, chicken flour, corn flour and bone flour. – Yes, look at this!, ladies and gentlemen! But that's interesting: A organic plant can use such fertilizers! What are you saying, Mr Pirklhuber? Is there no danger? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] You shouldn't throw stones when you're sitting in the glass house yourself, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenitsch.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber! Perhaps it would be a good idea if you would vote with your green colleagues in Europe. What did Mr Baringdorf, the green leader of the group, say in charge of the agricultural sector – he should not be quite unknown to you – : "We have not been tempted to say a total ban on animal meal, because then we should have demanded a total ban on meat, because if what can be eaten can no longer be fed to animals, that is not just nonsense but political populism." Ladies and gentlemen! This was said by the Green Group leader in the European Parliament – and we are putting it into practice in the sense of consumer safety, in the sense of Austrian quality. But you should talk to your green colleagues about a serious word! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For us, the most important thing is that the Austrian consumer will continue to have the guarantee that what is produced in Austria comes from manageable productions, namely from farmed family farms, that he can understand how it is produced, and that there are no animal factories in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10508	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10533	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Member of the European Parliament Auer meant here a few minutes ago, the opposition apparently wishes for something to happen in Austria in connection with BSE. [[Abg. Kiss: You could have this impression!]] – That’s basically wrong! Rather, it is true that human health is worth more to us than the lightness and polemics of the government parties towards the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10568	Another corrective step has been taken by Mrs Dr Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10593	Ladies and gentlemen! Member of the European Parliament In his statement, Auer suggested that the Austrian Greens should vote better with the Green Members in the European Parliament, in particular with Graefe zu Baringdorf, and in this respect we have different attitudes. This is incorrect, and I ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to take a look at our request. It takes up exactly the recommendation of the EU Parliament and the European Commission for so long – just so long! – Pronounce a general ban until finally the insanity of feeding of destroyed animals has ended. That means, in the moment in which...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10611	An explanation cannot be added to an actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10629	In any case, our request goes back to that, but it seems to be a problem that you do not want to read or hear requests because you...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10654	Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This does not belong to an actual correction!]] [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Petrovic.]] The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10689	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister in! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mei, that was "white" now!]] He values it, so you have to titulate it correctly. – "belief" and "security" have so far been the key words for me in a discussion that is very much about. Minister Molterer! You have said that 42 billion schilling is at stake, one would no longer feed the animal meal, but instead dispose or destroy it across the EU, as you have formulated. There is a lot at stake, but on the other hand the consumer's confidence is at stake and, above all, – and that's most important to me – the health of the people in Austria, the health of people across Europe and, in total, the health of those who are now afraid. We do not want to be insecure, Mr Minister, but we do share your concern: We want to represent the credibility of Austrian politics, and we also want to stand for security. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Your accusation, Mr Auer, we are inflaming or providing for an escalation or swinging up something which in no way represents a problem, I would like to point out the most decisive. Maybe I'll put something to you now, but I think the word "flame" is a literal quote. We are concerned that, first of all, the tests are really carried out across the board, as far as possible, so that people can weigh themselves in safety, because the problem is, as has already been said, that scientific evidence has not been demonstrated in any way exactly what the trigger is, just how the process is doing. The problem, particularly with tests, is that cattle slaughtered at less than 30 months of age cannot be subjected to this test at all because the protein prion is only on the migration into the brain and cannot be proved in this respect. We therefore have to deal with a problem field to which research must first and foremost be given access, and therefore our request and our plea to research quickly in this direction so that we have the basis for effective action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You yourself have said that we must act immediately and that there must be something to do with policy, even though research has not yet come to a final assessment, and that is why caution should be exercised. I strongly say: In view of this uncertainty, it is necessary to do twice as carefully as possible and not only to carry out enhanced tests, to stimulate and attack enhanced research, but above all to intensify control. In the field of control one has to focus, and especially in Austria we could do even more. The low rate of control of 200 to 800 tests carried out per year is the problem for me as a consumer, given the large number of bovine animals. We have a relatively thin control density, and the control is relatively expensive. I asked myself: In the relevant institution, such control costs to the 2 000 p. For us, it would be important for Austria to invest more strongly in this field as a state, so that the security of Austrian export products is also particularly highlighted and we can virtually double the AMA quality seal. My colleague Achatz has rightly said that there is a problem with the AMA seal. You really do not know where you have been hand-set, because you are generously investing in the percentage of what has been produced in Austria and what is being used in the respective product. Minister! Minister! I therefore urge that we improve the labelling and seal system. You really have to go to work and act here and now and soon in Austria. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, act! Mrs Achatz, you said it had to be done. Do something in this direction! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Achatz: (keeping a document in height) There is the request! I agree, Mrs Colleague. I agree!]] You also have to act on a different level and in another respect. I have already stressed that control is crucial. Minister Molterer, you have a large budget project area called "Bundeslabors". These Federal Laboratories are affected by the disseminating mechanisms and disseminating processes in a slightly further future also the control bodies, according to the Federal Institute for Food Control and also the Federal Institute for Veterinary Control. Minister! I wonder, How can a distributed company, a GesmbH, which is to work under economic conditions, succeeding in additional orders that are constantly in a conflict of interest between the actual tasks on the one hand and the operation of the customer interests, which is economic interests, guarantee a first-class, high-quality control? They saw themselves at the chair of Austrian quality by systematically thinning control. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have had to observe this for a long time in the field of food control. Although not yet distributed, there are bottlenecks, both in the staff and in the quality of the premises as well as overall in the budget resources. And this will get worse when your disseminating project goes over the rounds. Mr Main, as the competent Minister for Social Affairs or Minister for Health, you are also directly affected and have an important word to speak here. As a veterinary physician, you need to know that it is very, very important for Austrian quality and also for the safety of people here that control remains in state, administrative, official hands. The main thing is budgeting and independence. Both of you are beginning to see, and I would particularly like to thank you for the BSE problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, perhaps another purely economic argument. Minister Molterer, you said Austria is an exporter of beef. I am so about in my head that we generate 140 percent of domestic demand, i.e. 40 percent we are expected to export. It is precisely in order to remain in the export business that, I believe, it is urgently necessary for us all to take only possible precautions and precautions. I therefore find it somewhat counterproductive, from an economic point of view, that in the EU, at least in the past few weeks, you have pursued a somewhat individual line, which is a bit beautiful, namely a line that was not in the sense of the consumer, which was not in the sense of safety and which was not, above all, in the sense of Austrian quality production. We must take strict action, we must be almost more papal than the Pope, what is happening to food, so that we can really be regarded as the delicacy store abroad, and that our products have greater sales opportunities, sales opportunities which, if you believe in the present state, you really deserve in general, sales opportunities, which, above all, really deserve the organic products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10783	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10804	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Achatz, ladies and gentlemen, in order that in the future incorrect statements from this speaker's desk may be made from your side, I should like to give you something after my speech. Mrs Achatz, if you would like to give me two seconds of your valued attention! [[Abg. In the bank series, Achatz has a conversation with Members Haller and Dr. Krüger.]] – Then, without her knowing it or listening to it, I will hand over to her a thematic statement and a composition of the alleged hormone scandal, so that Mrs. Achatz, who is not here until yesterday, is informed of the facts and will no longer have to make false claims from the speaker’s desk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Auer! I am allowed to respond to your speech, in which two things have already come to my attention. On the one hand: We've known each other for more than 14 days, and I'm not used to such thin-skinnedness that you've had to get over the style of this discussion that's been going on so far. I had the impression that the discussion was conducted by all sides in a very professional and factual style. Where the great polemic was inside, I didn't hear, please. But it would also be very good for a representative of the government parties to listen to the opposition, too, because, as I may prove during my speech, one can learn something about it. Secondly, Mr Auer: Something in your – my colleague, I also come to you – balance sheet with protein and animal meal feeding should not be entirely combined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] On the one hand, there is the claim that there will be a ban in the future – the Federal Minister has mentioned it from the government bank and announced it – animal meal feeding in Austria, on the second side then suddenly the fear that the protein budget could no longer vote, but at the same time, Mr Auer is also opposed to the import of protein feed. I don't know yet if that's necessary. But the protein beans from America, we don't need them, we don't need anything at all, says Mr Auer. Should we then continue feeding animal meal again? Mr Auer, perhaps you could give me an explanation here, because despite intense listening, I was not able to see where the goal is going. [[Abg. Auer: We don't need genetic engineering!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I am very pleased with your comments, which I believe are more satisfying than the motion for a resolution tabled. In your statements by the Government Bank, you have addressed more specific measures than can be found in the motion for a resolution. The resolution of the coalition groups remains behind your statements, and on the other hand, I find it a bit strange that a motion for a resolution is being tabled here which calls on you to do less or, from me, to do the same thing you have said before. What do we need the motion for a resolution for a resolution? Or is it true that these two coalition parties may not really trust the members of the government who are concerned in this way, so that this is a parliamentary one again? If so, ladies and gentlemen, then this resolution is too little: too little to protect the Austrian population and to deal with this problem. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, you have also talked about confidence-building measures that are absolutely necessary. These confidence-building measures are those in the "Agra-Europe" of 20. will be described in November? I quote literally: "The planned discussion of the ministers on the re-igniting crisis around BSE, which is in the real public interest, will, however, take place behind closed doors." – Are these the confidence-building measures that you have spoken about and that you want to continue? If that is the case, Mr Federal Minister, then this is too little, because trust-building measures should serve to make it clear to consumers on the one hand that they do not have to fear, and on the other hand to provide producers with the opportunity to sell their product. If this is discussed behind closed doors, then, Mr Federal Minister, the impression is that there is something to be hidden. And that can be, please, not trusting. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or are the confidence-building measures, ladies and gentlemen, to see how it can be read in the "profile" of yesterday's day – I quote literally –: "The beef we use comes from Argentina"? This is the indication in the canteen of the EU Council of Ministers building in Brussels, in which EU Agriculture Ministers last week sought a compromise in the BSE dispute." Is this the confidence-building measure, ladies and gentlemen, valued Mr. Federal Minister? Mr Federal Minister, I would like to ask you two more questions. The first question: Together with the then Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Elisabeth Sickl on 14 May. On July 1, a letter was written to David Byrne – Mr Maier has already quoted him today – in which you have a derogation from Austria from the 1st century. requested the removal of the specified risk material from bovine, ovine and caprine animals on October. How can this be reconciled with your statements today, Mr. Federal Minister? Do you distance yourself today from this request that has been made negatively, or do you still insist on this request? The statements made here today, and the motion for a resolution that is soft, are not really worth it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And lastly, Mr. Federal Minister – that was also the reason why we had already updated this topic this morning and wanted to debate it –: You said that we do not need to hide the comparison with European agricultural production. In an area with certainty not: organic farming. But, Mr Federal Minister, in the budget you have made less money for organic farming. Will you make a change in the budget by next week so that this organic farming, which is guaranteed not to be operated with animal meal or other feed, is better supported so that new market opportunities can be opened up to Austrian agriculture and export opportunities for Austrian agriculture are increased? In order to make it easier for you to do the work and to allow us to agree to it, I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices This motion for a resolution is in the interests of the safety of Austrian consumers and of the future of small-structured agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10918	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Dr. Pumberger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e10944	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Members of the Green Group for this urgent request because they are running open doors. This does not apply so much in terms of content, because there are a few things that cannot be taken over by one, but because they have today given rise to the fact that the government parties are also acting. The Federal Minister for Agriculture has already had it in mind, has already deposited it in the EU, and today in BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob policy has really been taken a big step, and I am delighted as one of those who were early fighters, especially. As a doctor, I was very worried when it became known that in Great Britain this deadly disease occurred more and more. In 1994, we have already begun in 1993, together with the then Social Spokesman Head and current Minister of Health, we have already pointed out how dangerous this Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is. [[Complaints with the liberals]] We had seen horrendous pictures on TV from people who were watching, and no doctor could help them anymore. When we took the initiative, we reaped from the Social Democratic Party and also from the Green Hohn and Spott. At the time, I was very shocked that health politicians of the old government party SPÖ – including Health Minister Ettl, the textile trade union Ettl, who was then Minister of Health at the time – have destroyed everything. This was a policy of destruction in the case of BSE, which has not been found throughout Europe. At the time, it was just before the entry into the European Union. You didn't want to touch. On account of import bans, like Mr Gradwelt – where is the colleague Gradwelt? – today. [[Abg. Grad well stands behind the bank lines and lifts both arms to be seen better]] My initiatives back then, they have struck you, because you wanted to go to the EU, because you didn't want to mess it up with anyone, and the Greens, who also wanted to go to the EU. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr Pumberger, then you can agree to our request today!]] I didn't hear anything before I joined. It was quiet, and it was quiet. In England, in Great Britain, 150,000 cattle died, and the suspicions of Creutzfeldt-Jakob diseases doubled from week to week, people died, but the Greens were quiet. [[Abg. Oillinger: Were you in Parliament at the time?]] The Greens were quiet. They wanted to be favourite students. [[Abg. Oillinger: Where do you spend your time? Not in Parliament!]] But they learned to do so. Now they are still in opposition, we are in the EU, they are together with the Socialists in the opposition, now they demand that action be taken here. I'm glad you're thinking a little bit that you're not hiding this whole problem out of pure selfishness. [[Abg. Oils: It would be better for you to be silent!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have already pointed out that people were not observed in the hospital who had a serious suspicion of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. At the time, it was said in the newspapers that the pathologists were just afraid to infect themselves in an observation. At that time, in 1994, the internationally recognized Austrian BSE expert, Creutzfeldt-Jakob expert, was asked Professor Budka: Would you eat beef? – He said: No, no, no, – Two days later, after a brief discussion with the Minister of Health at the time, he said: Of course I'd eat the meat. – So there was also a certain government fidelity of a well-known scientist. In any event, I am pleased that an important step is being taken today in Austria, that more is being done for the safety of consumers and more for the health prevention of the Austrian population. I would like to thank the Ministers for their willingness to implement what is contained in the request of the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11034	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11055	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mrs Petrovic, you said in your speech – and this is what I remember – that the government is just insulting. I would mean – and this is exactly what bothers me in your speech – that you always throw such a kind of nebula by saying that the government is insulting. In fact, you are in a very sensitive subject, because you know very well: Most people don't know exactly what matter is, depend on the information and on the performance as it is brought, and I think you mix skillful suspicion with facts. This creates fear, and fear is known to be a method of creating any change of opinion, but people don't do good service with it. Let's stick to the facts. The facts are as follows: Since 1990 – that is a problem that has not been in place since yesterday – Austria has responded immediately and sustainably. We were the first country to have an animal meal ban on ruminants. We had the strictest measures in the treatment of animal meal, namely heating at 130 degrees over at least 20 minutes. That is to say, at the time – and you were all with us – thank God for taking action. It's not true that BSE has only been known to us since yesterday. If the measures had not been taken, we would already have had an BSE disaster in Austria. The preliminary period for BSE is about five years, i.e. five years of incubation. In other words, since the disease has been known since 1990, there should have been a sharp rise in BSE cases in Austria from 1995 at the latest. Thank God we do not have this because we have the strictest regulations in the EU. And this should be mentioned by the Greens in praise, even if you always think it could happen more. Professor Budka is certainly not in the suspicion of being close to me or anyone else from us, and he is not talking about a dark number. BSE, Mrs Pittermann, is difficult to distinguish from other diseases in the early stages, because it has depressive symptoms. That's what many people have, so they don't have BSE. BSE causes memory disturbance in the early stages. It could be confused with dementia. But you can't confuse it anymore when it comes to motion disorders. People move quite abnormally, and that's why the disease also called Mad-Cow-disease, the disease of the crazy cow. And why will there probably not be such a high number of dark figures in Austria? Budka says it herself: With us, ten times more will be sickened than in Germany, for example. That is, the probability that something is going wrong is much lower in Austria. There has been an investigation commission in England. This has clearly criticized – this has just been published in "Lancet" recently; it is an English magazine, a good journal – that in England the entire BSE scandal was rather destroyed and not treated properly. In this respect, we really have nothing to blame ourselves for. If Mrs Moser says that the government is pursuing a self-evident line, I can only say: Yes, I do! Yes, we have a self-evident line, because we are always behind the consumer's safety, and we have always defended higher standards with regard to the EU. It's an open secret. Everyone knows, the world market wants cheap prices, and cheap prices are often only possible through mass farming. In this regard, Austria has always tried to maintain a high level and ensure high safety. And as a doctor, I can only stress this, because in my opinion, there can be no compromises. If we now demand an animal meal ban, in general, including for all other animals, then because there is no control throughout the EU if a country has a ban and no other country. But we must, I am convinced, give the safety of consumers the greatest priority. If Mrs Petrovic says that the insanity did not only catch the cattle, I must say: If you are insinuating that the Members did not behave properly, I must stress that Austria has responded very well! It has responded, already in 1990, and it will continue to respond, in the sense that we want to continue to be very forward, because we do not want to compromise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11116	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11137	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Allow me to be surprised: If I listen to my previous speakers and listen to their security, then I could believe it will rain down from this roof here soon Nobel Laureates – but I guess we will not have to stretch up the screen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Which also surprises me very much: They criticise us in a polemic way again with the motivating argument. It is said that the farmers are being approached, our food industry is being pursued, Austria is being set to the prangler. But if we are so wrong, why do you give us the right in your request over long distances and try to quickly understand what we have been demanding for days and weeks? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What also surprises me very much: If the argument is that everything should go from the EU, and until then we would have to wait, or that whole tank charges would have to be shipped from Soya to Austria, and that would be taken away from poor South Americans, then I wonder: There are a number of photos of cows who are 20, 30 years old, and at that time, I believe, our cattle are not anorectically torpedoed over pastures, pastures and meadows. I believe that Austria has enough food and protein to feed on its livestock in agriculture, which is rich in protein to the extent necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have said that caution is the mother of the porcelain box, and you should do that already if you are concerned about the government's education focus. But about realities, I think, we don't have to fight for long. I think that none of us – and you have not heard that – have done bad things to farmers who are decent, and no one – at least I – has pleaded for the flat-rate accession to a Republican vegetarian association. What happened? – Rasinger tries to suggest this: 180,000 cattle were slaughtered in the UK on the basis of BSE. – After the word "Austria" seems not to be used with criticism here, I will now always say "UK" and you will then draw your conclusions. BSE was first discovered in 1986. The government has hesitated and made massive mistakes – in the UK. There's no such thing with us. In 1987, the suspicion that BSE is transmitted through the feeding of animal meal has been hardened. The government has objected, and the government has "sorted" the scientific opinions according to the optimistic and the negative-critical. – This too has happened in the UK, of course not with us. The ministry has hesitated over a year. The danger of human beings was impoverished, even when the species exceeded – that is, the infection on other species – was considered to be proven. Preliminary opinions were sold as scientific truth. – This too has happened in the UK, not with us. In the report delivered by the current Lord Philip to the Government of Great Britain, there is a remarkable sentence by the then scientists – I quote: Should our assumptions prove to be wrong, the consequences would have to be described as extremely serious. – End of the quote. That was in the nineties. They already knew everything back then – and "know" everything again today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What happens to me when Professor Budka and others are now quoted and an expert body is to be nominated or nominated: In England, the report mentioned by Lord Philip criticised the selection of experts hand-reading, without evaluation, by various ministries and stakeholders. – I don’t think that should happen in Austria! – And a respected journal – I don’t know if it was “Lancet” – wrote or quoted: Beef is safe, became the mantra of the British government. – I hope that you do not fall into such an autosuggest and go on to impoverish everything and frustrate the dangers! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Who's starved? Budka?]] Yes, you impoverished! I'll tell you why: It is known that all proven tests have a diagnostic gap that can go beyond years. Since most of the cattle slaughtered are slaughtered in youthful years – because the meat is more tasty because we are gourmets; You, perhaps I too, I find it exactly in this diagnostic gap, where symptoms of disease do not manifest themselves in such a way that they can be demonstrated histopathologically with sufficient certainty. We are therefore not an island of the Blessed! We are not a place similar to the quarantine or a sterile unit! There's a dark number even if I don't recognize it. You know that products of infected animals may be in gelatine, for the processing of medicinal products, for the production of vaccinations – gelatine for cakes et cetera... – Yes, this is excluded by law. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] I know, of course, you can rule out everything, but fact is that such a thing is not detectable. We therefore call for a strict ban on feeding animal meal of any kind of farmed animals, but a diagnostic gap remains. We also call for further research to be carried out and for experts to be evaluated according to their qualifications. I don't think that this problem can be solved with home mind alone and with self- praise. That would also be our population... [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Is the Budka bad?- Oh, my God!]] I didn't criticize Professor Budka. But your colleague, the health speaker of the FPÖ, reported that Budka once said he would no longer eat beef, but a week later he said he would eat it. Please! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Two days!]] I think that at least this has been done: a relatively uncritical attitude to the achievements of science and a relative knowledge of the better. It is precipitated that you know something about which scientists cannot even claim that they are safe in this regard. As long as this is not solved, our people deserve to be careful here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What has also been sounded out is a certain one – be not evil for me now because of the expression – rather servile attitude to powerful lobbys. But in turn, you are doing a bad job for everyone. And if you continue to show as little transparency as the British government has done so far – at least at the time – then that is the fear and, ultimately, the suspicions that we should not have to suspend in Austria if there were to be a common reasonable policy here. For good reason, I wish for common effort beyond the party borders – and for good reason not a single entrance of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11264	Mrs Glawischnig spoke on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I will then refer these to the end of this debate from the sixth actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11297	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pumberger has previously said twice that he is pleased with the commitment of the Greens, and he is surprised because, so to speak, this is the case for the first time in this matter. I'm actually correcting this: I don't want you with...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11315	Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! I have to be very careful now, but: If Mr Pumberger is pleased or not, you cannot actually correct that. We only had 2 days to think.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11333	Mr Pumberger said that the Greens would speak on the BSE problem for the first time with this urgent request. I'm correcting: 3rd. March 1994: Question Wabl, 1. June 1994: Question Petrovic, 21. June 1994: Question Petrovic, 27. January 1995: Question Wabl, 28. March 1995: Request Moser, 26. April 1996: Question Haidlmayr, 12. February 1997: Question Citation, 26. February 1997: Request Pollet-Kammerlander, 18. March 1997: Question Wabl, 7. July 1997: Question Petrovic, 18. September 1997: Question Petrovic, 14. July 1999: Question Petrovic, 21. January 2000: Request Moser, 21. January 2000: Question Petrovic and 24. January 2000: Request Moser. I am saving you the requests in detail now. It is only surprising that as a new member of the House, I have to tell an old-fashioned member what has already happened in this causa. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11402	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11423	Mr President. High house! You won't have forgotten that I'm not one of the cattle and pig breeders. But I am one of those who like to eat beef and pigmeat, and I therefore do not understand certain things of today's debate. You eat beef, I eat beef, it eats beef. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I will continue to do so!]] [[Abg. He eats more than you do!]] Why can't we put in a motion for a resolution together, to celebrate? That's something I don't understand. Why can't beef eaters get together in this plenary room and make a joint request? - I just don't understand. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] But we can then meet separately on the basis of the assumptions: the sheep-meat eaters, the pigmeat eaters and the beef eaters. Maybe more will come out. In any case, this procedure is not conclusive to me. I do not think that this is the case either, because we must be interested in the fact that there is confidence in Austrian agricultural production and also in Austrian cattle. We must not only love the cattle, we must also have confidence in them, and only then should they be fed by us. In this order this is to take place, and therefore we are also interested in the consumer bringing the greatest possible confidence. I do not know if any passage comes from what Mr Molterer has said; I suppose that will not be possible because it was relatively detailed. He said today that the neurological constipations of cattle have always been investigated, and then the immunohistochemical examination came. – As trained consumers, they will of course have dealt with immunohistochemical problems in detail! – And he went on to say that at this point we know if there have been BSE cases or not. [[Interference of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer.]] You don't have to put on your worried calls now, I don't want to go into it anyway, whether it's been before or after. I don't suppose there's any interest in hiding that either. This would in principle be inaccurate, and on the example of the British Government and the British agricultural industry, we see how unwise and counterproductive it was. That's not my accusation. However, I am in favour of not only giving consumers pure wine, but also in a language they understand, to communicate what it is all about. Mr Rasinger, who is almost already wearing the white coat here and with the sonorous voice of Dr. Med. calming down on us beef eaters in the plenary room, nothing can change: that we all, I too, have become thoughtful and still ask ourselves the question – especially because of the numerous news in the media – why we have not already responded more thoroughly, earlier and radically. I ask that question. If we only hold the debate on animal meal ban on all animals, only now, after ten years, then I ask myself as a consumer... – Stay sonor, that calms me more. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Hostasch has anyway...! Mertel, Prammer!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Mertel, Prammer, Hostasch!]] I wonder why they did not respond earlier and did not do so earlier, also why they did not set up initiatives in the EU earlier to enforce the ban there. Why didn't you do that? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Minister Hostash has!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] ==References====External links== The following sentence is added to the sentence on August 2000. "Free trade still ranks before consumer protection." – I ask you: Who has ever believed that this is limited in the final effect on the UK? Who could have believed that?- Oh, my God! Or: "profile" writes: "Absolute catastrophe. The Vienna neuropathologist Herbert Budka about new dangers for a Creutzfeldt-Jakob epidemic". And he refers to an entire page for a long time, that this can actually go beyond the sheep. – Who could have believed that this is not possible? It is therefore necessary to be so careful with regard to consumers that they are found here. You, Dr. Rasinger, mentioned this with 130 degrees. Dear Doctor! I looked at the ARD "Morgenjournal" today, among other things, because I am a consumer. The good Mr Funke said a few days ago that 130 degrees, high pressure, no problem. – And now I hear and read, even in the "Morgenjournal", no, you need 1 300 degrees, so that the last tissue cell is really destroyed. This is what ultimately leads to uncertainty: One says 130 degrees, and then everyone comes to it, it's 1 300 degrees. And then today one, no, does not say the sheep, and a few months later another says, but the sheep also. – All of this is an insanity, and in the end, science is a part of it, the politics is blamed and the interest groups who say, of course, that we want to smuggle through as gently as possible so that we can make our profits. I am now going to tell you something more because we are currently discussing the agricultural industry. I was always the one who said: Myth Farmers! I have always said that if the farmers want something, they are as generous as possible, they are so important! And they're important too. But what makes me so mad is the following: I went to a Salzburger Gasthaus and I said I wanted a schnitzel. On that the host says, now you get a real cut from me, I know the Sau personally, from birth to slaughter I have accompanied her. – I tell you, that was the best piece I’ve ever eaten! And you can't take me that easy by just doing that and saying that's the personal seeds you get there. That was really a good schnitzel. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] By the way, today I was annoyed by an extra sausage cream in the cafeteria. We've got to play experimental delegates there, so to speak. Three hours later, I was still "beggar"! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I wonder, Why is that so? Also in beef you can hear: You have to go to this and that branch, and you'd better not go to the other one. Do you know what's bothering me so much during the whole debate? – It is about the abuse of trust and that it ultimately comes so far that health and life expectancy on the issue of nutrition become a social issue. The one who has the money, the one who knows where to buy something for expensive money, has a higher life expectancy than the one who does not know it and trusts in the information on the package. Col. Achatz has set a good example: If he can read badly, he still has to take the glasses – around 368 S from the pharmacy, with a dioptrie – to find out that the animal has been slaughtered in Holland. Minister Molterer and dear agricultural industry here in the hall for which I really have a heart! You could actually do much more to ensure that this trust is really there, so that consumers can also believe in it, in your interest and also in the interests of consumers. And I'm saying something else that you didn't think of at all: also in our interest here. I think there's no one here who doesn't like to live long and healthy too, and I hope you're at least for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11581	The President of the Federal Minister is hereby informed. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11602	Mr President. Mr Molterer. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to continue where Mr Cap has finished: Yes, for me as Minister of Health, it must be a concern in Austria not to make food safety, health and food safety a question of social prosperity or welfare, but to ensure the same access of all layers to a healthy diet and thus to a healthy basis and lifestyle in that state. I can rely on God to say that not only I, but very many of my predecessors have gone a continuous way here, which in Austria, despite all the unknowings that have broken out in the debate today, allows us to say two things without having to leave the ground of science. First: Since 1996, since the Epidemic Act was introduced and it is mandatory to investigate all human diseases in question, no man has yet been harmed by BSE in Austria. Secondly, We can guarantee that in all the studies that we have done up to now, in all quick-test tests, in all studies related to slaughters, samples have not yet been found – you can discuss whether you want to make more samples, more or more – any more. We can also say that since 1990 in Austria, animal body flour has not been fed to plant-eating ruminants. This is generally controlled, with satisfactory control. We can also say clearly about the products from our animal body disposal facilities that we have never participated in the insanity of some European countries, in the wrong place to save, in Austria. For example, we never dropped formaldehyde and took cheaper disinfectants. We've never lowered the temperatures. We have always implemented what was state of the artis at our animal body disposal facilities. Therefore, according to the state of today's science, we are at such a high level that we can feed these products in accordance with science and can therefore also assume that we do not contribute to the continuation of diseases, but, on the contrary, bring products on the market which are of high quality, high-quality controlled and properly prepared. I think it's important to find out. It is also important to tell consumers where Austrian goods came from and that the animals grew up in Austria, were maintained in Austria, were marketed in Austria, were sausaged in Austria and finally placed on the market at the end of this Austrian chain. There are several quality seals that guarantee these criteria in Austria, starting from the organic farmers to the harvest, where one can rely that, according to the current state of science, the best possible products are produced without health, i.e. health, and are not harmful to consumers, so that it can buy or acquire them. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that we are starting from a better basis than our European neighbouring countries. As you, Mrs Petrovic, have criticized negotiations in the Committee on Agriculture and Veterinary at the European Council last week, I can add two things. At a time when we have written on our flags in Austria as a whole, I think that it is only legitimate that Austria – unlike all other European countries since 1990 – has already gone a consistent path to combating BSE in Austria and, therefore, after the qualification of the Scientific Committee, it has achieved a disease-free state, the best possible condition – is treated differently from those European countries that have for a long time left this life-threatening disease, which have simply failed to implement the measures known scientifically since 1988 and have therefore contributed to the spread of the disease in Europe and the death of many people in Europe, or may even contribute to the long incubation period in the future. I therefore believe that our attitude is quite legitimate, from the point of view of Austria, from the tradition of Austria and from the efforts we have made here in Austria, in the National Council and in my predecessors, from Mr Ettl to me, in their role as Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the Austrian balance sheet from the point of view of the Ministry of Health? . You, Mr Professor Grünewald, have mentioned that in addition to food, many other products can be very dangerous, and have mentioned medicines here. I should like to remind you, Professor Grünewald, that in 1990 a BSE working group attended by Professor Budka of the Clinical Institute for Neurology and Professor Dierich, a colleague from the Hygiene sector in Innsbruck, a university in which you yourself teach and work, has already proposed for medicines of bovine origin and, in particular, for gelatin appropriate precautions, which have taken place in Austria since 1994, which has made legal implementation in Austria. I should also like to remind you, without worrying the Austrians even more, that for blood and blood products, for thrombocyte donors and all those related things, appropriate legal arrangements have been implemented in Austria for many years. I should like to point out that BSE-free products have been prescribed for vaccines since 1990 and that a WHO working group is currently dealing with this problem again in order to further develop and think back. One must never stop in research and teaching, but must evaluate and develop earlier measures taken from time to time, especially when there is new knowledge. We have always implemented all these areas in Austria as best we can according to the state of science in order to guarantee Austrian freedom of disease and thus health. In addition to 1990 when the general ban on the feeding of animal meal in Austria took place, on 22 October 1990 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. On March 1, 1996, live-drivers and embryos imports from England and seed imports from England were banned. And we've got 3 on the 3rd. This ban was imposed on the United Kingdom on April 1996. I would like to remind you that at the time I was accused as a parliamentarian by many who are critical of these measures today – mainly Scottish highland cattle at the time; one can read this in the debate of the time – that I was a lobbyist of the Rally rider Wittmann, who at the time had legally imported the only tribes to Austria, and similar things more. . One sees the time healing wounds, and today I am also given to those who criticised me for the measures I have still called for and operated from the Bank of Deputies, in which I am entitled to demand and demand these measures. ==References== On 4 March 1996 the same ban on imports was imposed on Switzerland. On 13 December 1998, Portugal was imposed on it. In November 2000, these bans were also imposed on France. So it's not like it was read in the Austrian newspapers on the weekend that you can only write letters concerning French imports today with the request that the farmers withdraw from it, but the ban that I did on the 11th. ==References====External links== It was ratified by the European Commission in November 2000. At the meeting you mentioned, Mrs Petrovic, our ratified ban was sent to the Scientific Committee. I am sure that, in my ban, I have been expressly following the recommendations of the Scientific Committee and no one else that our ban can last for so long as the disease situation and the eradication situation in France are not in line with the health measures in the interests of the Austrian population. I should also like to point out that since 1991 the monitoring of bovine animals with central nervous symptoms and subsequent laboratory tests has been standard. I should like to point out that since 1997 the monitoring of all bovine animals from countries with BSE and research in slaughter has been standard. I can remind you that since 6. In July 1998, the BSE monitoring of Austria – laboratory examinations and EU sampling plan – was extended to cover all our animal diseases. The BSE Regulation (Federal Law) 2/72 1999 prescribed the obligation to display all spongiform encephalopathies in all animals. I should also like to point out that the feline spongy encephalopathy known from England, which occurred there in about 100 to 200 cats and has been shown not to be found in any case in us. I therefore stress that, on the basis of the use of our animal body waste products, we can still be convinced and honest in our opinion that we have made every effort to ensure the best possible implementation of product safety in Austria in the interests of our consumers and in the interests of the safety of our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to point out that, in addition to that, and in addition, the regulation of the Federal Minister for Consumer Affairs and Consumer Protection on the disposal, processing and marketing of animal waste - the 1999 animal health regulation - has been adopted, which has taken into account the problem you, Mrs Petrovic, have raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11698	Federal Minister! The speaking times of 10 minutes in § 93 para. 5 refers to every speaker in the debate. Please, come to a close slowly!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11717	We've been on the 12th. The TSE Anti-Poverty Regulation was adopted in October 2000. ==References== In January 2001, if we have the corresponding staff, we will also extend all the investigations to cover what I have always represented, namely all animals that are not born in Austria, all emergency slaughters, all the slaughters of the disease and all the animals that have suspected symptoms in classifications 1 to 3 according to Swiss model. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have taken more precautions in Austria than any other European country. We can therefore give our consumers, if they consume Austrian goods in Austrian processing in Austria, the best possible guarantee that they are thus spared from health damage. And nothing else claimed this federal government. But in the future, we will continue to try to improve food safety and therefore health in Austria, and we will see the attitude represented here by Mr Molterer on 4 May. It is also represented jointly in Brussels on 1 December.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11753	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11774	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has been right in many areas. He has outlined the scenario here, why this BSE scandal has at all come to be, and I give Mr Cap the right to do so in many matters. This BSE scandal actually shows the exodus of agricultural bureaucracy and agriculture in the EU. And unfortunately, how dangerous this is is God’s only notice when some consumers suffer harm. We know, of course, that the reason for these growths in the European agricultural policy is the total industrialization of agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at how far this industrialization has progressed in France, for example, you can see that 20 percent of the farmers operating these agricultural industries use 80 percent of the agricultural funding in France. Over the last few years, more than 200 000 farms have disappeared in France alone. More than 200 000 farms in France in the last three or four years! Ladies and gentlemen! This agricultural industry has managed to convert vegetarian ruminants into meat eaters. You just have to look at what came out. These refunctioned meat eaters, which were processed more or less later into animal meal, have thus entered a huge vicious circle, because of course every animal that subsequently received this feed was also exposed to the risk of BSE disease. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic! They make it too easy for you to make yourself here today and make the current Minister for Agriculture or the Minister for Social Affairs responsible for this missing EU agricultural policy and for this mismanagement, which unfortunately God has found at EU level. It's just too cheap to make you responsible. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. May. Mühlbachler.]] We know how modest the influence or the possibility of an influence by Austria within the framework of the great European Union is in reality. There are only a few small things that need to be taken into account at European level for unanimity, in which we may be able to impose some demands for the benefit of the Austrians. That's why I'm saying: Any possibility that one leaves out in this context in the context of such legislation within the EU is a given possibility. We need to take full advantage of these few possibilities that remain for us to make the EU think in this regard. Under the new Minister for Social Security and Generations Herbert Haupt and under Minister for Agriculture Molterer, a proposal will be decided here today, which is forward-looking not only for Austria but also for the whole European Union. We were finally able to implement what we liberals have dreamed of for years. We want a strict label. We have been demanding for years regarding the "A" seal that it is finally necessary to specify exactly the origin and origin of the product. The consumer is, of course, deceived – we know that – and we want to prevent this in the future. This federal government confesses itself to God thanks to a comprehensive, ecologically oriented peasantry. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! I will support you with all my options.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11835	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11859	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Cap, I hope it will not hurt you that a Member of the Government Party will now again signal agreement with you. My name is Bauer, but it's not a farmer. I am pleased, however, to be able to speak on an agricultural subject once. I give you the right in many things to pursue today's debate from the point of view of consumers. I also believe – and join those who have said so – that it should be important to us MEPs and our politicians not to let down the confidence of consumers, which is the greatest good for us, but also to carry out no uncertainty. I didn't quite understand the excitement today when my colleague Jacob We have made the accusation to you – we have now returned to an objective discussion thanks to God – that the suspicion has existed that we want to make a political change here with emotions and insecure the consumer. Mr Cap! I'm referring to you again. You meant that the host knew the Schweindl personally, from which you ate the good schnitzel. For me, this is a support, and I would like to point this out. Good quality in animals presupposes a good attitude, a good feeding. That was not always undisputed in this room, because just the Greens have always spoken indictingly. Farmers know that they have to feed their animals well, that they have to keep them good, because only then good quality comes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has been pointed out very often today that a lot has already happened. I would like to say once again that Austria was a pioneer in the demand and also in the implementation of the cattle label. Each Austrian cow has a family tree, a so-called pass. Every piece of Austrian beef can be traced back to the animal husband and farm. I believe that this is extremely important to consumers, so this label is very important to us too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Two colleagues here today have partially subverted in the house and masked the AMA company. Ladies and gentlemen! When I sit in front of the TV at home, I'm a normal consumer. I am very grateful to the company AMA, which shows very well with its advertising strategy and alerts consumers to where to look, how to actually follow the path of the product, where it comes from, and that it is basically also important to buy an Austrian product in order to have legal certainty and risk minimisation when buying this piece of meat. I think you have to say that, as a matter of principle. It has already been pointed out that we have the strictest standards in the production of animal meal. The strictest directives on the prohibition of feeding animal meal to ruminants have already been observed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is so important to me as a result of this discussion: It has often been spoken of by the organic farmers and the protection of organic farmers. We must not give the impression that nothing has happened by means of emotional discussion, by accusations to the Minister, to the Government. We must not insure consumers that they are of course afraid of buying these products because they are harming the small farmers. These small farmers are, in fact, the first to have to lock up which must give up their farm. This will actually give consumers the chance to buy these products, then the large animal factories and animal producers will eventually have the chance to get onto the market. There can be no such thing as the failure of foreign countries – many have been addressed here – to fall to the head of slutting or negligence of our domestic producers, and that we are undifferentiated, simply around ourselves, argumented and ultimately harming the local farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think we can look to the future with our motion for a resolution and with the words of the two ministers responsible. I also welcome the point of the motion for a resolution concerning the 'A' seal. I believe that with this proposal and its implementation in Austria, we will again be a special example in the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11939	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. The speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e11961	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's issue of BSE is very important and serious for a parliamentarian, for a farmer and for a consumer. It has already been mentioned by several speakers here that it is our health in particular. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] If we have to pay attention to our health, it is also a matter of ensuring a certain degree of confidence in the peasantry. This confidence in the peasantry is natural if one compares – just as Mr Cap has done – that the controls are taken very seriously. I'll give you a hand. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian farmers were controlled more than 90,000 times by the agricultural market Austria in 1999. That's important, that's good. On this occasion I also asked the Council: What about controls in the other EU Member States? – The Council gave me an answer: Such checks as they exist in Austria, for example, with regard to the AMA seal do not exist in the other Member States. And that's the big piggy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In today's debate, perhaps a little too little attention has been paid to this agricultural industry. Newspaper reports – for example the one in the "spiegel" – read that a agricultural factory at least six floors in the port of Rotterdam is to be built, which is 400 meters wide and 3 kilometers long. There are to be accommodated: 300 000 pigs and 250 000 laying hens on many floors and 1 million masts. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a point of common interest and the call and warning to the EU that future healthy food is not secured by the agricultural industry but by the rural family farms that we have to support. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I do not think it matters today which party submits the better request. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] It is about understanding the farmers and supporting our domestic family farms. Parliament is here to vote for a real alliance, the alliance with the farmer and the alliance with the consumer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12021	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Count. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12043	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I have actually spoken for the same reason as Mr Cap. I am also concerned with the people in Austria, I am also concerned about the subject matter. However, I very much regret that it is not really possible to discuss this subject objectively and to come up with a four-party proposal here. Mr Cap! I have heard your words, I alone lack faith. In fact, if we observe the course of the opposition also on this issue, which concerns all people in Austria and also in Europe, I can only conclude that, in particular, the ladies and gentlemen of the Green Party are just another headline policy, a headline policy that is going through from this BSE scandal, which now overshadows us in Europe, to everything else. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] The Greens are concerned with optics, and Mrs Petrovic has said that she wants the pressure of the media reports to become so strong that we read her requests and listen to them as well. And even on this important subject, Mrs Moser did not know how to come with her "Mr Minister". Yes, we have nothing else to do? – People expect a solution expertise from us. You expect us to solve a problem objectively instead of just doing headline policy as you do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I also suspect that you want to use this topic again to look after yourself with foreign feathers. Mr Bundesminister Haupt has explained exactly how much he has been fighting since 1990 for the disposal of animal meal feeding, especially for ruminants. Just as you did at the ElWOG, in which you put the foreign feathers on the hat afterwards, by asking for a preliminary presentation for the implementation of the proposals we have put forward, even though you voted against the ElWOG, you do the same here. And that's what I'm sorry about! - The regretful! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The regret!]] I regret it. The same applies also if Mr Kogler – and that is again a supporter of what I say; You just want to make headline policy here – here comes out and says: The government stands with its back to the wall, because there are surveys against the Minister of Justice. - You said that. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Investigations!]] – Surveys! Mr Khol has come out and corrected you. [[Abg. May. Kogler: He's correcting what I didn't say!]] He has said that the prosecutor's office has announced that only the correctness of the ad will be checked, otherwise nothing at all! But you don't have the mumm to go to the speaker's desk here and say: Please, excuse me. I misinterpreted. – It’s about a headline policy that you’ll continue here at the BSE scandal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to tell you one thing, too: There are now new motions for resolutions from you, new motions for resolutions to the Government. How do you want a government that you agree with democratic legitimacy to act for us? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is a simple principle of parliamentarianism, Mr. Cot!]] This is a policy of headlines that you are bringing back here, just like the budget, which you have not put forward a single counter-proposal, a single constructive counter-proposal, a policy of headlines, as you did in the sanctions. And that's why we can't go along with your request. This one is quite clearly explained here: It provides for an immediate ban on imports of beef from all EU countries. Can we be sure that you will not be presented to the EU again in the morning and say: Well, the sanctions might have been justified. Does Austria now become one-sided towards the EU? – This is the issue that we cannot agree on this matter here. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to return to this policy of headlines – I cannot say the right word for it, otherwise I will get a call for an order – and to join our proposal on this issue. He contains the only truth, and he brings, last but not least, to the population what it wants: Solution competence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12138	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12160	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I only have a minute's speaking time, but the last speeches were so hypocritical, especially those of Mr Graf, who claimed here that the FPÖ would be interested in a four-party request. [[Embarrassed opposition to the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It is scandalous how you proceed, scandalous in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Federal Minister would have been ready for a four-party request, but your Mr. Klubdirector has prevented this. And if the substantial changes to this joint proposal are not possible, we cannot go along with your request either, that is clear. We demand a parliamentary survey! We have seen in today's debate how many uncompetent reports here on BSE are still evident. And that's a problem! This has to be clarified, but we need experts. A parliamentary survey on this issue was obviously too much for the FPÖ colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12210	Deputies! One minute's over, unfortunately! [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 330/A (E) tabled by Mr Petrovic and Mr Comrades on BSE-Sofort measures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Achatz and Mr Comrades on measures based on the current BSE situation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to SPÖ and Green) Aha, against animal meal forbidden!]] – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 48.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pittermann and Mr Comrades on a general ban on animal feed in Austrian agriculture. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Call the SPÖ – towards the Freeman – now!]] – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Was it! Too late again!]] We have thus ended the votes. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12301	I will now resume the negotiations on the advisory groups I and II of the 2001 Federal Proposal. The next item is the report by Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12325	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mrs Mag. Plank von der SPÖ, who was my immediate predecessor before the interruption of the urgent request, spoke of a supposed scandal in connection with a Klimt image, which is currently being used as a sign of an exhibition of the Austrian Gallery. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's APA can be seen that exactly this picture of Gustav Klimt, namely "Dame with Federboa", is being resettled. The Art Advisory Board has found that the provisions of the provision apply. Why am I saying this in connection with criticism, with the opinion of Mr Plank? – I am saying this because it is precisely this that clearly shows the selective perception of the Social Democrats, the former left half of the empire, in the debate with National Socialism. On something to be described as positive in connection with the reworking of our dark history before 1945, namely, the provision of an image that someone was pressed down, one does not lose a word. But if this picture is used as an exhibition image, then it's "frightful". It is also to be noted from tomorrow's edition of the "Kurier" that the affected family, i.e. the family of the victim who is now getting the picture back, as well as its legal representatives, have naturally expressed their interest in the fact that this picture is shown until the end of the exhibition, because it is generally known that it is not exactly for the damage of the image owner, if an image acts as a demonstration copy of an exhibition. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to donate the reconciliation fund. There too we could see this strange image of social democracy and the Greens. I did not believe to trust my ears when Mr Stoisits, but also Mr Posch's criticism of the fact that these 6 billion schillings were finally imposed. [[Abg. May. Posch: No! That's a false interpretation!]] I have to emphasize – and this is something that shakes me personally –: From your words it was quite clear that it would have been preferable to you that these 6 billion schillings would not have been imposed than that now 6 billion schillings will be made available to the 149 000 still living victims – only so that you can change your political change. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What's this about? – It has been said that 6 billion schillings are being raised, 3 billion on the one hand by the Republic, on the other hand by the economy. Similar things are happening now. The economy is exclusively disbursing the insolvency fund, of which those 6 billion shilling are partly formed. [[Abg. Silhavy: But what is the insolvency fund for?]] What is to be rejected if this surplus is available, is not recognizable! No one can say that this will only take away a schilling for the unemployed. I think that's really bad! You should also ask yourself, given the fact that further discussions and contracts in connection with the Reconciliation Fund Act will take place this week, whether you are really discussing them. Now a small contribution to the historical debate that has been held today on perpetrators and victims and on how meaningful this dispute or the division in perpetrators and victims is. Mr Posch has therefore phased something of an Austrian fascistic gene, which he obviously took over from Mrs Jelinek, who once spoke of it. Let me explain my view of things on this certainly very delicate matter. At that time, before the "connect", in my opinion, there were essentially three groups in Austria. First of all, there were those who could be described as a glowing advocate of National Socialism, who welcomed the "connecting" stormily. Then there were those who were characterized by a certain "connect" longing. In this context, I would like to point out that in the First Republic of Austria, many of these "connected" longings were caught, in particular social democracy. It was also the Social Democracy which, in its party programme, had the "connected" to Germany! And it was the great man of social democracy, Renner, who, on the day of the forced and well-known popular vote, said that this day was the most beautiful day of his life. So those who were packed by the "connect" desire, because they did not believe that Austria alone would be viable, were the ones who, in the end, also entered into this list of victims. And then there was a third group, which were the glowing Austrian patriots, who thanked God also very many in this country. I still have a historic broadcast in my ear, in which about the following can be heard: Just a few days before the invasion, Schuschnigg has convened a meeting in front of the violent annexation, in which the Stakkato was called again and again: "Red-white red to death, red-white red!" This is, please, a historical fact that you cannot deny, even though tens of thousands of people have gone to the street and have finally welcomed entry. There have been these glowing patriots who have never intervened for this "connect". Finally, this "connection" – and you know this too – took place only because Schuschnigg immediately, in other words, in freedom, in sovereignty, had a referendum and Hitler-Germany had to assume that this vote was negative. That's why you marched in. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm coming to the People's Procuratorate now. This may not be a very harmonious transition now, but be permitted. I welcomed the fact that at the beginning of this year, the People's Procuratorate broke a discussion on the accelerated handling of judicial proceedings. Of course, we have a strict line to make: On the one hand stands the independence of the case law, since the public prosecutor has lost nothing – the public prosecutor will forgive me for this expression. But on the other hand, there's the judicial administration. The question of delay in proceedings concerns the judicial administration, and there is something the public prosecutor has lost. I therefore welcome and congratulate the People's Procuratorate that 20 percent of all complaints received by you have been considered justified and 90 percent of these legitimate complaints have finally been dismissed by the Public Procuratorate's Court. I refer to the Court of Justice's Perception Report, which speaks of some of the proceedings taking place for a long time. It was only a short time ago that the Republic of Austria had been sentenced in four cases because the proceedings took too long. It's got to be stopped! To the Constitutional Court, Supreme Courts very briefly. We agree that there must be an improvement in the so-called mass proceedings so that the Constitutional Court cannot be arbitrarily paralysed. It is also safe to discuss the partiality of the Supreme Institutions, not on the basis of a special case, but in general, as Professor Adamovich, the President of the Constitutional Court said: The brilliance of the Supreme Institutions is to be discussed globally and scientifically, because it can occur everywhere! For example, there could be a financial reporting procedure that concerns a relative of the Minister of Finance, or an operating permit procedure that concerns a business of the Minister of Economic Affairs, so on. – This problem is not regulated in the Constitution. There is no regulation in relation to the partiality of the Supreme Institutions. There must be a ministerial responsibility, but there must also be a regime on what is right if there is a partiality of the Minister in a specific case.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12384	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12406	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! Ladies and gentlemen! A comment to my previous speaker: For me, Mr Posch's criticism of the compensation payments is already comprehensible and justified, because if entrepreneurs, service providers, are practically dismissed from the business account and only 500 million schilling are taken up so to speak, then it cannot be that workers and the unemployed are asked to pay me for 3.7 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The economy has paid it!]] This situation, ladies and gentlemen, may well be criticized. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But Her way of dealing with the story is to shake the head anyway. Bizarr also the theses of colleague Krüger. But, ladies and gentlemen, I have been bred a lot, because I have already received in this House a call for an order that I have called the Austro-fascist Dolphin a "fascist and murderer", an Austro-fascist Dolphin, who has eliminated this Parliament, who has sent wounded people, Mr Kukacka, to the gallows, an Austro-fascist dolphin, who is called by Klubobmann Khol as "real Austrian patriot" and whose counterpart with you in the ÖVP, Mr Kukaka, adorns the club rooms. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is completely indifferent!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He himself was wounded and was the first victim of National Socialism!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Have you ever read anything?]] That's how it looks! And you've got to be very brewed to keep all this going. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to the People's Procuratorate.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12505	I notice: I can't understand everything because of numerous calls. In this situation, perhaps we should go down a little bit, otherwise it will be expressed that are no longer entirely appropriate to the dignity of this House. [[Recent calls of the ÖVP and counter-calls of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: All right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: I don't know!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12557	It depends on the contradiction of the Austrofascist Dolphin in your club room, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: So what?]] I can't add anything to it. [[More "So what?"- Call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: What are you upsetting? He's just telling the truth!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No! He criticizes that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! To the public prosecutor's office: 55.47 million Schilling annual budget – by 2.7 million more! Mr Volksanwalt, I think this is justified, because your work, your scope of work will increase dramatically. There will now be more desperate people turning to the People's Procuratorate, people who no longer know how to proceed – primarily in the social field, when I think about those 106 000 families in the housing sector, who are insecure in a night and fog action... [[Abg. Haller: Again these untruths!]] – Of course, Mrs Colleague, interest and operating costs will then be used, and, of course, there will be more temporary rental contracts. All of this is taken from these people. You will therefore have much to do with this, Mr Volksanwalt, even in the whole area of sick and socially weakened people, who can no longer afford the costs of the disease, after the principle of solidarity is deliberately destroyed in Austria, workers' representatives are weakened and social insurance is disassembled. In this respect, a lot of tasks and a lot of work will be done on the public prosecutor's office. [[Abg. Großruck: Read more in today's "Kurier"! It's in there!]] – Mr colleague, how was it in England with Mrs Thatcher? It has also broken down employee representatives, which has had a disastrous impact on the health system. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In England, in the era Thatcher, an elderly woman, perhaps 65 years of age, had no chance of, for example, an artificial hip joint if she could not pay it. Bad luck! No money, bedridden – you have to die earlier! On the other hand, we are acting so decisively, Mr President. [[New condolences with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Or: For example, if someone collapses in the United States, he will first see if he has inserted a credit card. If he didn't, he'd be wrong. And this path is also to be feared here in Austria! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] And I'm telling you another, very concrete example: If the rescue helicopters are privatized, sooner or later the day will come when: Who's the bad guy? Does he even have the opportunity to pay for this private rescue helicopter? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You've been preventing rescue helicopters for 20 years? You were!]] – Until recently, there has been a functioning rescue helicopter system, dear colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Then don't talk as if...!]] For the future, we will only see whether, in the end, foreigners or social weaknesses, if they have a car accident, will be saved from this private rescue system. This will bring the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not wish to miss out on giving thanks and recognition to the People's Procuratorate on the part of the Socialist Group. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You used to ask about the party book!]] [[Abg. Grabner: Take it easy!]] In 1999, 9 186 people turned to the public prosecutor's office. This is an extremely imposing Pensum that the People's Procuratorate had to complete. I would ask you, Mr Volksanwalt, also to thank your colleagues and the staff of your home. In the legislative suggestions – and this is quite interesting – the Volksanwälte urgerate in the 23rd century. Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office a departure from the Party Proporz in the Colleges of District and Regional School Councils, i.e. the often accused lack of objectivity in school staff orders. But this is often not the case, Mr. Volksanwalt. I have a case in front of me concerning school supervision in the Graz-Umgebung Nord district. This function has not been occupied since September 1998, although the candidate Wolfgang Schnelzer has clearly enforced himself in the assessment process, has also been appointed at a collegiate meeting – interestingly with a majority of SPÖ and FPÖ at the time of the coalition, that is, undoubtedly an objective decision – only: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Because the FPÖ was there!]] Mr Gehrer has been refusing to sign for years, ladies and gentlemen. This man is the best, he's been ordered, but the minister doesn't sign! So if you are dealing with political pride in relation to schools, you also have to look at such things. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But the post goes...!]] It will not be because the candidate in question is volunteering with the Styrian children's friends!Unknown term type: "%s".? There is also a request on this subject, which can be faced with excitement. Another case, Mr. Volksanwalt. If the Public Prosecutor's address takes place in Styria, you will be confronted with students, namely, trainees of the health and nursing professions. Some 1,000 pupils in the Styria are affected by the fact that they do not get paid off if they drive from their school place to a practical place. You don't get a free ride for that! And this is a complete imbalance, an inequality of treatment, for example, compared to the training of kindergartens who, when driving from the primary school to a dislodged place where they receive practical instruction, receive this free ride. The statements of the Ministry are not comprehensible, they are subjective interpretations. We still refuse to accept this equal treatment with kindergarten training. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In the Styria you can do everything better since Leopold Schöggl was there!]] Mr Volksanwalt, I will also provide you with documents on this case and wish that this problem be addressed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Finally, on the question of additional tasks for the Public Procuratorate. You know, I'm skeptical on this point. On the one hand, because I believe that there will be much more tasks and problems for the public prosecutors in the future from social emergencies, caused by the policy of this federal government. On the subject of legislative initiatives, I have also noted several times that this is a very fundamental problem. The question arises whether the Court of Auditors or, for example, the Data Protection Council should not have the opportunity to introduce legislative initiatives. But I mean, a completely different task would be useful. Mr. Volksanwalt! Please take care of the animal protection! I demand an animal welfare competence for the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a call for help from the emergency. Accept this topic and help you because for a three-quarters of a year, the ÖVP has not even been willing to allow a session on animal welfare in Austria. There is a separate subcommittee, and I have to say to the fairness that the FPÖ and, of course, the Greens are always ready for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! Battery maintenance, cow-trainers, split-beds, mass animal farming, traps, hit irons, exposed animals, the unexplained situation as regards dangerous dogs – all this is a truly scandalous situation. Questionable lobby groups are protected. A good way to make progress here, Mr. Volksanwalt, would be an animal welfare competence for the People's Procuratorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12815	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12837	Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. Estimated representatives of the People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that at least then and when the speech comes to the groups in Austria, and I would like to dedicate my contribution to this issue in a short part of the introduction, because I really believe that it was remarkable, at what speed and with what course this government has taken real steps on issues of popular group policy. The fact that these steps were only possible because there has been a very broad consensus here in the House, in fact all the political groups, on essential issues, I would also like to say very well here. The state objective, as it stands today, would not otherwise have been able to decide at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is remarkable that, in the forthcoming budget of the Republic of Austria, it is also granted the appropriate financial scope for the group policy, that no cuts have been made in relation to the previous budget approach and that it is ensured that in future the objective of this objective and of the group policy in Austria as a whole, namely to promote ethnic, cultural and linguistic diversity in Austria, can be maintained. I would like to point out, because some practical examples have already been mentioned in this context today, that it must also be noted that this policy has gained not only academic but also very probably very practical importance, and that there are demonstrable successes. If, especially in Carinthia – and I know very well – today we can say that, on the basis of the last census between 1981 and 1991, de facto a stagnation of assimilation has occurred, so almost as many people are confessing their Slovenian ethnic origin and their language and their culture, this is undoubtedly a remarkable fact, especially when one looks at the development in the periods before which dramatic declines in this confession became visible. Ladies and gentlemen! If one knows that the Slovenian people in Carinthia are significantly positive in many areas from the majority population – for example, twice as many academics can be found in this group, the Slovenian people in the income situation is clearly better placed – this is an indication that, above all, what has happened here in the context of education policy has actually worked. The fact that there is a bilingual education in primary education, that there is a bilingual trade academy in Carinthia, that there is a bilingual gymnasium, has ultimately also led to such progress in this context, in particular in terms of academic training. I can only encourage the government and us here in the house to continue in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since Dr. Herbs has also led the discussion back into the past, allow me a few very personal words on this subject. I may come from a somewhat strange biotope, but this is probably not so strange, I think it is rather a typical Austrian. I come from a family that also derives from that minister of the government of Schuschnigg, who has been quoted today, namely Guido Zernatto, my great uncle. That part of the family is deeply rooted in a Christian democratic and Christian social tradition. But I come from a marriage in which the other part has stood in a completely different tradition, namely, many in a passive, partly even very active attitude to National Socialism. Ladies and gentlemen! I was born into a family where the conversation was still very common and also about political issues. If I listen to the discussion here in the house, I often feel a little scared. Of course you need to differentiate there. Of course, all of this has had reasons and motives, and of course you must not hide the history of the Danube monarchy and the history of the First Republic. For example, it must not be hidden that this First Republic and its political representatives have obviously failed to overcome the languagelessness that ended in the state and then finally in the "connect". Finally, it was this speechlessness of the political leaders that led them to stop developing the ability to overcome barriers and to have a conversation. I am also influenced by that generation of politicians after the war, who have almost left out no opportunity – that was also the call I have always received in my family –: In your life, please always try to think with the head of the others! Arguments are not automatically wrong just because they come from political competitors. But also require respect for your arguments. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe in what has always been emphasized by these older colleagues, in that spirit of the camp road, which was always conspired at the time, that camp road in the various concentration camps of the "Third Reich" where those politicians who could not overcome speechlessness before the war then met again. And that is actually what I ask for, or that is a request from me – not so much a request, it is not for me – that in today's political discussion with the immense problems and concerns we have with the design of the future, we do not now try to convert this discussion into an inadequate way, as I think, to a historical discussion, with the only purpose of discrediting the political competitors in any form. I am convinced that this is inadequate, and I believe that it would also be totally inappropriate for those who gave us the advice I spoke about earlier. Excuse me for having crossed my speaking time, and apologise for talking about a subject that might have exceeded my competence. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Sorry!]] But it was a concern to me, and it is important to me that we do not sacrifice the ability to talk to each other, to discuss each other concretely and objectively, on the altar of cheap party polemics. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12895	I agree with the personal finding that it was really worth overcoming the time and making this statement, and give the next speaker, Mr Magistrate. Maier, the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e12917	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! I would personally like to follow the conclusions of my previous speaker that there should be no renunciation of arguments in favour of party policy. I will therefore try to argue on why, from the point of view of the Social Democratic Party, an improvement in the level of data protection in Austria is absolutely necessary. The Federal Chancellor, who unfortunately is not present in the discussion today, has answered my questions in the Budget Committee whether he considers a revision of the Data Protection Act necessary or whether he advocates that the Office of the Data Protection Commission and the Data Protection Council be better equipped, both with No. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But he was here a lot of time!]] So there would be no need for a revision of the data protection law and, secondly, no better equipment of the office of the Data Protection Commission and the Data Protection Council. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the draft budget, it is not clear what the Republic is actually spending on data protection in Austria. It is also not possible to see how we are in the European comparison. Then, ladies and gentlemen, came the invention of the citizen card that creates new data protection problems, problems that need to be dealt with legislatively. We believe that this is why only a novel of the Data Protection Act is absolutely necessary. In addition, however, the discussions of the past few weeks have shown in the so-called top-level coward, clearly as never before, that we have shortcomings in Austrian data protection law. It has been shown that there are no checks on queries, in particular of sensitive data, and that there are also problems with the personnel and material equipment of the Data Protection Council's office in the Data Protection Commission. Now, on the question of the so-called citizen card, we Socialists are absolutely critical of it. Although it has announced the highest level of data protection, it does not say that the Data Protection Act must also be updated. He spoke of the "slender state" and the "strong citizen". I wonder, Does not the strong citizen also need strong data protection rights? – This question has so far not been answered. I should also like to remind you at this point of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has recently spoken against certain ECIS data. On the other hand, he expressed serious concern that the police computer retains notes on law enforcement measures, even though it has already shown that the suspicion was nothing against them. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is not only a novel to the Data Protection Act, it is also a matter of looking closely at the data security concepts in the public and private sectors and here offering solutions for more data protection in Austria. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, these were factual arguments, as did my previous speaker. The Socialist Group may invite you to accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13015	The motion for a resolution that has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13040	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! We are debating the budget, Advisory Group I, Supreme Institutions. It is about figures and facts, but not only about them, but also, of course, about the sensibleness of the measures put in place with the budgets. I assume that the meaning of the institution is consensual matter. I believe that it has also been taken from the comments made by my colleague Herb. The public prosecutor's institution can, of course, not only serve to be a point of contact for citizens, so to speak, a bill for the citizen, but it should also show abuses and give suggestions to improve the situation. I have taken the 1999 report from the Public Prosecutor's Office. In this context, my appeal is addressed to my predecessors, colleagues herbs, who are afraid that there could be many more cases under the new government that concern the public prosecutors. On the very touching statements made by Mr Christof Zernatto: I respect your fears when they are meant to be honest, but this thick band includes cases that have been shown in the time of the past government and which still have been completed. That is the 1999 report. I would like to refer here to a few cases, due to the occasions which have taken place in my political activity and which have really been, for many, many years, Mr Herb's colleague, doing their job. They themselves have chosen the occupation of headmaster posts, a subject which we have long held in the political debate and which has been set out in the reports of the People's Procuratorate since 1993, because head and teacher posts are still occupied on a proposal by colleges of the District and State School Councils appointed in accordance with the Party Protocol. It's different in Carinthia, as you know. I hope it will be in the future... – Yes, I believe that myself, because I know it is different, and you should know it too. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You don't believe that yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I hope that this partisan proporce will also be abolished, Mr Niederwieser, and we both have been sitting in such a body in Tyrol. However, I would also like to start – and I am very glad that Mr Finz is still there from the Ministry of Finance – that a manko has been shown here again and again, and since 1993, in relation to the deductibility of health insurance contributions, namely private insurance relating to frontier workers. This concerns border workers both in Switzerland and in neighbouring Germany, which is mainly about Vorarlberg and Tirol, and that has been the case for many years. If these people who work abroad make use of it on the grounds that there is the possibility of private insurance, and these private insurances are offered cheaper, then they do not have the opportunity to withdraw these private insurances in Austria. I believe that there must be equality as soon as possible and that private insurance for frontier workers should also be recognised as advertising costs. Another case, which, of course, is at my heart as a family spokesperson and which also concerns the financial office or the financial offices: For years, the Public Prosecutor's Office has repeatedly pointed out that procedural delays in the area of family support and other benefits under the Family Allowance Act have occurred, particularly in cases relating to increased family allowances. It is specified which financial country directors are concerned. The very, very long period of proceedings is initiated, and it is also suggested that requests from the public prosecutor's office are not answered quickly. I believe that the 300 million schillings transferred to the financial offices in the framework of the next budget from the Family Compensation Fund are also to be seen as a contribution that will enable the aid to be made in this area and the people concerned to reach their right faster. At the end of my remarks, however, a first positive remark, concerning the women's advisory services: Since 1997 the Public Prosecutor's Office has called for the creation of a legal framework for women's advisory services. This is a measure that was created not only by the public prosecutors but also by the women's advisory bodies themselves. With this new government, we have already managed to put in place legal measures in the field of youth promotion, and I can tell you that the Social Ministry has already launched such work for women's advisory services. New criteria for directives are to be drawn up first, and it is seriously thought that these promotion directives should then be adopted by law. I am very pleased that women in the future will no longer be arbitrarily and according to party-political considerations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13083	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13105	Mr President. High house! Somehow I am inclined to make a little criticism about the course of our budget debates at all. There is such a flowing transition: Now there have been speeches to the public prosecutor's office, now the cultural block is coming, and the culture wants to speak and discuss, namely, the 36th with 38. Or something like that. [[Abg. Haller: That's not new, Mr. Cap!]] - No, it's just an inspiration. This is not an accusation – no one – but today I have noticed it very much again, and I thought I was just saying it here in the plenary room. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Perhaps you can think together about how to shape the budget debates in the future. I can't blame anyone if he's looking for refuge in a newspaper or the second time a sleep attack is successfully prevented on the government bank. I understand. The debate goes on for hours, and that hardly has any structure. I am simply saying this as a proposal. Second: I found the words of Christof Zernatto very impressive. If you try to get together with this attitude and work together, whether it be controversial, to discuss it, to discuss it, to discuss it, to work out – in whatever context – I think it makes sense to learn from it, and above all with the common goal that many things, many of them may not repeat at that time, and be it in other forms and in other ways. I think that is a basis that could represent a basic consensus between us and where you should work – whether you are in opposition or in government. I believe that this debate is not suitable for this, either, in order to work out quickly between two topics: What about Seyss-Inquart, why is he right in the government, and when was the last statement? I can't. You're supposed to think about something or something else. For example, we have discussed a House of Tolerance, a House of History, where we could also think about the period from 1900 to 2000 from this point of view. But you have to work this out in peace and not excommunicatively, as if you were still asking the question today, whether the X and the Y are now... It doesn't make any sense. That would be my need, and I see the initiative that Christof Zernatto has taken there as an incentive to perhaps deal with it thoughtfully or in a particular form of event in Parliament. I thought it was useful. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP and the Greens.]] But in order for Mr Morak's Secretary of State not to go too well on the government bank, I have to put something in the matter here, which is so to speak with the beginning of the cultural issue. I do not want to repeat the debates that we already had in the committees, including the Committee on Budgets, but today I was very interested – of course, he will have thought so – in following his interview on the cultural side in the "standard" where he was once again questioned by an interested journalist on non-essential issues of cultural policy, the cultural climate, cultural self-conception of his work as State Secretary. I would like to suggest that, on the basis of his words here, I assume that his claim is going further than just being a cultural administrator or a cultural manager or a state secretary in the narrower sense, but I think that he also claims to express himself politically, as he did here once so beautifully, on the question of book pricing or social security, to express his opinion on the many very, very important details of his place of business, and indeed to express himself further. What bothered me somehow – I say this again today; perhaps we have an opportunity to discuss it more thoroughly, but at least it would be an opportunity to replicate it from the government bank – was that you, Mr State Secretary, were not very involved in the last cultural discussion we had here, namely, as three FPÖ MPs went to the speaker's desk and discussed contemporary art in a way that has always been the custom of some of the FPÖ delegates, namely very discriminatory, very critical and, in fact, very exclusive, so far: Well, if the filmmaker doesn't have enough people in the cinema and the theater maker isn't reading enough people in the theater and the literature – what is that supposed to do? Mrs Burket has been very forward-looking, further brief, and then Gaugg at the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] - No, I know. He said yes, a coalition is not a love relationship. And that he would "busy" parliamentarian Jung on his forehead, I would never demand of him – such a punishment, I think, would be really much too hard for him. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You don't know what love is!]] But I do believe that State Secretary Morak would be required to take part in this discussion and to express an opinion here and actually very specific to the... – Why exactly? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Young.]] You'll be able to explain this later on. I think the Secretary of State would have the opportunity here to look at the side of the attacked contemporary artists, and also the questions which he did not ultimately answer in the "standard" – for example, the impact of the liberals on cultural policy, on your cultural policy, on which, apparently, he had many difficulties in the events with artists, even at the beginning of this government. There's a little too little when you say: No, that's not a love relationship, and by the way, we've done book pricing, social security and various things anyway. – That’s positive! That's what we've done together: Book pricing, artist social insurance. I think that is positive, because, I think, some progress has been made. But there is still a lot to be done – we have already discussed this in the field of social insurance for artists. But I believe that it is important for a State Secretary for Cultural Affairs to take a clear stand on the side of the criticised artists in such a discussion. That's why the coalition is far from breaking. The three of them will stand up to it, I assume, if the Secretary of State expresses his views on it. And that, I mean, would be necessary. Perhaps he wanted to get rid of it and not say that to the "standard" but to say it in plenary today – may also be – but I would ask him to say that he is ultimately referring to it, even as regards, for example, the question of Mr Rohsmann. There's also too little if you say you should look at this without hysteria, almost: Carinthia is far from developing hysteria. – I believe that these attacks, which have taken place on him, also make it necessary to take a clear position. And with that, I come to the third point – a subject that is actually happening again and again in these debates: It is the discussion about the museum quarter and about this famous "public netbase" group. We discussed this at the future workshop, and I have to say here what I have also explained there: It is impressive that you discuss a lot more about whether "Public Netbase" is in the museum quarter at all, and if so, how long, and much less what they do at all. But so seen – so seen! – I have to say, I know a lot about what they are doing, and I believe that this is very useful and that the museum quarter will also benefit from it. And one who is such a marketing talent that he almost always appears in the events again and again – and not even so bad – is actually a profit. He should just sit there alone for the reason because he is an advertising factor for the museum quarter. But you keep saying it's being evaluated, evaluated, evaluated. – I would be very interested: What is the result of this evaluation, and how do you in principle stand for it? In your opinion, it is not a matter of slowing down this debate, among other things, by deciding to the fact that, of course, Dr. Waldner has to do this primarily – that the spectrum in the museum quarter is also covered by the presence of these and similar groups – whether this is "depot" or "public netbase", and as they are all called – and that this is guaranteed. I believe that you do not actually forgive yourself, but, on the contrary, make a useful contribution to this design of this museum quarter. Otherwise, I was somehow impressed that you finally admitted in the interview that we had a 12 percent budget reduction for the promotion of art. The fact that this is not going on now is basically positive, but in the end there was it, and that in itself is not pleasing enough. Finally, I would like to highlight the Austrian film. In the past, you have actually been very committed to this, and I must say: The Austrian film is a real stepchild in Austria, and that is, I say, also in the interest of the Secretary of State, not only a question of culture, it is also a question of the location, in the end also a question of economic promotion, a question also of the animation of private capital that is being brought in here, and of a variety of other departments – that is, not only the section of Mr State Secretary, but also. I think it would be very useful if he were prepared to conflict with the Minister for Finance and others. This is what I wanted to put into the discussion here, and I hope that the Secretary of State will give an answer to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13191	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13212	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. President of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, I am sorry to interrupt the art debate now, because I want to deal with this House, that is, the House, and the organization of this House. – I agree perfectly with you, but I am sorry. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the 2001 budget, we have made around 50 million schillings here in the House, by reducing not really necessary building investments in the house, by reducing representation expenditure – representation expenditure in the broadest sense – and by reorganising the information system – we say: the much-quoted flood of paper. I cannot understand Mr Schieder's findings, in fact, that these cuts in parliamentaryism or even democracy call into question; I believe that these savings are comparatively "peanuts". We have additionally saved 50 million schillings, by a 2.5 percent increase in the pension contribution in active political relations. There are further savings in the parties or in the clubs – keyword LIF: the club contributions that once went to the LIF were not distributed aliquot to the parliamentary parties still represented here, but, on the contrary, they were saved – and we have saved another 5 million schillings in the political educational institutions for over two years. But this should not deceive us of the fact that there is, of course, a real need for urgent reform in this House. As regards the previously quoted insulation of the paper flood: It would be natural for each of our colleagues to receive an internet connection, the corresponding machine facilities, because I believe that there is still enormous potential for savings in this regard. I also believe that administrative savings are possible. I am thinking, for example, of the so-called spece billing. Ladies and gentlemen! There we ourselves were guilty, because we have simplified this fee bill in a way that requires a lot of time for the control of these bills – time, of course, means personnel costs. There are also proposals for savings. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A very, very important investment here at home would be the electronic voting system. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] We are probably the only Parliament, or almost the only Parliament, which does not yet have such a voting system. A very important concern here in the house has always been the legislative service for me. Ladies and gentlemen! We need in this House an institution consisting of lawyers, linguists, constitutional lawyers, but also experts from the economy and is at our side to examine our legal projects according to all the criteria such as understanding, constitutionality, but also costs. Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that once again, as our colleague Cap has already suggested, we should consider reforming the Rules of Procedure. I am thinking of the last plenary debate on the budget accompanying legislation. At the time, some 100 speakers spoke in this debate. It was all said after about 20 speakers, but not everyone had said everything. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Today too!]] This discussion, especially that part of the section on political relations, was really degoutant. We have to thank the editors of the television broadcast "Hohes Haus" for not all the embarrassments that take place here in this House are offered via screen to the citizen. Ladies and gentlemen! We will probably have to think about a new electoral right in the medium term, and we will probably have to think about whether we really need 183 Members here in the house. We've given a lot of legal competence to Brussels, and it would certainly be a... – Mrs. Dr. Mertel, are you afraid of your job? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: When are you leaving?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't, no, I certainly don't. That would certainly be a point to be discussed seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13284	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13305	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! To the art: Of course, it is always difficult to re-establish the link if there is another contribution to the debate. I just want to take a brief look at the art budget. First of all, I would like to say that the Secretary of State has now also voted in favour of those measures which he condemned last year. In an interview in the "Format" he says that 200 million Schillings for the Graz Capital of Culture come from a special funding in 2003, that 75 million Schillings come from special funding for the expansion of the Musikverein. We did the same for the concert hall and also for the theatre in Josefstadt, only: During the last negotiations, the Minister of Finance has still pushed the Secretary of State into the normal budget, and it has been said that it would have been undiscovered checks. We now use a form of funding that makes sense for the cultural sector itself, for the major projects of the cultural sector. Only in the previous year should these two large chunks be left out and financed through special funding, then one would probably have come to a lower savings because these large chunks limited the normal contemporary art budget once again. These are added to the 12 percent. It's going to be very bad if this government explains something to the art sector, then there are savings of 37.7 percent. Each of the cultural creators who is not active in the film field hopes that it will never be declared the focus again, because it will then be declared the focus of saving. Surprisingly, the announcement in the "standard" where you said you were putting deficits in the dance, but at the same time you deleted the planned dance curator and the means for it. It would have been a positive decision to give these funds to dance and a curator. I am sorry that you did not take this measure. I would basically like to add the following to Mr Cap's statement: It is a bit embarrassing, Mr State Secretary, if you do not give any opinion at all on one of the hottest cultural issues, namely the music theatre in Linz, the discussion and discussion in the media or the discussion after this referendum. I must wonder what has become of this proud party ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] She can be taken here in the plenary so to speak in hostage of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (delivering a magazine to the speaker) Here is the opinion of Morak!]] [[On the way to his seat, Abg stumbles. Schwarzenberger over a chair.]] – Treftt Are you so hard to say good-bye? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: I just wanted to help you with information!]] This is actually your art policy positioning: a belly spot! You just left the rain at the Kunsttheater in Linz Pühringer, and you did so that you would like to jump over the chair right here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But I didn't fall!]] I am already aware that you have to make an obstacle course to explain this position: Pühringer is for the music theatre, and you drop him in a vote on this music theatre in the back, are thus a model for 140 000 ÖVP voters who voted against, as has now been pointed out, and have made a significant contribution to the fact that a reasonable arrangement of a modern theatre in Linz by one of your party colleagues does not take place. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: This is the head of state Pühringer!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are thus far from any positioning, you have actually approached the cultural policy image of the FPÖ. In this area you do not want to engage with the FPÖ, you sit in the same boat, which means: at the expense of the artists, at the expense of contemporary art and at the expense of directional, forward-looking projects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] I am disappointed by the Secretary of State that he has not given a position and that he says afterwards in any provincial newspaper that he regrets the outcome of this decision. Ladies and gentlemen! Consider whether other things would not have been more important to the population at the time than to restore the opera. Nevertheless, you have performed the opera, and everyone is proud of this opera house, in Austria and abroad. Internationally, it is one of the best opera houses in the world. Everyone is bragging with the Vienna Opera, but in Linz you are doing in a small-scale way and are trying to mobilize the population. This is quite simple in the art field, because in this situation this is not a majority. But we would not have any cultural monuments, starting from the churches, about exhibitions, museums and art houses, if we were to make plebiscites about such questions over and over again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is a fatal story to play food or basic needs against cultural goods. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But are we already voting on the budget?- Oh, my God!]] I refer to cultural goods as On food, and it would be necessary to work for this as well as for other projects that are equally important in that State. To ignore art and culture means to prevent part of the spiritual food and intellectuality of this country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Zickzack!]] I am aware that this does not matter to you, because that is what you say in all your discussions. You're willing to admit that too. And the naïveness is your guiding principle in the intellectual debate on the cultural field. I just think it's very bad to order the ÖVP, which is getting closer to this model, which no longer allows for its own positioning. You too, Madam Members, have disappointed me very much because you voted against the music theatre. You always want to focus on art and culture, but then you have to do so in the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13459	The next speaker is Mr Finz. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13480	Mr President. High house! The citizen card has been addressed, and fears have been expressed today that the citizen card will create the glass people. – On the contrary: The citizen card will be a necessary facility so that we can create an electronic signature, especially for online authorities. The person concerned must demonstrate by means of an electronic signature with the help of the citizen card that he is the legal person who has access to a specific computer application. This is the first and most important function. If we did not focus this citizen card on a card, we would have the problem as today with credit cards, namely that we would have all the wallets full of cards, for each computer application a private citizen card. This serves the data subject, the data protection law concerned, that he has the security and the guarantee that he alone has access to a specific application. And that also gave rise to a security in electronic payment. They know the incident from the last days when signatures were made by law firm letters and transfers were made. If there were already the citizen card, the transfer could be identified or signed with this citizen card, and it would be ensured that only the authorised person makes the transfer. If we still link this citizen card with an ID card, as a project is currently under way in the Ministry of the Interior, we would have united external identification with internal identification on a card. As an additional question, it is now still to be clarified: Should data be recorded on this citizen card? That is a critical question. That doesn't have to be, but think of possible applications related to the fact that one for health reasons, for risk reasons, because he has a certain allergy, is interested in keeping certain health data on the map so that he can be effectively helped in an emergency. So if you do that, you should do it on a voluntary basis and only to a certain extent. Whether the data protection law needs to be changed will not be seen until you have considered all the questions about the introduction of citizens' cards. We have a good data protection law, the existing applications are sufficient, so this is not necessary at present. One belongs to the following: These questions of security, of legitimate access should have been considered for a long time. For example, we have the ECIS as a procedure which arose in the 1970s and which has, of course, come into existence since then. Of course, the previous Ministers of the Interior should have asked a long time ago: Is access security good? Is it necessary to provide for such organisational, other legal provisions? Is the supervision good? [[Abg. Kiss: One sitting over there! What's his name?]] All of this could have been done earlier and not only today, because certain cases have happened, which have already occurred in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13518	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13539	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. Volksanwalt! Unfortunately, Mr Wittmann is no longer in the hall, but I can already tell you that our cultural policy is not at the expense of the artists. It is naïve to believe that the budget policy, which the Social Democrats in particular have pursued, is not at the expense of the population and, above all, of our children! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] One goal of our government is to have a slender, civil and efficient state, and this includes the question: In which areas is official status necessary? Must a teacher or a doctor be an official? That we have too many people who are unjustly enjoying this official status – we all know that this is not in the sense of civil service rights – proves that our government is doing well to reduce the official status of some professional groups. Ladies and gentlemen! But I am aware of why the SPÖ has not taken any measures in this regard. I would like to quote Rousseau at this point. He said: The more numerous these officials, the weaker the government. – Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! It is now clear to me why you have not taken structural measures in the budget, in social security schemes and elsewhere. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would now like to go into an area close to me, namely the Federal Court of Auditors. For me, party independence and process independence are the essential features of a Court of Auditors. And especially the audit courts as external audit bodies have the advantage of checking an area completely separate from any possible dependence. Internal audit bodies such as internal revisions are partly more difficult, especially when it comes to weaknesses in top management or management. The audit of the Court of Auditors requires not only highly competent auditors but also people with high social competence. Only through skillful questioning and analytical skills can any vulnerability be found and identified. Ladies and gentlemen! These weaknesses can be seen as an opportunity to improve and not just as an opportunity for the opposition. Mr Brix said that it was an opportunity for the opposition to criticise the government and promote populism. When we were still in the opposition, we had it very easy because the ministers of the old government had not taken the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously, let alone implemented it. The fact that it is necessary for the examiners to have a high degree of frustration tolerance if their recommendations are not even observed, I myself remember the time when I was carrying out an examination. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the Greens, I promise you that this government will not give you a chance to make policy with reports from the Court of Auditors. I don't say that mistakes can happen too – of course! – but we want to learn from the mistakes and take the federal accounting court reports seriously and produce corresponding consequences – in contrast to the old government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and all the staff, all the auditors, for their commitment and for the sacrifice of work for this Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] At the same time, I would like to draw attention to two interfaces in the Federal Court of Auditors. The first interface is the coordination of the audit dates and the audit areas between the national auditors and the Federal Court of Auditors. I think it is very important that the federal states – and six federal states already have one – have national accounting courts. But it is also important, especially for those concerned in the various institutions who are being examined that these examination dates are being agreed. I have also experienced more often that the examinations are carried out by the national accounting court and immediately thereafter by the Federal Court of Auditors, that there is not necessarily a coordination of the dates, let alone the audit areas or also an exchange of audit reports. The second thing I want to cut is: There are a large number of intergovernmental organisations financed by the contributions from the budgets of their Member States because of the increasing relocation of state activities in international areas. These international organisations generally have external financial control, which is mainly carried out by the national accounting authorities. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! I would also ask you to report on this or on your possible activities within the framework of the World Organisation, the Supreme Court of Auditors INTOSAI. Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is good, control is better. Let us take every criticism of the positive change of our Republic seriously!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13633	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Please keep in mind the speaking time and all other relevant provisions too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13657	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mrs Hartinger has just said that the liberals had been easy to discuss on Court of Auditors reports earlier, because the members of the former Federal Government had not at all taken care of the Court of Auditors' opinions and recommendations. – This fact claim is wrong! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! That's a political appreciation! That's not a fact claim!]] It is true that, as a former member of the Federal Government, I have very well accepted these questions and tried to follow the recommendations, and that You only had it easy because you have never put particular emphasis on facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13719	Mr Morak, State Secretary, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13741	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! Dear colleague! Ladies and gentlemen! After ten months in this office, I do not want to spread about what I have taken over, an inheritance which it was intended to work out and which was also prepared. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I only remember here the Social Fund for Fine Artists or the over-indebtedness of Section II/2, which has always been shifted to the next budget. I remember that art and art policy are always visible in the context of social policy, and of course art policy also had to contribute to the renovation of state finances. Unlike it is always said, it was only 4.5 percent; I repeat here. The contribution was therefore much lower than all discretionary expenditure of the other departments. I believe that it clearly shows the importance of this federal government's art and culture and politics in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also want to repeat once again that there were no linear budget cuts in my department, but that we looked at every position carefully and that we took into account the productions, the financial needs of the productions, and that we had a very good and constructive dialogue with the advisory committees in the decision-making process. No theater has had to stop its operation due to a smaller budget, and this also applies to other areas of art. And that – I have to say – is not a matter of course in the situations in which I have taken over some theaters; I am thinking only of the theatre in Josefstadt. If it has been repeated so many times in committees, in the public and so on – you know what I'm talking about – that artists boycott this cultural policy, then reality punishes this as much as the assumption that the government would put pressure on oppositional artists under political pressure or exclude them from the grant of subsidies and almost practice a censorship on subsidies. I would like to say very calmly and in great detail: Since I took over and held the function of the State Secretary of art, there is no single case in which an artist or an artist has been reduced or refused a subsidy on the basis of his or her opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Nevertheless, one should think about the relationship between art and politics, and here I remember the great Thomas Bernhard, who said: Austrian cultural creators tend to be a state artist. And Robert Menasse spoke of state artists posing as enemies of state. I also say to you that some authorities may cause a good feeling of making in line with the art-creating policy. Subjectively, I admit, this is certainly a good feeling for politicians. But I also say and ask you to take this into account especially in the first ten months of my work: There are also productive conflicts in the context of the present situation or the situation over the last ten years. I think that was also the opportunity for many of my colleagues in art to engage in a critical dialogue with the government, with the politics of this country, and to derive from this critical dialogue a new value in their artistic work. But, above all, as the Secretary of State for Art, I am also concerned with setting out targeted support measures for the cultural creators and with appropriate framework conditions such as – and this is pre-arranged in the government programme – tax incentives to create new participation models and to open up new opportunities for funding. In this context, let me briefly pass the last, not whole year's revision: tax distribution of income from art and culture to three years, book price fixing. I would like to convey to this House that Austria has been shown at the Frankfurt Book Fair in terms of book pricing in its role as a model. And I remember gratefully – I say it as it is – to the three-party agreement on the social security of artists. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The future measures we are planning – and this also on the basis of a two-year budget that we will decide in the next few months – are, of course, a reason to consider multi-annual funding. It has also been set up by me a working group which will work together with the representatives of Parliament to work out how three years of art promotion will be possible. We are also working on a study on the agility and what happens to the Austrian tax system when art acquisition becomes removable. And we are of course rethinking the real-life sponsorship. In terms of content – even if one or another thinks that this is not meant as I say it – the dance, the new media and, of course, the process of integration of the Central and Eastern European countries in the field of art production, in cooperation with these countries, are important issues. Let me comment on some of the comments made here on the art policy of this Federal Government. I have been called gratefully as a State Secretary – and not as a senior teacher of the nation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I mean, we're just working on a wide-ranging program for the museum quarter, where everyone who has something to show can apply for and can work within this concept on time, as long as it's good and beneficial for the museum quarter. Once again – I said it in the "standard", I said it again and again –: There are no "ownership apartments" in art production! On the subject of film. It was a priority topic for me in the last national conference to act in this field and to act on the heads of state, to take an example of Vienna and to invest more funds in this area. And the music theatre Linz. It would be quite reasonable for one or another colleague in the Art Committee to see "Culture Meeting Point". I gave my opinion and my opinion there. In this sense, I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13846	Mrs Glawischnig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e13867	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning, I would like to make a few more comments on the speech by Mrs Frieser. We as the High House have to make savings of 91 million schilling. And I deliberately say "to do" because it has become quite clear in the debate in the past and also in comparison with other European Parliaments that this House still needs some additional facilities. This House has no constitutional service. This house has no legislative service. This house has very poorly equipped Enquete commissions. This House suffers from the fact that the interface between politics and science, innovation, research is in no way established or institutionalized. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of the comparison with the German Bundestag, where every EU directive is debated for a long time in the specialist committees, where expert hearings are part of the agenda and do not have to be forced into committees with all effort, given these savings of 91 million schillings, it is really very unfortunate that the Federal Government wants to spend 35 million millions this year and next year 50 million for the application of its own policy. I refer to these two figures deliberately, because this is a weakening of parliamentarianism and a weakening of this House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to express my express thanks to the staff of this House for their commitment in recent years. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. One.]] For new problems – we have seen it today on the basis of the BSE debate, or when I come to the arts and culture sector: Copyright, e-commerce – for all these things that are not directly available to us Members on a daily basis, is an interface and a better equipment of the committees and increased expert hearings absolutely essential. Personally, I am very sorry that we can have so few specialist discussions, because it simply has no tradition in this house. Now on my real subject, i.e. art and cultural policy. We've heard a lot about that. Cultural policy, media policy, democracy policy belong to me inseparably. First of all, a few words about the art budget, to "let" the "Church" – under quotation marks – "in the village". Compared to the 2000 estimate, the entire art budget is 2001, which must be admitted to increase by 20 million schilling. Only: The second estimate in 2000 showed a reduction of 11 percent, and this has left irreversible processes in our art and cultural landscape; I will then address some examples in concrete terms. This increase – one has to say quite clearly – brings 5 million schilling more for the Bundestheater and 15 million schilling more for the art section; 14.3 million schilling have come about exclusively through the dedicated ORF fee increase, the remaining 720 000 S concerning payments to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. Why I'm doing this so well now has the following reason: In the meantime, I can no longer see in art promotion a systematic which is in any way related neither to the Government Convention nor to a truly cultural programme other than the one: Political attitude is a criterion of support. Whoever criticizes me doesn't get any subsidies! – I cannot recognize any other groundbreaking or other measures. On the contrary! We have discussed it very often: That in the whole field of film industry, the creative economy, which is always highlighted by Secretary of State Morak, has been dramatically shortened, although there has been a mood of departure in recent years, although this is a market that has been developing, that these plants are now being destroyed again by shortening subsidies, is very unfortunate and is diametrically focused on this requirement in the government agreement to see film industry as the main focus of funding. We discussed in the Committee the question of where, in some way, the focus on "film" has now been reached, but I have not received an answer to this question until today. Especially in the smaller facilities, with the alternative kinos, up to 100 percent deletions can be detected. I would now like to mention a few examples of these cuts. Avalon cinema in Lower Austria: 100 percent reduction, Cinema Paradiso in Lower Austria: 70 percent reduction, Künstlerhaus cinema in Vienna: 100 percent reduction, Austrian Film Institute: 36 percent reduction. These figures speak for themselves in a certain form. I would also like to say that I can't afford to get rid of the fact that verbally one always insists on how important a particular form of art and culture is, but if there is then the political concept cast into budget figures, one can see nothing of it. So we continue to see the savings rate in this budget, although we have new areas, new media, film, I have already said that, also the whole area "Free Radios". What I find absolutely incomprehensible, Mr President-in-Office Morak, is what I simply cannot understand in your argument: Free radios are a regional matter. – That is, if a free radio is operated in Simmering, the purpose is to finance the Simmering District Office. This is entirely beyond the democratic significance of a third pillar in our media landscape. What should this be for an argument: This has only a regional meaning!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is about media diversity, it is about fundamental rights, it is about freedom of expression – a cornerstone of our democracy – and not that it should make the district representation Simmering. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also clear scientific opinion that competition rules alone are not enough to present diversity of opinion and pluralism in the media. And you say it quite openly: You will no longer grant these Free Radios any more major promotion next year. – I find this objectionable and would like to give you an example: The Austrian radio and television consumers pay for the so-called broadcasting fee – not to be confused with the fee we pay for the use of the programmes so to speak – still several 100 million schillings, a three-digit million; 5 S for the radio, 16 S for television per month, only for the use of the equipment; the law comes from 1924. And the revenue – now it's going to be interesting – receives Deutsche Telekom. For me, it is not understandable why it is said that, for budgetary reasons, there are no 8 to 10 million for the promotion of free radios, one has taken over such a heavy heritage from social democracy, without in any way considering other ways of financing for this extremely important, media-politically important, democratically important area. I wonder why a company that has been traded to 25 percent on the stock market continues to receive a broadcasting fee, while free, non-commercial radios in no way receive national, trans-regional funding. – For me, this is a complete contradiction! I would like to add the following to this inconsistency and this clear approach towards critical institutions. There is a very up-to-date request from the liberals regarding "Public Netbase" – I don't know why this institution is so upset you – that has given you a "resistance award". This request clearly establishes the link between funding and its art policy activities. I ask you, Mr Morak: How do you rate such a thing? They say there's no detectable case. There are several detectable cases: There are "Public Netbase", there is the "depot", there are the Free Radios, where it is made clear about this political attitude support policy. And there must be no such thing as public money is in a political legitimacy. These are not private funds from the Secretary of State, but these are funds from the Republic of Austria to be distributed under art and cultural conditions. And in doing so, political attitude as a criterion of support has completely lost nothing at all! That is also a principle of democracy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Morak! I'd like to ask you: What do you think happens to the new media, dance? What does not happen to commercial radios? What will happen in the future in Austria? I believe that the extremely important pillars would also be your concept of a creative economy, and I really wonder where your concepts or ideas are. They've been saying for ten months: New media, dance – there will be priorities as well as film. But so far I have not seen a single line, no fuzerl of a concept for the construction of these areas. I believe that investment in the future is the cultural heritage of the future and that it is important not to produce black holes here, but a serious heritage for future generations. This may also have something to do with sustainability. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: There is a publication of the IG culture, where it was collected how much the savings have taken individual initiatives, and I must say that I am amazed at the dramatic impact of these savings and how many initiatives – mainly in the regional area – are now in the picture. I just mention a few examples: Burgenische Kulturzentrumen: 33 percent reduction, pilot dance: 29 percent reduction, theatre in the Dragongasse: 20 percent reduction, Theater Maerz: 100 percent reduction, I have already mentioned the Free Radios, the movies I have already mentioned; Cult gallery: 70 percent reduction, Grazer Kunstverein: 50 percent reduction, cultural centre in the minors: 60 percent reduction, network time: 50 percent reduction, cosmos: 30 percent reduction, Styrian cultural initiative: 40 percent reduction, free radio attic, et cetera, et cetera. I don't think it's easy to wipe it out and say, I did it! 15 million more schilling! – You have also managed to redefine funds intended for curators, so to speak, for the experimental, for the contemporary, for social policy because you have not been able to enforce the financial sector. They have not been able to present genuinely forward-looking concepts for this area in any way. They continue to act – and this accusation simply remains because it can be proved – according to the principle: The hand that bites me, I won't feed anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14006	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14027	Mr President! Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! Budget creation is a conflict issue in every local authority. It is not just about money, but above all about social policy issues, and they must be put into a budget debate. Of course, everything can be made during a general debate. I am impressed by the contributions of some clubmen, they were really excellent. I have not bothered at all that Mr Gusenbauer has continued his series of success from Sunday here today. That's not a question at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I was also impressed by Dr. Cap, who said that we should think about whether we should continue the budget debate in this form or whether we should not even take the time to think about how perhaps we could find another, a newer, a better, more attractive form. Dr. Cap! I mean, that's a subject we shouldn't push. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] There were also contributions to the history of time. – My esteem, Christof Zernatto, for what personal greatness you have shown here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This was a positive example, but there is also a negative one: Dr. Herbs has stood here and has spoken about Dr. Dolphin in a way that is not only tasteless, but embarrassing. Dr. Herbs! I mean, it would be good before you make such statements to think about what you're saying. That's not responsible for what you did here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Who was the dolphin?]] I have welcomed the statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who spoke today from the Government Bank on the budget and the government on the topic of "regovernment Austria" – in a unique brilliance – and I believe that we can all take this good message home, that it is once again a pleasure to live, work, operate and also save in Austria, because it is a government that deals with citizens' money carefully. That, I think, should also be mentioned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you think again and again that this whole saving family would be terrible and unbearable, I ask you to see it from another side. We have had a loose hand for money in this country in recent years. More than 2,000 billion shillings are missing. This has to be dealt with, and we will all have to make an effort. I'm glad that my party comes in in the same strength. At this point, I can also answer Mr Wittmann's question: What happened to this ÖVP? – It is a state-bearing party that cannot be thought away from the political scene of Austria. This is the ÖVP, Dr. Wittmann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I believe that budgetary reorganisation is really done at a time of full employment. It makes no sense to spend more on a permanent basis than you have. We don't do that privately either. Whether it's the right time or whether it's in one, two years better, it's to say: The first day is the best! That is why I believe that we are going a difficult but right path, a path in which we not only vortex dust, but also leave traces behind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's why: Leave traces so that the following generations can also say: Yes, this government has done a good job for us! I could now refer to some areas, but in view of the advanced time – and all of us want to do our contributions even in the specified time – I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for always caring for us, often until late into the night, in the light of the advanced time. I would like to tell the public prosecutors that 9,000 complaints are a major challenge. It's time for us to think about some things, because it can't be that the complaints are piled up and piled. This has to be dealt with, and it also costs money. In future, Parliament will also have to cooperate. Finally, I would like to make a very special compliment to the President of the Court of Auditors. Mr President. Your contributions, whenever you present them or give them, enjoy high appreciation throughout the country, are appreciated by the citizens. You and all the staff of the Court of Auditors deserve our full recognition, because you are all the corrective for us in politics, and I ask you to continue your work in this agreement with Parliament in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14111	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14132	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! In preparing my contribution to the debate, I was somewhat unsure whether I should resort to the past as far as I was concerned, but a majority of my previous speakers still exceeded me for decades in the review. That's why I'm calmed down: I'll start with the seventies, so decades later. I can read a short article from 1970: "The Federal Government takes on – as is apparent from the latest forecasts of the Advisory Council on Economic and Social Affairs – a difficult budgetary policy heritage. It is not only a deficit of 8.9 billion schilling for the current budget year, but a deficit of between 14.1 and 15.3 billion is forecast by the Economic and Social Council for the 1971 budget year, a deficit of between 17.9 and 20.2 billion schilling for the 1972 budget year. Furthermore, at the end of last fiscal year, a debt of 43.4 billion Schilling was incurred, of which 12.4 billion were foreign debt and 31 billion Schilling were domestic debt." So far as a quote from the Government Declaration for a Modern Austria, given by Federal Chancellor Dr. Kreisky on 27 July. ==References== That was the only thing I think worth mentioning was the German Chancellor of the Social Democratic Party. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But he left us the debt!]] – Those were the others, he just started with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party! These would be figures that the current government would only want to index. Kreisky already called this debt as a heavy budgetary heritage at the time. 1 700 billion debt, 300 billion extra-budget debt and 80 billion ÖIAG debt, as of 1999, and 700 billion in liabilities. – How would Dr. Kreisky have called such a debt if he had already committed a "heavily serious budgetary heritage" at 43 billion? Today we pay almost three times the debt of interest at the time. This interest rate alone is as high as the amount of the indexed debt since 1970. After this trip to the past, I would like to turn to Chapter 06, the Court of Auditors. As the previous speakers have already set out a large number of the discussions in the Committee, I would like to limit myself to a point that has not been discussed today. Several requests to the President of the Court of Auditors have shown that the disclosure required by the Relevant Restriction Act of the salaries of officials and top managers of certain institutions has not yet been made by many in the intended manner. More than three years after the adoption of this law, it will be necessary to carry out the planned review by the Court of Auditors. It is therefore appropriate to ensure that the costs incurred are met by non-compliance institutions and companies. I regret that these organisations and companies are also the Chambers of Commerce and the ORF. The delay in disclosing the charges to be prevented even with the help of the courts makes it quite clear that there are references far beyond a performance-related remuneration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Those in charge in the various organizations and businesses seem to have less skruple when the money is moved in than when the remuneration is disclosed. At this point, the President of the Court of Auditors, the staff for tireless work, would be thanks to the President of the Court of Auditors for the efficient use of resources. The budget for 2001 for the Court of Auditors amounting to 315 million schillings was estimated at the same level as for 2000 and it is likely that these costs will be compared with savings resulting solely from the fact that there is the Court of Auditors' institution and understanding. However, it should not be mentioned at the end that it is often easier to examine in retrospect and show mistakes than to make correct decisions in advance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14183	Mr Volksanwalt Schender is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14204	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A number of ladies and gentlemen have spoken on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office and have also referred to the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office to the National and Federal Council for the year 1999. Allow me to deal very closely with this Parliament report, because it is here in the House and I assume that, if not in December, in January or by February at the latest, a discussion on this report will be possible – even in the presence of my two colleagues who have already had to apologize because they have to comply with other obligations. The public prosecutor's right of initiative has been addressed. Mr Herzegovina has seen it as rather critical, and Mr Kurzmann has assessed it positively. The People's Procuratorate is basically very positive about this position, because we believe that this would provide a somewhat more intensive framework for the suggestions made by the Public Procuratorate annually to the Land Days and to the National Council so that these proposals could also be presented in the committees of the National Council and the seven Land Days. This may not mean that there are as many, just forgotten suggestions from the People's Procuratorate to the various legislators as they now exist. So now dozens of, as I believe, quite important suggestions to the National Council and to the Land Days are untreated and appear to be on our commemorative lists in the reports again and again. We believe that it would be necessary and good if the ladies and gentlemen of the National Council also were to deal intensively with these issues which meet the lawyers in their daily work, because these are serious problems, in which the authorities are quite correct in complying with the laws, but when dealing with the laws, they are always showing that there are unfair hardships in the correct application of these laws – unfair hardships that are probably not wanted by the ladies and gentlemen of the National Council. On the question of Dr. Kurzmann on the distributed legal bases and the lost audit competence of the public prosecutor's office, I have already mentioned in the Constitutional Committee that, in practice, we have gone about dealing with these complaints about distributed legal entities in the way a Member would deal with an intervention. We have therefore almost neglected that we are no longer responsible for the examination of these distributed legal entities, write in a letter to those responsible for the respective legal entity and request a positive, benevolent solution to the problem. I must admit that, at least in my area of responsibility, almost all those legal entities who are now disbursed willfully provide information and, in most cases, prove themselves ready to follow our suggestions. It would therefore, I believe, be only an understanding by the legislator of the willingness of these distributed lawyers to give the public prosecutor the official opportunity to examine complaints of the citizens about these institutions and to have a real competence – as the Court of Auditors has – as long as more than 50 percent of these distributed legal entities are owned by the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is not to be seen, however, that citizens have to deal with the fact that, every year, tens of billions of people have to be contributed to cover the deficit of the Austrian federal railways from taxpayers, but that if one does not agree with the staff, with the timetables, the punctuality of the trains. That's just not to see. I believe that the citizen should also have the opportunity, as long as he takes over the financial liability, to lodge a complaint with the People's Procuratorate on these distributed lawyers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Krüger has dealt with the very controversial issue of the discussion about the examination of case law. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that in the public prosecutor's office at no time – I am a member of this institution for almost twelve years now – a majority in the People's Procuratorate's College has been seeking to examine the case law of our courts. These were only contributions of a single member of the People's Procuratorate, but they were non-majority and did not express the opinion of the Institution People's Procuratorate. We have repeatedly stressed that we are quite satisfied with the current possibilities of examining the People's Prosecution against Justice and that we are satisfied with the current resources. This also refers to the laziness of the dishes. Here, in turn, we can speed up a procedure that has been brought to a standstill very efficiently by means of service supervision by the Minister of Justice and the Presidents of the Court. There, we can allow inefficient negotiation by a judge to be evaluated by means of service supervision and to take appropriate supervisory action. As experience teaches, this means of examining the judge's fairness by means of the supervision of the service is not as efficient as the request for a deadline, which was kindly given to us by the new parliamentary majority of governments, but I would like to stress: We do not need this means because it is far too cumbersome, much too complicated and because the current resources lead to a much more efficient and faster target. Mr. Dr. Kräber has not complained, but he has found that next year the budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office will be 2.7 million schilling higher than this year. That is correct, but is not due to an increase in staff; I would like to stress that. The number of staff has been reduced in 1999 as well as in 2000 – no matter how difficult it has been for this small workforce of 47 and now 45 ladies and gentlemen. We will not increase the number of staff in the future, but, if possible, we will reduce the current level of staffing in the area of administration again. However, I do not think it possible to reduce the test area in human terms, i.e. to reduce the number of audit officials involved in direct appeal treatment. We can no longer reduce the number of those who are best willing to do so to the extent that is now in place. It is particularly important to note that there is also a rise in the number of accidents and levels of function in 2001, the reason for these increases in staff costs and the fact that the public prosecutor's term of office on 30 June 2001 was the same as that of the public prosecutor's office. In June 2001, the budget assumes that all three prosecutors will theoretically have to leave and that appropriate financial precautions will have to be taken for this purpose. Deputies! You have pointed out the objectivity. It's an old child of concern. Although I recognise that almost all the federal states are trying to develop objective guidelines, I see again and again that these objective guidelines are more likely to be seen as a fig leaf, because, at the end of the day, party-politically composed bodies in the District School College and in the Country School College have the decisions to take. It is not a matter of the countries to decide that, but of the National Council, because it is so wanted in the federal constitution that these bodies are composed according to the outcome of the last country election. All nine presidents of the Landdays have already noted with regret that there is this party propaganda, and the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has already pointed out several times that he is very sorry that this partisan proporce at the District School Council and the Land School Council level is necessarily anchored in the Austrian federal constitution. We have taken up this suggestion and would also support the withdrawal of this proportion and a different and much more relevant and professional decision on staff in the school sector. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would just like to thank you very much for the fact that all the ladies and gentlemen who spoke to the People's Procuratorate have found recognized words. I will, of course, pass on these recognized words to my two colleagues, but especially to our employees who do excellent work. This work is the basis of reports which, both from the seven days of the country for which we are responsible, as well as from the National Council lastly in the Constitutional Committee, are always particularly praised for being easy to understand. In this we see a special task, namely to make it as easy as possible to understand all our letters to the citizens and all our representations to the Landstags and the National Council, so that the citizen and also the honourable Member can actually make a renunciation on where the citizen of the shoe is pressing. This should be done with as easily as possible comprehensible words. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14297	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14319	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. President of the People's Procuratorate! A few final comments on art: I'm also going to the history of time. Ten months after the start of the government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer I, Franz Moraksein was appointed as the State Secretary. If you believe the "fire-melting artists" à la Josef Cap, you only see dark times. An objective criticism of these ten months states: We can look back on a dedicated cultural policy, led by an authentic cultural artist Franz Morak, who can be continued as a sovereign draft in 2001. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I remember: No theater had to close. – Ah yes: the accent-theater of the Chamber of Workers – controversy see Antonio Fian in the "Standard". That's all I can say. I think that, in view of the good work at the Burgtheater Claus Peymann in Berlin, other sentiments have also plagued meinl coffee. Franz Morakwar was successful in promoting literature. He forces more literature and less literary functionaries. Thank you also for the initiative for the Ernst Jandl project. As a Viennese, I am pleased that the jazz club "Porgy & Bess" finally saved the former Rondell cinema in the first district. I like how to advertise with a chair purchase for the further financial equipment. To this end, it should be remembered: Since 1992 13 million schillings have been spent on this House under the title of conservation measures. – Nothing really happened! With about the same sum, a modern jazz club can now be set up, and Vienna will become number one again in jazz. I'm glad. Thank you on behalf of the jazz friends! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Morak submits a budget that does not provide for a linear reduction or an increase in imagination. The companies that can afford it are not supported linearly, which are profitable by their own means, do not receive the same support as those who are not. I would invite Mrs Glavischnig to say who has not received any support for political reasons. This is not the case because there are no such cases. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Acute cases – tag "Theater in the Josefstadt" – are rehabilitated together with the municipality of Vienna. Longest repairs are started at the Große Festspielhaus in Salzburg. Ladies and gentlemen! In two shifts the scholarships are expanded and the studio program extended. These are measures that strengthen the policy measures already addressed – artists' social security, book pricing and others – with positive effects as well. Ladies and gentlemen! The film promotion balance does not look as dramatic as it is often presented by previous speakers. I'll bring you a few comparisons. Austria: 230.84 million Schilling, Belgium is famous for its cultural and film promotion: 276 million Schilling, Denmark: 354 million schilling, Finland only 162 million schilling. – So it's not that dramaticly bad if we're honest. It should be noted that the expansion of the European film promotion programme and that a very large increase at European level also means an increased return rate for Austria. A few comments to further speakers: I have to ask Dr. Wittmann if he regrets that the vote on the music theatre in Linz has been as successful as it was – I would have liked it to be – as the SPÖ-Oberösterreich contributed to it. It is not enough to put forward a motion for a resolution five before twelve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The bet can still be delivered, ladies and gentlemen, so that you will remain credible. Ladies and gentlemen! The curators' money has been addressed by a preliminary speaker: In this respect, I agree with the balance sheet of the State Secretary. His predecessor Scholten said it's about cultural communication, and if I make only one big feast with the money and say afterwards: Stop it! – It can also be said "lock with it" today. Finally, I would like to thank Secretary-General Morak. I think the Austrian artists see in him a serious ally, a serious partner and lawyer of their interests. We see in him a partner for the implementation of a fertile cultural and art policy for 2001. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14427	The next speaker was Mr Kiss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14448	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! I would like to add to the remarks made by Christof Zernatto regarding the topic of groups from my very personal point of view as a member of the German-Hungarian minority. In reality, this new federal government has been in the course of this year, specifically since the 4th century. February, has done more for the ethnic groups than it has achieved 30 years of SPÖ chancellors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would just like to list facts far away from all polemics, which can be demonstrated, for example, on three days this year. There was once the 13th. On July 1, the first bilingual town boards were set up in Burgenland. ==References== On August 1st, the government's objective regarding the inclusion of the ethnic groups in our Austrian constitution came into force, and on August 1st. According to the Regulation, the use of the Hungarian language has been regulated in the case of government contacts. Ladies and gentlemen! This 13. July – I was allowed to attend in Großwarasdorf and in Oberpuldorf, my hometown, this day of the solemn revelation of bilingual town boards – was a great and historic day for the peoples of Burgenland, for the Croats and Hungary. After all, we have had to wait for 45 years until the state agreement on this 13th. ==References== It was Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who meant that the disclosure of these town boards – it has been revealed in a total of 51 municipalities in Burgenland 260 local boards of bilingual nature – was the creation of these bilingual town boards – German-Croatian or German-Hungarian – a business card of tolerance and humanity for Austria. It has not only felt the people in this country who belong to the minority, but also the majority population in the Burgenland. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am proud to refer to the 1st. August. It's true what Christof Zernatto said: This one. August can really be seen on the part of the ethnic groups as a holiday in a host of beautiful days. In fact, we have no longer thought that this is enshrined in the Constitution. Nothing less than the wise report has shown that what was done in the National Council of the Republic of Austria for this country and for the minorities has been done with the corresponding political emphasis on the part of the Federal Government. It has understood ÖVP and FPÖ to do something for minorities, which has remained unfulfilled for many decades. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] The report of the wise men also confirms this. I quote from it: The rights of national minorities, for example, have a higher standard in Austria than in the comparable EU countries, thanks to this constitutional provision. – This can be seen, this is the popular policy of ÖVP and FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When in 1983 as the mayor of Oberpuldorf in the municipal council of the municipality of Oberpuldorf I made the request that the state treaty be finally fulfilled, we would like to have bilingual topographical inscriptions – by the way we have adopted a unanimous municipal council decision – the answer I received from socialist German Chancellors, to whom I have been pilgrimd in the truest sense of the word, was always the same: We'll see. We'll make an effort. We're going to bring something together. – In reality, it took 17 long years for us to finally implement the decision in Oberpülendorf until the end of 1983, and I am glad that this happened under Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel and Vice-Cancellor Susanne Riess-Passer. This is something that needs to be said at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is permeable!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I conclude by stating that the ethnic groups are winning through this new federal government, through the cooperation of ÖVP and FPÖ. They are therefore winning because issues are being attacked that are very serious, issues of which we, members of the minority, know that they are approaching us, and we know that we can feel well in this country in the majority population. I am convinced that this Federal Government will have many more good litters for minorities in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14523	The President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14544	Mr President. My dear Secretary of State! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! In the course of this debate, the Court of Auditors has been praised by all the political groups, and I should like to thank you very much for this, since I regard this praise as a proof of confidence in the work of the Court of Auditors and the accuracy of the way it has taken to provide quality work and to provide high-quality reports to this House. Of course, it is primarily the auditors who have done this high-quality work, and I will naturally pass on to them the praise that has been expressed to them today. It seems to me to be all the more justified that the Court of Auditors' auditors have received praise, because the work they have to do has to be done under ever more difficult conditions, and more and more work will be done on them. In particular, I should like to address the national area of the Court of Auditors' activities, in which more work has been done in recent years for the Court of Auditors, such as, for example, and in particular, in connection with the implementation of the Paying Restriction Act, which is a task which the Court of Auditors of course had to undertake, but which was aware of the difficulties it would bring with it. In fact, it has also been shown that, in connection with the preparation of the first report on income relations in the state-owned industry or in the whole of Austria, and also in connection with the preparation of the report on those persons who receive more than 80 000 S per month from public funds, there has been a great deal of difficulty in refusing to examine, which ultimately also had to lead to the appeal of the Constitutional Court. As has already been said by one of my previous speakers, the need to appeal to the Constitutional Court has not been avoided. At the same time, however, it is also linked to the fact that further activity and reporting are excluded from the Court of Auditors in this year. Not only does the national sector create new work for the Court of Auditors, there are also new fields of activity in which it has had to prove itself in recent years. I am pleased that Mrs Hartinger has also referred to this area and this field of activity of the Court of Auditors, because for many auditors of the Court of Auditors it is linked to an insignificant additional work, both in terms of the work in Europe and in relation to the performance of the Court of Auditors as the General Secretariat of INTOSAI. In particular, in the European field, I should like to stress that not only the new tasks related to the European Union, but also many new tasks relating to contacts with the courts of the new states in the East, have presented a new challenge to the Court of Auditors. Without exaggeration, I can say that the training activities carried out by the Court of Auditors for the new accounting courts in the East have made a very decisive contribution to the fact that these new accounting courts have been able to bring about the quality and level of accounting in the West and that we have always been signalled by the new accounting authorities of the states in the East. [[General condolences.]] We have also intensified contacts with the newly created national accounting courts in Austria, both as regards the coordination of audit programmes and joint training. I think I can say that, in the interest of both the Court of Auditors in Vienna and the national accounting authorities in the countries, this cooperation is for the benefit of public financial control in Austria. The Court of Auditors' expectations of developments in the coming year will be seen from the perspective of the budget figures for the coming year. For a long time, the Court of Auditors has not been able to expand its budget differently from the past. We have to take over the budget figures of the previous year and have had to take reductions in actual expenditure in view of the increase in staff expenditure. In this way, the Court of Auditors has also made its contribution to the consolidation of the budget, as has all the departments or many other departments. However, I would like to stress that further restrictions will no longer be the responsibility of the Court of Auditors in the years following 2001. Despite this, the Court of Auditors, I can guarantee, will be able to carry out its activities in the same quality next year. In this context, I should also like to thank the Court of Auditors for their contributions to the political groups. I think I can say that in recent months, cooperation between the political groups of this House and the Court of Auditors has been extremely good both in the Court of Auditors and in plenary sessions and that the atmosphere has been extremely constructive. I should like to express my express thanks to the political groups for this. Finally, I should like to make a request. I should like to ask all the political groups in this House to continue to support the Court of Auditors in the implementation of its recommendations. It has referred a number of Members to the Court of Auditors' recommendations which have not yet been implemented and which have yet been implemented by the executives. For example, I can recall Mrs Binder, and I am pleased that the honourable Members had such an interest in the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and in their implementation. I see from the interest of Members in the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations that there is a common relationship with the Court of Auditors, for it clearly has the same interests in this regard. If there is a balance of interests between the National Council and the Court of Auditors, I am convinced that a common success will continue in the future – a success that does not benefit the National Council or the Court of Auditors in the outcome but benefits the taxpayer for whom we all have to carry out our activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14612	As the next speaker, the honourable Member's head is mentioned. The clock is set to 4 minutes, as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14633	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Estimated Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! At the end of this debate, allow me to make a few basic remarks on the budget in general. In Austria, we have one of the highest tax rates in international comparison, and today's taxes are logically the outflow of yesterday's debt. These taxes, these debts, these interest rates due to these debts are simply and simply a risk to the location, to our economic location in Austria and thus, finally, also a great risk to employment in Austria. Everyone in this country admits to this responsibility – no, unfortunately I must say: almost everyone. Many are also willing to take part in this responsibility. Many groups of people are willing to share this responsibility and the repair of this situation, but I am most amazed that our former coalition partner wants to know very little about this responsibility and, despite the findings and also the admonitions of all economic scientists, all those responsible, it is not necessary and is not prepared to take a real reorganisation step. I say quite openly: The Austrian economy has to bear the bulk of the burden of rehabilitating today's situation. The economy is also committed to making this contribution if we take advantage of the opportunity of this temporary financial contribution to carry out structural reforms in this country, to make our budget more sustainable – not only in the short term through these one-time measures – but also to create scope so that structural reforms can actually work. We know this takes time for them to develop their effect. But we also need to use the time and these measures in order to have more scope for action to be taken offensively for our economic location and thus also for the employment site of Austria. We in the economy trust that the promises made by the Austrian Federal Government on several occasions, namely in 2003 at the latest, will also use these scopes to carry out those reliefs for the economic location – for example, in the case of additional wage costs or also in the field of technology offensives – which will help to secure Austria's economic and employment location not only in high economic times like now, but in the long term. It's clear: Only a reasonable and good location policy is also a good employment policy in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14675	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the Special Rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote, and we will vote first of all on the advisory group I of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes Chapters 01 to 06 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. The Members have Dr. Kostelka and Mag. Stoisits asked for a separate vote with regard to Chapter 02. First of all, I will vote on the financial approaches to be taken by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the advisory group I, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the financial legal approaches of Chapter 02 in 310 of the Supplements in the version of the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining, not yet agreed, financial approaches of the Advisory Group I – these include Chapters 01, 03 to 06 – of the Federal Proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the advisory group II of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes Chapters 10 and 13 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the part of the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group II, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment to the proposal for a proposal 1/1008. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the Advisory Group II in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group II, which have not yet been voted on. This includes Chapters 10 and 13 of the Federal Proposal in 310 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 370 of the Supplements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign for their approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Consultative Group II of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier and comrades on measures to improve the level of data protection in Austria. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Advisory Group XIII Chapter 70: Public performance and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14811	We are now negotiating the Advisory Group XIII: Public performance and sport. An oral report was rejected by Mr Special Rapporteur. The first speaker to speak is Mr Pendl. Your speaking time will be set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e14837	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The current budget for 2001 will be the biggest job destruction process – without any social support! – started. This is the first step in the programme agreed by the two government parties, ÖVP/FPÖ, that they want to remove 11 000 planning sites from the areas of public administration and executives. 4 000 planning posts want to complement or privatise this government, and as a corresponding arrangement in the field of teachers, you have already put in place measures in the budget accompanying law by the coalition. All of this means – and I repeat this – that in this legislative period 15 000 jobs of teachers are "gone"! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it is a reduction of 30,000 planning posts – all without the slightest social support! Several members of this Federal Government do not even consider it necessary to negotiate social plans for individual areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially at a time when "small" colleagues will lose their jobs, a Ministry of Minis-Ministry has been created, cabinets and sections have been created, and many departments in other departments are larger than this ministry. I do not need to mention here that "of course" all employees in the individual ministerial offices have the highest job assessment and therefore payment. Ladies and gentlemen, especially dear friends from the ÖAAB! It will be "loving" for you – I said it here last week – if you will have to explain all this to your colleagues in the coming weeks and months. I'm looking forward to it! And the situation will not get better even if you try to present it differently! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: The arguments do not get better, even if you repeat them so often!]] For weeks and months, we have heard from you statements on "Administrative reform". A number of departments commissioned private companies to draw up proposals for administrative reform. [[Call the ÖVP: That's good!]] It's about orders in millions, I'll tell you about that. It looks like the public officials have to explain to these private companies how to organise a public administration at all! – And all this please in times when alleged savings are announced! In this context, it should also not be mentioned that the government indicates to Austrian taxpayers expenditure on advertising campaigns of a few million schillings. Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol is not here again – last week I also had this "nothing" in my contribution to the debate. [[Abg. Grossruck: Where's Mr. Gusenbauer?]] He has spoken here very much and often of "new social partnership". . I would just like to repeat here, Mrs Vice-Chancellor – you know the letter from Mr Neugebauer, President of the GÖD, that is not a red one – that the GÖD is asking the Federal Government to comply with agreements. With the so-called new government and with the "new social partners" it is really: Without negotiations, you will be presenting your government proposals here in the House without an evaluation of the legislation. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Vice chancellor has nights...!]] Yes, yes! Mrs Colleague, not only tell me, but tell everyone else! Tell this especially to those who always say: these "evil reds"! I would remind you now of a very clear majority relationship: Two-thirds majority by the ÖAAB, and in this body, decisions were taken per year in combat action, because these colleagues are so "happy" with you from the ÖVP! That's why: a lot of pleasure in the next weeks and months! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] At the time, under former federal governments, I was really very grateful for the fact that no cancellations were made at that time. – But now you can read exactly what members of the government have said in recent days: Terminations are possible. I must say that you of the ÖVP do not even stick to what we – and that is not so long ago – have agreed with each other! I am not even talking about your so-called differentiated view, because you are saying: It's not a termination! – What is this really different if thousands of temporary service contracts are concluded, for example, in the field of schools?- Oh, my God! – That’s right, that’s not a formal termination, just: The poor colleague, the poor colleague, however, has no job! I hope that we will agree on this. As one now says, it is not the question, but the fact is that thousands of colleagues will lose their jobs! Their "new governance" means that, without waiting for the outcome of the negotiations, without any review procedures, socially unbalanced government documents are introduced here in the House. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖAAB, even if this hurts you so much, I would like to remind you: Mr. Dr. Khol has referred to the "evil red trade unionists" several times today, and in this context I can say to you: The GÖD is, as it were, two thirds of your "color", but there were also unanimous decisions there. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who is "eurs"?]] Therefore: ==References== December will be a joint ÖGB event; the Christian trade unions have voted in favour! And if someone says these are "chaots", then you can only answer it: Then you call your own people "chaots"! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As I said, It will become interesting how you will explain to your people from the ÖAAB! In any case, the fact is: This is not a "red" event, nor is it any of the FSGs, gentlemen of the ÖAAB, but it will be a joint, extra-party event. And here you should not pretend from the ÖVP here, as if it were loud "chaots", which has already been tried to present here several times. If even more Austrians – all are invited to do so! – join this rally, then other than trade union members will be there. However, to say so in principle, it would be "chaots", that is really to reject! This extra-party rally was decided by the members of the FCG! That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another one: Those who followed media reports on the weekend could see that the trade unionist, who was still praised in the budget committee by Mr. Federal Chancellor Schüssel, namely GÖD Chairman Fritz Neugebauer, who, as German Chancellor Schüssel said at the time, had a lot of understanding for the Federal Government: [[Abg. Großruck: (a edition of the "Kurier" kept up to date) Read today!]] How promised, so broken! And Mr Neugebauer also said that this government was being invited to return to the negotiating table and to reflect on the social partnership culture. – That was not the statement of a red trade unionist, but the statement of the chairman of an FCG-dominated trade union. No matter if you like it or not, dear friends of the ÖAAB: That's the reality! Even today in our trade union – again, it was unanimously! – decided that the AHS colleagues will be working for a day when it is no different. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Painful!]] – Again, not just a decision of "reds", but one of Christian trade unionists! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The colleagues in the public service – and I believe this should be out of dispute – provide excellent services, in the interests of our home country, in the interests of the Republic of Austria and all Austrians, and you should not make them the ball of your politics! . From our point of view, there is a lot to be said on this issue. In any case, we from our group cannot give our approval to this part of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15047	Mr Reindl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15069	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As with the budget debate in May of this year, nothing positive or constructive can be heard about the united left opposition here in this House. [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] Mr Gusenbauer of the Social Democrats, the "Great President", spoke today of a "feeling" in economic policy and said that the budget was socially not balanced. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's not him!]] My previous speaker, Mr Pendl, said that the same thing. Mr Gusenbauer said that the central elements of the welfare state would be dismantled. Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen from the Greens said today that the risk of poverty would be significantly increased, nothing goes further in the ecological field, and the vision is missing. – Ladies and gentlemen from the left of this house! The development of the government budget over the next few years – without new debt! – will teach you a better person. Not exactly simple were the salary negotiations conducted by Mrs. Vice Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer with the Public Service Trade Union. – Your union, Mr Pendl, the social-democratic trade unionists, has spread true horror reports throughout Austria before the salary negotiations in autumn of this year. This was particularly bad with the safety executive. About this stood in a leaflet, sent to all the security services throughout Austria, all that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said was: replacementless removal of the child allowance, replacement-free removal of the fare, replacement-free removal of the food marks and so on! . All claims, ladies and gentlemen, that have only led to a wave of unrest, sometimes just a panic situation throughout the civil service. Ladies and gentlemen! Nothing – nothing at all! – these absurd claims have occurred. The children's allowance remains fully preserved, the cost allowance is not deleted, and there is only a cancellation of the food marks for officials in the highest grades, which is why no executive officer can do so. However, these false claims by the Socialist trade unionists have not really taken action anyway. And now it's quiet about these trade unionists to become these personnel representatives. No one asks them for anything; they suffer from the greatest loss of trust and could actually rest. Mrs Vice-Chancellor has not even thought about these alleged malaises. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer has, rather, committed herself to those officials who have only a small or medium income, and she has always stressed the public service positively and especially appreciated the high qualifications of employees. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Sad: Then why do the teachers strike?]] Mr Pendl! For nights there were salary negotiations, and they were not completed with percentages, but with a base amount of 500 s per staff. This represents a percentage of about 3.2 percent for lower incomes and an increase of about 0.45 percent for higher incomes. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a solution that for the first time does not blatantly prefer officials at higher levels, but it represents a fundamental change in practice so far. This marked a marked sign in the direction of low incomes by Mrs Vice-Chancellor also in the public service. High house! A novum for the security executive is also the fact that Mrs Vice-Chancellor has conducted separate negotiations with all trade unions: It has negotiated with the Action Community of Independent and Free Trade Unions, as well as with the Group of Christian Trade Unions, and of course it has also conducted negotiations with the Group of Socialist Trade Unions – despite strong protests by the trade union of the public service, which has repeatedly meant: We're not going to be divided! – The trade union of the public service obviously does not want to realize that the executive service is a very specific service and an official is not an official. In this way, it will be possible – that is what is necessary – to create a separate right of service for the security executives in Austria in the future and, if it is necessary, to oppose the resistance of the public service trade union, especially, of course, the group of social-democratic trade unionists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] The security executive does not want to be represented largely by teachers in the union, but wants to express its own concerns! And that's their right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, the safety executive had the opportunity to do so for the first time. Mrs. Vice chancellor! As an executive official, I thank you on behalf of my colleagues for your willingness to negotiate and for the commitment to keep and manage it that way in the future. In any event, the entire public service will continue to be ready to make its contribution to an orderly state budget. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The new government has taken an important step towards rehabilitating state finances with this budget. The reorganisation of state finances is not self-evident, but rather a responsible action for the next generations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15161	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15182	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Today we are talking about public performance, a very up-to-date occasion. Newspaper headlines, public service threats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] - If you don't want to listen: There's the door, you can go out if it bothers you to speak here at the speaker's desk! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're funny when you say he should go out to the door!]] Where's the "freak"?- Oh, my God! He's naughty! Do you know what he said? – I shouldn’t talk so much – after my second sentence! This "frequentness" appears to be in the area of FPÖ – and not with others. If you don't want to discuss, you just have to go out. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You say he should leave the hall!]] If I hear about him after my first sentence: Don't talk so much! from my point of view, the naughtiness is clearly on this side, but okay, what is it? [[The speaker points to the banks of the Freeman]] Listen, you won't want to listen anyway, maybe somewhere else. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tolerance!]] Threats of strike in the public service, something that is rather new in this form and especially in this strength – Mr Pendl has already carried out, as we are talking about inter-group action. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I thought that one could now look at this matter again and also imagine how the remuneration in the public service is looking at the moment. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why is tolerance an insanity for you?]] The aim of this Federal Government is: Putting down! – as if that were a special qualitative goal in public service! Any report that the salary increase in the public service is below the inflation rate is referred to as "a huge success". One could also look at services in the public service from a different perspective. There will also be a question of comparing whether the benefits, whether the salaries, whether the remuneration paid in the public service is adequate – or not. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This would be different from just talking about savings. And I would like to see that once, for example, the famous "high" teachers' salaries. As an example, let us take the AHS teachers who are currently being spoken of: These start with an entry level of 22 900 S gross. [[Abg. Neudeck: 14 times for eight months!]] I hope that this will be included in the Minutes, which Mr Neudeck said in an interlocutory call: [[turned to a staff member of the Stenographenburo]] "14 times for eight months!" – Mr Neudeck, this will once again "rejoice" the teachers who, as you think, have been on holiday for four months. After ten years there are 27 600 S grossto. If one compares this with wages in the private sector, then one could say that this is not really decent references and... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Mr Wattaul! I don't know if you understand. We're talking about academics here, and academics usually have a certain reference when they get in! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you think that academics in the private sector are also rising at 22,000 s and feel that this is a fine salary? – It's a little different there! [[Abg. Wattaul: You don't know yourself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] It's quite interesting: I have asked Finance Minister Grasser about a phenomenon in which we are of the same opinion that there has been a misunderstanding in the public service between initial and final remunerations and a pension system, which is relatively high. I note that we do not consider it particularly useful that if you have a relatively high need if you build up a existence, you get very modest salaries and wages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] The officials apparently don't work in your opinion, that's also interesting! It doesn't make sense, as I said, if you get very modest salaries at the beginning, but if you already have a certain lifestyle and standard, you really get higher references. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] I suggest we take a look at the flattening of the salary curve. [[The speaker shows a curve diagram.]] Minister! You sit behind me, you have to look in the other direction! The flattening of the pay curve has been announced by you in the Government Convention. But so far I have not noticed anything about it! The curve may be flattened, because there is less to it below, but that is another form of flattening that we are not talking about now! I asked Minister of Finance Grasser at a Question Time this spring, what he thinks about the flattering, and he has given an information similar to what you are calling in between now! – On my question as to whether to raise the initial salaries and then increase them less quickly, he said: "I agree with you on the development of the salary curve. I do not quite agree with you, if you say that there is a obviously low entry rate for young teachers, which then increases very much, because I believe that what is currently being paid to entry salaries for young teachers is quite a state salary compared to the salaries in the economy with the requirements there." [[Abg. Wattaul: Look at you!]] You probably know that from the Minister of Finance! That's really amusing! 22,000 S entry level for academics is a "real salary" for FPÖs! Okay, let's just leave it that way. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] In order to increase 500 S, which has been decided as a fixed amount for 2001 and to increase by 0.8 percent for 2002 with post-negotiations, you can now stand as you want. But it is clear that this is clearly below the inflation rate, and that means a real wage loss in the public service. You seem to want to go through that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We can also look at this in an international comparison: The OECD studies are lovingly quoted by you, especially if you can prove how few teachers – for example – work. However, one could also look at a comparison of income, which is also included in it. Let's look at the comparison with Germany! By way of conversion – one can now of course discuss whether these statistics really apply a hundred percent, but let's take that as a benchmark – it turns out that teachers in Austria have less annual salary than teachers in Germany when they get started by $8,000. After 15 years, the difference is even higher, there are 12 000 dollars, and only at the end of the deal do Austrian teachers come to 3 000 dollars more per year. In view of this, I think that the system in Germany is much more intelligent: The entrance salaries are higher, do not rise so much, and this will probably be offset by the pension system. Then, when people need the money, they also get appropriate financial resources, and I think that this is an intelligent solution. We should come there to an even greater extent! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say a sentence on the annoyance of the AHS teachers. I now have the tomorrow "curie" in front of me. I very much appreciate Mr Thonke from the "Kurier": It's really amazing how it manages to carry the things that are decided on – and I am now addressing Mrs Gehrer – in a form that is simply not true. – It’s about the famous class board scheme. That's what we see. It is decided that 20 000 S per year will be paid, and that is undoubtedly what we agree with. However, it is also decided that the previous remuneration in the form of a reward of 9 000 S will no longer be paid. However, nowhere does it say that this would clearly be diverted according to all mathematical rules, which means that instead of up to 9 000 S you will get 20 000 S, but not more by 20 000 S. – As long as Mrs Gehrer spreads such things on his own again and again, she is simply not credible, for the subjects in the schools know of course that it is different. If measures are announced in this way, you need not be surprised that people are not willing to accept information about the teacher reduction as they are announced. You should call the numbers open and be honest, then you can probably return to a reasonable culture of conversation!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15402	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15424	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Ministry of Public Performance and Sport is a key area for the achievement of the Federal Government's budget objectives. One of the objectives of this Federal Government in the course of the administrative reform is to save 15 000 planned posts in the Federal Government by 2003, namely 4,000 of them through outlays and 11 000 of them by non-retiring posts. Casting into figures means the savings target by 2002: 11 billion schilling! This is an ambitious programme and an essential cornerstone of the success of this federal government. The objective of a federal government to implement a administrative reform is actually contained in any government programme. There are also projects to be undertaken, and I am very optimistic that this objective of genuine and substantial administrative reform will be achieved this time. What does the hope or even the certainty give me that the structural changes will actually come about this time? – First of all, I believe that the time is right. Every real reform also requires the necessary pressure of decision and suffering, and this pressure of decision is here because the resources are accordingly scarce. Secondly, the dictatorship of empty cash registers also requires the necessary flexibility and innovation to meet the objectives and challenges of a modern state. Thirdly, there are both international discussions and models – for example, we only need to look at Switzerland or Germany – as well as nationally the relevant preparatory work for an administrative reform. I would like to refer to the working group of experts from the areas of administration, science and the economy set up by Mrs Vice-Chancellor, and I would also like to mention the symposium on administrative reform, which was commissioned on behalf of and under the honorary protection of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor on 25 May. In October, the experts invited by the Federal Government presented appropriate approaches and approaches. What else is optimistic about me? – The successes already achieved by the Federal Government, namely the negotiated pension reform, which is a milestone, and the moderate wage round, which was negotiated in a good social partnership atmosphere. It was difficult, however, to reach an agreement in the end, and there are also agreements that are indispensable in modern service law and labour law, such as flexible working hours. Austria – like other countries, of course – needs a modern and flexible personnel policy. This is therefore necessary because we need motivated and well-trained, committed employees in the state in order to be able to meet the diverse challenges of public administration. And efficient management is an important location factor. Ladies and gentlemen! There are them, the highly specialized, committed and motivated employees in the public service: You're worth it – and I'd like to ask you to do that! – an objective and content-based discussion on administrative structures and modern service law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15473	Mrs. Dr. Riess-Passer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15494	Mr President. High house! I would like to refer to what Mr Pendl said in his speech and what I would like to give him my consent: He said that agreements must be complied with. Mr Pendl! I'll be right there with you. I would like to mention some of this agreement, which we have concluded with the Public Service Union in a difficult process in itself, but ultimately in a constructive climate, here again and find out what it actually was about, because what you have presented is not what was stated in this agreement. In this agreement with the Public Service Union, we have agreed to a fixed amount of 500 S in the salary agreement 2001 and 2002 for the coming year 2001. This measure, as Mr Reindl has already said, explicitly serves to ensure social security, namely the promotion of small and medium-sized incomes, and does not produce exactly what you, Mr Brosz, have said, namely a salary at the rate of inflation. On the contrary: The people involved in small and medium-sized incomes receive more than the inflation rate, but I do not assume that you represent the high level of civil servants here, but remain below. I not only think that this is socially acceptable, but it is also right and just! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pendl! In addition, we have reached an agreement with the Public Service Trade Union, which includes the participation of the Public Service Union in a comprehensive administrative and structural reform, and will also contribute to the separation of 11 000 planning posts in the course of this administrative and structural reform and, in parallel, to adequate savings in the field of education, which I will then address even further. We have also agreed in this agreement that from 2002 onwards, there will be opportunities to implement flexible service time models, including needs-oriented annual work models, which is also in the interests of employees. Today, increased opportunities for smooth-time work are not only available in the economy, but of course also in the public service in the interests of both the service provider and the employee, and this will now be negotiated in a regional manner for each sector. Mr Brosz! They have addressed the principle of seniority as regards income. – I share your opinion: Of course, the remuneration structure of the public service in this form is neither fair nor performance-oriented at present. Therefore, part of our agreement with the Public Service Trade Union is that all income in the future should be reviewed and re-regulated from the points of view of performance, reliability, reasonableness, income transparency and the principle of seniority. The social component of income, which we have, of course, also taken into account in this agreement with the Public Service Trade Union, is that the food subsidies are for all "all-in-relations", and this is also a measure of social justice, because it is not to be seen that institutions that have actually been created under a social aspect should benefit those who truly do not need it from their level of income. I am glad that the trade union finally gave its assent on this issue in the light of very difficult discussions, as well as in the absence of the death penalty for officials already in retirement. . I believe that this agreement has made a constructive and essential contribution to structural and administrative reform both to the public service trade union and to the employees in the public service sector. However, I have no understanding of this – and I say that clearly – that now strikes are announced again, after all these questions have not only been negotiated with the trade union, but of course the teacher sector has also been negotiated with the teachers' trade unions. In view of this, I do not understand that AHS teachers now announce a strike again. Mr Brosz! The entry salaries for young teachers who tried to empathize you were not the trigger of the strike. The trigger of the strike was rather – and this has also been clearly said by the trade union – that class boards now need to teach an hour more. Mr Pendl! Ladies and gentlemen, who support these strikes! I wish you a lot of pleasure when you explain to the public that it is a reason for a strike that class board members now have to stand in class for no more 19 hours, but 20 hours! If you, Mr Brosz, have referred to the OECD comparison and have referred to the German model as particularly intelligent, I agree with you. But you should also have said that the teaching obligation in Germany is a few hours higher than in Austria. If you are in favour of this model, I am entirely in favour of it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In any event, I find it unreasonable that such actions, i.e. strikes and combat measures, take place during the schooling period. This is a responsibility to both students and parents! The tomorrow issue of a daily newspaper says: "In the 400 schools, the students affected by the 185 000 do not find a place to stay. The 20,000 teachers are there, but supervision is not planned. However, if knowledge-loving people get lost in the institutions, they will even be denied entry at some." What permission it has, you have to explain to your parents! If both parents are employed, present them from today to tomorrow with the situation that they do not know who is caring for their children. This is a irrational process! In addition, Mr Pendl, and all your colleagues from the trade union, I tell you that these constant extortion attempts have never fallen on fertile ground by threatening combat measures or strikes in this government and will not fall in the future. We won't let you blackmail us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pendl! Of course, your criticism and criticism of your colleagues would have been much more credible if you had criticized not only the government and what we are planning, but also some of your own proposals! That's what I've missed to this day. To this day, I am always hearing that you also want an administrative reform, but not the way the government wants to do it. – That is why I would ask you to say how you would like it to be, because such proposals are missing to this day completely! Of course, administrative reform is much more than budgetary savings. Rather, an administrative reform means that there is more citizen orientation and that effective management will be introduced using modern administrative management tools to make management faster, more efficient and cost-effective. These structural reforms have taken place in this Federal Government, and we are on the right track. We have already made significant progress with all the budget consolidation departments, including external consultants. In spring 2001, a proposal will be put forward for all regions implementing budget-effective restructuring measures. A working group has already prepared an evaluation of the previous distributions and the success factors for future distributions in the summer of this year. This programme is also on the right track. A task reform commission with external and international experts, of course, deals with issues which are, in fact, crucial, which are the key tasks of the state, which and in which areas we need the state at all, which is no longer necessary and timely, which is offered double and multiplely, and which we therefore refrain from in the administration in order to achieve corresponding effects in terms of efficiency. In addition, the financial compensatory negotiations with the countries – and I would also like to say this positively – have agreed that, together with the local authorities, we will draw up proposals on double and multiple tracks in the context of the debate on the state reform in order to achieve savings of 3.5 billion schilling. Quality improvement is the condition of any administrative reform, and, of course, there are already projects in this context that are in the right direction, such as the reorganisation of the federal budget and accounting system through the use of the SAP software library, which will ensure that, in the future, cause justice is due to a reasonable cost burden, that operational accounting is introduced and therefore a significant improvement of the process organisation is ensured. – This is a crucial contribution to administrative innovation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== In May 2001 the first place to implement this project will be gradually followed by all other departments, and this implementation will be completed by the end of 2002. The same applies to the harmonization of procurement, with at least a volume of 35 billion schilling and a ten percent savings in this area. So you see that things are very good on the way. I would very much like you to make such contributions and ideas, if you have them, instead of criticizing the things that we have set in motion and which are necessary! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is particularly important in this area to note what the citizen feels about the administrative and task reform, because that is crucial. Not only can it be asked what the Minister of Finance feels about it, but it must be clarified in particular what the citizen feels about it. – In this respect too, we are on a very good path with the "help.gv" system, which is now to become a project of online completion by a purely signpost through the official channels. It will bring a decisive simplification to the public that, in the sense of the one-stop shop principle, he has only one point of contact and can also do his official channels online. This not only brings considerable time savings, but also significant cost savings. Pilot projects in the countries and communities are still under way this year. In the city of Salzburg, in the Marketsgemeinde Seekirchen am Wallersee, in the municipality of Wieselburg, in the town of Tentweg and in the district headquarters Zell am See will be able to be done online this year, and these are the projects that we must continue to carry out accordingly. Mr Pendl! Mr Brosz! I also ask you to note that it is not enough to limit itself to the income aspect in the Federal Service with regard to citizen orientation and employee orientation, but that this also means that justice must be produced, not only within the system of public service employees, between contract staff and pragmatic officials, but above all between public service employees and those in the private sector. Today, when we come to an office as citizens, we cannot distinguish whether a pragmatic official or a contract worker is sitting on the switch; the only difference is pay and similar directives. I therefore believe that it would be good for Austria to take an example in Switzerland or also in the Federal State of Vorarlberg, where a very forward-looking step has been taken with the abolition of Pragmatisation, ensuring that modern labour law applies equally to all professional groups, without any special arrangements in particular areas which have no more right at all. Overall, I have undertaken for the public service that we are moving towards the same rules of play for all in the labour market, both in employment law and in pension law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Pendl! I would like to correct something you say time and again about the staff in my ministry, although you have known for a long time that it is not true: I have repeatedly explained in the Committee that your claims do not agree that we have not inflated the apparatus, that my Bureau is by far the smallest Of course, we do not have the smallest section in the Federal Service – and you know that exactly, but I would also like to point it out here. The smallest section is available in the area where you are trade union representatives, but it doesn't bother you, because it's about your employees who represent you trade unionally. There is a section with six employees and four departments. – So if you are in favour of dissolving such small units, start once in the area in which you are responsible! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We solve the Pendl!]] Allow me to conclude by commenting on the second area of my department responsibility, namely sport. I'll try to make it short. I probably do not have to emphasize the social, economic and educational importance of sports, which we are all aware of. In the Government Declaration and also in the 2000 to 2002 budgets, we have ensured that no cuts are made in areas that are directly effective in sport. We have set priorities in our budget, especially in the promotion of young people, because I consider this to be a very central area of sport promotion in Austria. In this context, we have a problem which is proven to be a problem, and that is why excellent top performances at the Olympic Games cannot be concealed either. In the sense of more concentrated, more efficient and more successful performance centres, we must undoubtedly be active. The parallel training in a sport and for the profession is well solved in the area of winter sports in Austria. This is still missing in other areas. There is a need for re-examination in this respect. Trainer and functional training is also a focus of my budget policy as well as the promotion of the disabled, which we finally want to put on a legal basis, because I think it is unreasonable that we should go and beg again from year to year. Disabled sport promotion must finally be put on a legal basis, especially in view of the great achievements that are being achieved in this area, as we saw at the Paralympics this year – there were 15 medals. [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] The main criticism is that sports restructuring and the corresponding budget and promotion policies are being pursued, not by athletes, but not by officials, but by those who are afraid to lose influence in sports. – I say here again in all clarity: For me, politics and party politics have lost nothing in sports, neither in associations nor in associations. That is something that is actually singular in this form in Austria. In view of this, I believe that we must detonate the structures and reorganise them in such a way that there is more efficiency and transparency in terms of support and less political influence. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to conclude by thanking all those who, in cooperation with my resort, have contributed significantly to the fact that Austria as a sports country has a world reputation: the federal states, the sports aid, especially the Austrian Olympic Committee, the officials, trainers, supervisors and organizers of sporting events, which we must offer the best possible framework conditions in order to maintain and further develop the sporting success and also the sports focus of Austria, which is at our heart all in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15602	The next speaker was Mr Grabner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15632	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Sport has become an essential part of our culture. He was before... – colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Turnfather Jahn was known as the first Social Democratic!]] Now you're gonna start like that again! I mean, this is a serious thing, and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has already said that. I should now like to make a few points. By the way, I would be glad if the people knew how easily they are dealing with this problem! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When sports activity was initially a privilege of rich citizenship, sport also grew into a mass phenomenon thanks to social democratic politics. In the Second Republic, he had an identity strengthening effect. Just think of the successes of Toni Sailer, Franz Klammer, Karl Schranz, Hermann Maier, but also others. Sport is now an important economic factor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] – He will talk afterwards, then he can say it himself! Tourism lives in part on the fact that our top athletes are drawing attention to Austria internationally through their successes. Ladies and gentlemen! The top athletes are the best ambassadors for Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Optimal training conditions and targeted promotion of the talents among young athletes are the prerequisites for the world's highest performances. In the field of sport and its associations, outstanding personalities are operating in Austria: Lösnak and Pillwein in BSO, Beppo Mauhart and Alfred Ludwig in the Austrian Football Federation, Peter Schröcksnadel and Klaus Leistner in ÖSV, Lösnak, Waining and Prokop in the roof associations, Wallner and Jungwirth in the Austrian Olympic Committee and the professors Holdhaus and Prokop in sports medicine. But there is still much more work for our society and sports in Austria! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] However, it must be noted that small associations and associations do not have the opportunity to employ major managers due to lack of funds. Their volunteer officials fulfil a very important task in our society. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank God!]] Fred Sinowatz, for me the best sports minister since 1945, once meant that a city or a community will not live until the club life works. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor was at the BSO assembly, and there too it was mentioned: If we had to pay the work of the volunteer officials with only 100 s, that would be, as measured by the performance of the functionals, many billion schilling. So it doesn't matter which party they belong to or whether they belong to a party at all. The project of the black and blue government to increase postage fees for the newspaper shipping also for sports clubs meets financially poorly equipped clubs. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! May I ask you to speak to your colleague once again. Maybe you increase the rates by 1. January next year does not mean, because an increase means a lot of money for the small clubs. I can also thank you for doing in your ministry with the Ministry of Finance the business tax for the non-profit sports clubs. For me personally, however, it would be important that this also be law and not just a decree. Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, volunteer officials can continue to devote themselves to their deserving duties. I assure you that my party and I will continue to accept the concerns and demands of these associations and their officials. The gold of sports in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, are the volunteer officials! It's, I think, always important that you say that too. Although the club numbers are generally declining, they are increasing in sport. This circumstance clearly shows how deeply sports is anchored in our society. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only in sport is youth more at home, and therefore it is important that we support it. However, money is needed to promote sports activities. Especially the government with the sport – and I also say to you, my colleague, thank you – was actually the one with which we changed the gambling law into a novel, so that we have the money until 2002. Otherwise, the savings package would certainly have deleted a lot. All those who participate in the sport, I say thank you very much. Until 2002, we have the 500 million. Perhaps you can say, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, which regulation you intend to introduce after 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to traditional sports, new divisions are particularly enthusiastic in the youth. The development has been taken into account, and I hope for a successful mountain bike World Cup 2002 in Kaprun. This event will surely help the place to deal with the terrible cable car accident, and puts the beauty of this region in the foreground worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen! Among the social-democratic German Chancellors Vrannitzky and climate, St. Anton received the award for the 2001 World Ski Championship, which certainly revives and strengthens tourism on the Arlberg economically as well as improves the infrastructure of the place. I hope we will win many, many medals for Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We hope so too!]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! You also announced a sports law. What is the situation for the new sports law? We're going to look out for this law? – There are some problems, especially in the field of labour law. I think you should say that again and again. Because Olympic games have just taken place, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say how important these are. There is one who has become Olympic winner. [[towards Abg. Love of the location]] [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have sportsmen, whose achievements often criticise the public. You still have to take a paid leave in the present day so that they can take part in it. I'm thinking, above all, of the hundred-meter runner Karin Mayr. When she brings these achievements, we criticize her because we don't even know that she does all of her sporting achievements in leisure time. I have a few points to make. Are there any concrete considerations that sponsoring at amateur associations, as you have already announced, can be taxed in comparison with art purchases? To the umbrella associations – you did not say it, but you meant it, and I say it again here, as I have said many times; this goes far beyond the party borders –: Her old partyman was once in Upper Austria Obmann of a Union union. Many of us are at a union union, of the liberties also some at the ASKÖ. In a place where there is only one club, no one can see what is actually happening there. Löschnak said it at the BSO: Of course, sports are also ready to change a lot. It must also be said what is desired. Ladies and gentlemen! In the roof associations are 100 employees, almost only trainers. Without these umbrella associations, there would be no broadband in Austria. I think it's also important to keep saying that. I think that's necessary. I call on everyone to be active in the interests of sport and youth. In just a few days in Salzburg – there is a big programme – you will be presenting the motto for Austrian sport. Perhaps you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, could also present this guide for sports in Austria to the Sports Committee. I think it's important for Parliament to get it. How will you reorganise the top sport? – I believe that this is an important point for the future. We will have big events again next year. I think that's necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not want state sports, but the possibility of sporting activity for every citizen in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists were and are already the guaranteers because of our history and our social policy attitude. I doubt whether the current government can claim this as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15814	Mr Bruckmann spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15838	Mr Grabner has made the claim that sport has only become a mass phenomenon through social democracy. I'm actually correcting: Sports became a mass phenomenon a little earlier, even at the time of the "Turnpater" Jahn, which cannot be referred to as social democrats at best. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] By the way, however, I fully agree with the importance of sport as a broad sports member of Grabner and I have demonstrated this myself by participating in the Parliamentary Staff Ski Race as one of two Members of the High House last year – even though I only purchased a crack sausage.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15878	The next speaker was Mr Ortlieb. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e15899	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! I would first like to say a word to Mr Brosz. I think the discussion has never questioned the flattening of the salary pyramid. But I just don't think it's the time now that – as you imagine it – you let up the high salaries and increase the lower ones. You know just as everyone here knows, that doesn't allow the current budget. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: When is the time?]] The time is then when you may make just as constructive proposals. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said he was going to work on it. Everyone knows it is necessary, and it will certainly happen in the foreseeable future. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Next year then? Or next year?]] I would also like to say a few words to Mr Grabner. We have never questioned the volunteer officials either. [[Abg. Grabner: But then tell them how they always take it ridiculously!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You're not being ridiculed, Mr. Grabner. There have been enough discussions – thank you, okay. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Grabner) Being so excited about the time is unhealthy!]] Now I come to my part of the talk. In the sports section of the newspapers one always reads of human excellence. On the front pages we often read about misdeeds. The policy is not just to make lip confessions, to celebrate Olympic winners, to honor world champions, or to take a bath in the crowd. I myself have been invited to these honors very often. State Secretary Wittmann has often expressed an invitation to me, unfortunately I could never accept it; yet, once, at the end – excuse me, I correct myself. Vrannitzky, climate, all, but that's not what sports policy is. Sports policy and politics in general must create framework conditions for the benefit of our society. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am very glad that after years of the rounding there is finally a sports ministry – a sign that the health of our youth and our population is a concern of this government. [[Abg. Perfuss: Claps, please!]] – You don't seem to be concerned about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] What I've learned in sports is to achieve striving for maximum performance without losing respect for the performance of others. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But this should be transferred to all areas of life. As a former top sportsman, I got to know one side. As a politician, I am now trying to bring in experiences to achieve an appreciation of sports in our society. You have also mentioned the upgrading, Mr Grabner – there is nothing against it at all. I liked it anyway that other political groups also complained to you. This was very plausible, and we see – as we discussed in the Sports Committee – that sport is all about the image of sport and the well-being of the population and that party politics in this area has lost very little, very little. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of SPÖ) do you not clap?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of Abg. Noldi, now you've disappointed me!]] The sport needs a voice tube, but especially the athletes need the speech tube. There is no interest in broadband without top sports. Everyone knows how important broadband is for health. Wide-ranging sport, of course, also requires a certain budget to be promoted. A modern society is measured by its physical state and also by its fitness. A finger hat full of sports is better than a bucket full of tablets. Well-functioning health care and social balance are features of wealthy states. A great deal of wealth has to be spent on this important goal. However, we must not forget the prevention effect of top-level sports. An improvement in the health status of our people is already starting with school sports. I also see in sport an effective measure to prevent drug abuse. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Sports, however, also creates integration and is an ideal means of suffocating racism trends in the germ. Sports includes team spirit and compromise ability. Sports is not only a game, it is also politics. Every schilling that is invested in sports is an investment in our future. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Mrs Vice-Chancellor said exactly the opposite!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The difference between politics and party politics must also be recognized once!]] [[Further calls.]] – Politics is something else. Every schilling that is invested in sports is an investment in our future, with a return on their own. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: But that's the opposite...!]] [[Further calls.]] This is evidenced by some studies. How profitable this investment really is, I wouldn't have thought of myself. Mr Grabner has also mentioned this: A tax incentive for sponsors who invested in top-level sports should really be considered even more massively. We talked about it years ago. When I was still active sportsmen myself and had to do with the problem of finding sponsors, this was already discussed. I now ask you to support the ambitious projects of our Minister of Sport, Mrs Susanne Riess-Passer, and to contribute to the 2001 and 2002 budgets. But I would also like to congratulate from this point of view all our Olympic participants on their sporting successes. They have perfectly represented Austria abroad. The most pious thing about the whole thing was: We didn't have a single doping incident.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16130	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. The clock is set at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16152	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it will be easy to clarify an error or an inconsistency. Mr Ortlieb said: Sports has something to do with politics. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: Not with party politics!]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said: Sports has nothing to do with politics. [[Call to the liberals: Not with party politics!]] To make it clear: Of course, he has something to do with politics. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: Not with party politics!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: You sit in here and still don't listen!]] Now, when you look at the budget proposal, which former athletes are playing around here – not as Members of this House, but simply as visitors – and how the budget estimates in this issue of the budget estimate look like, you know why who is playing around here. Then everything's clear. Just one example of this: St. Anton Mr. Karl Schranz I have not seen on television as many times as here in the house. [[Abg. Neudeck: What about St. Anton?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser:... no television!]] But for this he has achieved that the funds for St. Anton are very high. That is the success of it, and that is, of course, politics, not a question! [[Abg. Böhacker: Sports policy and not party politics!]] But, Mrs. Minister, it's not about it alone, it's about a lot more. You said today: There are no cuts in sports and sports promotion. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I didn't say anything at all!]] This is a serious error. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I didn't say either!]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! If I only make the inflation rate today – which affects us all – and if I compare the 2000 and 2001 budgets and see that there are exactly the same amounts, then of course this is a minimization of the amounts, because not even the adjustment to the inflation rate has been made. That means, that's the first cut. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But perhaps you can explain to me that it is not a reduction, and how you intend to cover this inflation adjustment. In the budget it is a clear reduction. Now for disabled sports, Mrs. Minister! You've always said: The sport of disabled people is so important to you that the disabled are supposed to have sports because it is healthy – but this is another discussion – and especially sports, sports, sports, all the disabled are doing sports! But you have forgotten that sport, which people with disabilities do, is sport, but is not recognized as sports, let alone is financed as sport accordingly. This is the problem we have in Austria. It is really a shame for this country that today sports groups that go to events at national or international level must even beg their training suits so that they can look the same. This is how the promotion in disabled sports looks! With these 48 million schillings you have provided for disabled sports, Mrs Minister, we are not getting far. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That's not much, yes!]] – I say "we" now, but I don't mean "we" because I don't do any sports. This does not mean that the disabled will not get far. You know very well that when events are held in the field of disability sports, they require an unevenly higher staffing effort than in non-inhibited sports. There must be more caretakers and masseurs, there is a very different basis to create so that disabled people can also run sports and perform their services. This extra effort, Mrs Minister, is nowhere in addition to teaching, and sports promotion in disabled sport accounts for only 8 percent of the total. So you can't be that important about disabled sports. This has also been shown when our Olympic athletes came back. Where were you, Mrs. Minister? [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: In the Council of Ministers, Mrs Deputies!]] They are also present in disabled sports only if a TV camera is there. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: No, I was in the Council of Ministers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] If the TV camera isn't there, you're not here either. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is to say, you know in advance whether the woman will be Vice-Chancellor. You just need to ask if the ORF will come. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I was in the Council of Ministers! This is an insolence, Mrs Deputies.]] But that's the way it is. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: This is an unfrozenness!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] I don't say that – I don't do sports – but the disabled athletes tell me that. They'll know because you haven't seen them. [[Abg. Böhacker: The lowest drawer is the deepest drawer!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's adequate!]] [[Abg. Achatz: No, no!]] [[Call to the Freeman: This is almost at the level of Mr Edlinger!]] It's about something else, Mrs. Vice chancellor. If You are seriously interested in the fact that people with disabilities are also doing sports, then you need to be even more serious about the fact that at last all sports venues are made accessible. That's stagnating too! Mrs. Minister! Not only would you have to look at the fact that existing sports facilities are finally made accessible, but you would also have to ensure that these places are not reduced in sports venues, for example, where there are a number of wheelchairs. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] What happened at the Schwarzenegger Stadium? Have you overlooked, Mrs. Vice chancellor, that two thirds of wheelchair seats are simply abolished there? [[Abg. Head: But she is not responsible for everything!]] Apparently it's meat, we're making places for pedestrians now. – There is now an additional gallery. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is already a federal stadium!]] [[Abg. Head: No, not anymore!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: It has been paid by the covenant!]] [[Abg. Head: A third!]] Mrs. Minister! You have to do this, and you have to ask yourself how it is possible to reduce the places again in existing sports facilities that are new, so that people who are interested in sports take more or less the opportunity to participate in sporting events. I'm curious about the answer you have. I've read all the newspapers about this announcement, and it's not just an announcement, but it's actually done: The wheelchairs are reduced in the Schwarzenegger Stadium. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I have not heard any word from you that you are opposed to it, or that you have any opinion on it at all. You just kept silent. One more thing, Mrs. Vice chancellor: If, as you have said – whether Mr Ortlieb has cheated or just doesn't know – the sport has no political influence on anything and no one – party political, apologies, that's much more important: party-political! – then, what are you doing, please, now with your Turnerbund? [[Abg. Neudeck: Party Political! Now you understand!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But he has political...!]] What happens to the Turnerbund now? [[Abg. Achatz: gymnastics!]] If the Turnerbund is not a party political issue, then there is no longer any party policy matters at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! - She's got different things to do, but that's not tragic. . I would like to ask you about an area which is not part of the sport, but rather of the disability sector, which is the compensation tax fund. The compensation tax fund is also located in your resort. ==References== September 2000 of the "Presse" announced, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you want to abolish the Federal Social Offices in the countries, due to savings measures and the reduction of the level of staff. [[Abg. Head: That would happen: integrate into the social departments of the countries, do not abolish it!]] My question is: Who will take over the work of these Federal Social Offices in the future? – So far, no one has found anyone who could have explained this question to me only in the approach. That is why I ask you, Mrs Minister: Who will do that in the future? They wanted to have the area of the compensation tax fund. There is no logical reason for this, because that was very well lifted in the Social Ministry. Perhaps you would have had too few offices and thus less money. I don't know what the reason is. The fact is, you have it, and you want to abolish it. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Sparwille! Inhibitive spasm!]] Now my question: What are the federal social offices in the countries doing so wrong that they are no longer needed? What are we supposed to do about this work? [[Abg. Head: What do they do, what the social departments of the countries cannot do?]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! These are open questions that interest us – with "us" I mean the Greens and the disabled people in Austria again. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mrs Vice-Chancellor understands these issues under party policy!]] Give me your answers, especially for the abolition of the federal social offices of the countries, for the Schwarzenegger Stadium and for the party political influence in the context of sports promotions and the funding you have committed in this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16615	Mr Westenthaler spoke in favour of an actual correction. The GO provisions are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16639	Mr President. High house! Mrs Haidlmayr claimed that Mrs Vice-Chancellor said that sport should not have anything to do with politics. I am indeed correct that the Vice-Cancellor, of course, spoke of party politics, which should not have anything to do with sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] That is also to be supported. It is sad if, as a Member of this House, you are unable to distinguish Party policy from sports or social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16684	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16705	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! – Mrs Haidlmayr! She can't hear me now, though, I think. – There is, of course, much to be said about the question of the Federal Social Offices in the countries, just as there is a lot to say about dualities and duals in the Austrian administration. But, of course, if we deal with the subject of performance assessment or the State's assessment of tasks in this way, we will never come up with structural reforms in this country. No person in Austria is calling into question the benefits of the State provided through these institutions. But how we bring these benefits to the disabled to revitalize this issue must be very welcome. I personally wonder: What do these Federal Social Offices do so well that, for example, the social departments of the countries could also do – if we already want to achieve the elimination of double-tracks? This does not mean that the Federation must therefore say goodbye to the financing of such services. But with access: it must not change anything, so that nothing changes in this country, and then regret that we can no longer afford to have too little money coming to the affected and simmering much too much money into the structures – so of course we will not be able to change anything in this country, namely, nothing to improve it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But now on the real topic, on the sport. At the beginning of the debate, for example, when I heard Mr Grabner, I actually thought: Thank God, finally a topic – I know it for many years, Noldi, from many conversations – in which we seem to be very interconnected and very little separated between parties, because we are all aware of the social and health significance of sports! It is undisputed that sports driving people on average are healthier than sports driving that they have lower health risks. That's all proven. I believe that our main task in sports policy – and it does not necessarily only have to do with money, although money is constantly talking about – is first of all to create a consciousness of willingness to move in itself. This actually starts with our children in kindergarten, school and also at home. This is at all the most essential task, and, as I said, it has to do with content at first and not constantly with money. In this context, the money is far too often the only hanger when it comes to sports policy. However, if you are talking about sports policy and competence, and if you are also involved in the activities of the sport policy, you have to look at the situation of competence. Sport, according to our constitution, is first of all a matter of country. I believe that our federal states are fulfilling their tasks in sport in a particularly qualified and particularly positive way. If you look at how intensive sports promotion programs are being carried out in our countries and in what state the sports venues are located in our countries, you can see: mostly in an excellent condition! To a large extent, the athletes in our federal states have excellent opportunities for sports practice. First of all, this is the merit – because its task – of the federal states. The Federation carries out an overarching task for all those activities in sport, which are of supraregional importance and require coordination and funding beyond the national borders. Mrs. Vice chancellor! It is high on your mind that it has succeeded in keeping the sports budget to an extent that has failed in other areas due to the budget situation. The fact that this budget has not experienced a reduction in such difficult budget times is all the more remarkable. – Mrs Haidlmayr! I really think it is a hair clump when you say that you have not yet been able to give the inflation rate even in view of the low inflation rate we have, and especially the overall budgetary situation. . I would therefore like to stress again, Mrs Vice-Chancellor: This is a very strong performance in this context! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the government agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ, it is also remarkable – and I have looked at many government programmes – that for the first time in this detail on the sport chapter there are very concrete measures. In my opinion, these are also necessary, because we clearly have structural weaknesses in promoting sport, which it is necessary to combat and eliminate. Mr Grabner has already mentioned the Sports Act. I believe that professional sport in particular needs such a law. I know that you are already working on it, but we also have to bear in mind that this is not as easy to implement as it seems at the first moment, because it is really about derogations in many areas, from labour law to competition law. So that won't be so easy to make. Furthermore, clear, transparent directives need to be revised, or even first drawn up. I repeat now, I have already mentioned this in speeches about earlier sports budgets, in connection with general sports promotion. But I think it is remarkable how quickly it has succeeded to make Mrs Vice-Chancellor, at least in the sports budget, clearer priorities and that, for example, projects selected in the early years are being used, which are particularly promoted in order to achieve example effects for other areas. As a sports representative of the Austrian Football Federation, I would also like to thank you personally, because you have known yourself in the last few days on a project that we are currently trying to raise with a lot of acribie. We also want to create performance centres for the young people throughout Austria and settle below the Federal Research Centres, and you and your ministry are involved with a massive support for the sports science and sports medical support of these young talents. I would like to thank you very much at this point on behalf of the Austrian Football Federation! Finally, I would like to point out that I even have the impression that sports is in good hands with you, because one clearly feels that there is an interest in it that you are more than just doing jobs and tasks in this context, because you really have love for the matter. I think this is very good for Austrian sport as a whole. I hope to see some interesting and important projects and initiatives for sport from this access to sports in the next few years! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16796	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16815	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you said with a certain arrogance from the government bank that SPÖ had not made any proposals for administrative reform. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's very bad!]] I think that's a presumption, because we put 30 pages on the Internet. That's why I advise you: Take the opposition parties seriously, and at least make the effort to read through their proposals! [[Abg. Ing. Scheuch: That's ridiculous! That's where the chickens laugh!]] These proposals have, by the way, also been disseminated in the media. In this area of administrative reform, we have done a clear task, a legislative proposal and also proposals concerning the reorganisation of the administrative level. We also made an administrative management proposal. All this is to be read in detail there. We have tried to reunite the administrative agency by covering a maximum of two instances. We have tried to get one level out of this instance move. We have proposed a concentration of the first-instance train in the District Headquarters. So we have made a number of concrete proposals. I did not count them all; I stopped counting on 35 proposals. I would just like to mention this because you said earlier that no proposals have been made. [[Abg. Prince: It must also be good proposals!]] But that's the way it is: If one does not know about the situation, then some statements become embarrassing if they are not even of a certain superiority. Now there are some proposals that you could make immediately. I wonder, for example, why do you deal with teachers about teaching lessons if you can save an administrative level with compulsory school teachers immediately! It is not to be seen that the administrative group of compulsory school teachers is managed by two levels of administration. Save the federal level or save the national level! Then you immediately have so much money that you no longer have to save lessons! – This would be a very simple measure in the framework of the administrative reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or: Why Try You do not want to eliminate the double track record of national statistics and federal statistics? A statistical office is perfect! - Or: Why don't you try to merge the various laboratories? – All these are concrete proposals! But all you hear is that they want to save 12,000 people! This is your only announcement of administrative reform! – Not at all! [[Abg. Head: How long have you been in charge?]] Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Don't always want the others to make suggestions! You have not made a concrete proposal in this debate yet! We have put more than enough proposals on the table! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why didn't you do all that yourself?]] They should only make the effort to deal with it once, and not say from above that it is an administrative reform if one saves 12 000 people. - It's not that! This is a maximum of a savings target, but no administrative reform yet! That's nothing at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They can also say that they want to save 20,000. Which house number It doesn't matter if you spell them out of your sleeve without reason. That has no substance at all! That's just an announcement, and you're gonna fail this one. You will not continue anything at all – except that you have commissioned three studies: one in the Ministry of Finance, one in the Federal Chancellor's Office, and one you have commissioned as Vice-Chancellor, as a minister yourself, so that we have three times the cost! I am curious about what all this will cost, who will then bring the results together and who will keep the upper hand with his ideas. – I have to say quite honestly: This is an interesting development in times of a savings package! Now I'm coming to the sport. I have to do this a little faster, because unfortunately there was very little time for that. – First of all, I would like to say: You have said at an event of sports aid that the paraolimpic participants will receive a premium. In sport, not many ideological differences separate us, as you have found yourself. As President of the Paraolimpic Committee, however, I am still waiting for the money for my athletes to receive as a premium for the achievements achieved. [[Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: You, Mr. Deputies, do not get the money!]] – Not a single athlete of yours has seen a giant! This is something I would like to hold on to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The athletes will already get the money!]] Secondly, The decision on advertising is an extremely important matter for our sports clubs. That is why I want to see this not only regulated in the way of passing, but also seeking to ensure that this first important step you are taking is also at law level. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think this is a reasonable development. However, there is also a development in the sports sector, which is not so reasonable, in relation to the bets. There is a dramatic development, because the betting companies and betting operators make their business exclusively on the back of the athletes and the athletes do not see a big deal of it, but only the betting institutions that make it possible to win. I think it would be useful to introduce a redistribution of a fee or a tax in this area. For example, the bets could be taxed with a fee that will ultimately benefit athletes and sports promotion. It can't be that a head and collar are risking being betted on its back, so to speak, and it doesn't see a giant of it! Its performance is exploited for a really great business, but through the ruling regulations, sport remains in truth unconcerned. In this regard, we should really agree on a common path. I heard you were presenting your new sports guidelines at a competition firm in Salzburg. – I have to say quite honestly that this company should at last be asked to cash out, so that it can give part of the profit it makes to those with whom it deserves it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e16988	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Grabner, Dr Wittmann and others on the legal anchoring of the derogation for non-profit sports clubs from advertising is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. The watch is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Vice chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17011	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to speak again at this point, because my previous speakers claimed so much that I just have to put it right. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Head: Not all previous speakers have claimed immense!]] Mrs Haidlmayr! If, as you say, you really care about the sport of disabled people, you should have noticed that in my department responsibility over the past nine months, there have been as many support initiatives for disability sports as never before, which is also recognised by the disabled athletes. If you had talked to them, you would have to know! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] If you've asked me where I was on the arrival of the paralympic athletes, I have to tell you: I was in the Council of Ministers. It was told that I could not be there on arrival because I was in the Council of Ministers. But I was at the time of the adoption of the paralympic athletes in Enns, not because the ORF was there. The ORF is, by the way, hardly ever at disability sports events, and I have already talked about this with Mr General Indegent. Anyway, I'm not allowed to offer this statement: I am present both at competitions and at events of disabled athletes, because this is my concern, and not because I want to come to television, Mrs Haidlmayr! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I would also like to say to Mr Wittmann, the President of the Paraolimpics: He knows very well, because he was with me in Enns that I had already offered premiums during the Olympics, but that I was told by the association itself that it was not desirable, but that one should instead provide support for the association. After the return of the athletes, after speaking to the athletes themselves, I tried to work together with sponsors such as the Austrian Olympic Committee, but also the P.S.K. and the Austrian Lotteries to make premiums for the athletes, even if that is not desired by the officials, because this is my concern, and they will get it too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: When?]] Mr Wittmann. A small comment on your proposals for administrative reform on the Internet. I have to tell you: They are not representatives of an Internet company, but representatives of a parliamentary party. You do not have to present your proposals for administrative reform on websites, but rather present them here in this House so that they can be dealt with at parliamentary level. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He did that!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Are you deaf?]] It is truly not my job to control the websites of the SPÖ daily.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17123	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17141	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr State Secretary! – Where is Dr. Wittmann? The dynamic, committed Dr. Wittmann is now defying! I wish he had only developed so much dynamics in the time of his State Secretariat! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At that time, Mr Wittmann was more likely to express himself politely, discreetly in his activities! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now he comes via the Internet with proposals for school administration reform. That's incredible! Mrs Vice-Chancellor has already directed her where this should be debated. But only the fact that he proposes the elimination of an administrative level is incredible! This is a concern of the school reform which we have long represented and which Mrs Vice-Chancellor will also implement. And now, Mr. Wittmann – obviously as a social-democratic educational speaker – wants to sell this as his proposal, after having done nothing else in recent years and decades, but to stick to the institution of the district school inspectors and shape the occupation there according to party policy guidelines! So now buy you off, Dr. Wittmann, that this is a heart concern, I can't do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] By the way: Who has prevented you from implementing this within the last few years and decades when you are demanding this as a great measure? Mrs. Vice chancellor! To the disabled Olympic Olympiade. We were in the Sports Committee when the Secretary of State about one and a half months after the event, when there was particularly good performance in Nagano, proposed that there should also be premiums for these athletes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] – Mrs. Haidlmayr! Leave that! – In total, the athletes then waited for these premiums for a good half year. And now the accusation is that it was not immediately responded. At that time, however, this was regarded as an exceptional situation for the very good services. [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] Your whispers, Mrs. Haidlmayr, I can't even give up! I spent 20 years in veneration sports. I was a national trainer in the veneration of sports, and I was happy to do the low services required there with the drivers in England, America and beyond. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You probably mean the wheelchair drivers!]] I don't think about it and wouldn't mention it if you didn't provoke me like that. I would like to stress: I know from the officials at the Disability Association that you are unhappy about your interpellation and ask you to ignore the area of performance sports in worshipful sports from your argumentation. That's the wish that landed with me. Forget So please do this area and stick to your left-wing social policy! That's where you'd better be taken up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The desire to act a little party-unpolitically in the sports sector has demented Mr Grabner relatively quickly. He's just an ASKÖ representative with a sports heart, as I always allow him. He has done a lot for Austria's sport. But he is doing exactly that political sport that has been going and going on in recent years and decades. His list of deserving officials was the "Who is Who" of the Austrian ASKÖ. Mr. Sailer won't be happy that you called him, but he won't be hurt either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know what the ASKÖ, the working group for sports and body culture in Austria, is by definition? – "Body culture was a top term used in the former socialist countries for physical exercises and sports and was considered as a class-related historical phenomenon as well as a supporter of the formation of socialist people." - So far, so bad. Of course, this definition of ASKÖ still floats over its functionals. 50 percent of the officials in the country come from this former half of the empire. However, the influence on the allocation of public funds over the roof associations is unevenly greater: It is traded at about 60 to 80 percent, and that is what it is all about! Dear colleague Grabner! We are happy to see Mrs. Vice-Chancellor clean it up. She's already done it in the first place, but not to destroy something. The sportsman outside the club, dear friend Grabner, does not know the definition of ASKÖ, and he also does not care what political direction his club has. The officials, however, were very happy to take part, as you, colleague Grabner, have demonstrated here today, the performance athletes like to dress under their coats to beautify themselves with them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! Continue on the path of depoliticization! Colleague Head has already indicated your merites, I don't have to repeat them here. You're on the right track, and I'm asking you: Read the Government Agreement, which, by the way, includes an order of magnitude, as was the case with no government statement on sports in the past! I thank you for creating a definitive, binding sports committee, and I also thank you for the good report from the previous year. I hope we can deal with him in the Sports Committee very soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17240	Mr Arnold Grabner spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I would ask you to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17267	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grollitsch has said that I have named the names of ASKÖ officials. I'm correcting: Billwein is not an ASKÖ functionary, Schröcksnadel and Leistner are not ASKÖ functionaries, and the two prokops are also not ASKÖ functionaries. So I'm asking you to watch a little when you speak here! Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I am correcting: Not the Vice-Chancellor has set up the Sports Committee, but he has been decided here in Parliament. Not the Vice-Chancellor has decided on this committee. . I would have believed you knew, Mr Grollitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17300	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. It is his second word. The first one took 8 minutes, so there is still a 12 minute remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17322	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor is not here right now. Shame! I should have made a real correction earlier. But I thought I was saying that in the second word. Mrs Vice-Chancellor, on my argument that 500 S does not cover the inflation rate, meant that it is very well covered in the lower areas. I then took control of the calculator and noted that 500 S as the highest percentage rate for AHS teachers is 2.18 percent increase, and everyone who knows the current inflation rates knows that this is below. Therefore, it is not about medium and small incomes, but generally that the increase is simply below the inflation rate. Furthermore, the comparison with other countries with regard to the teaching obligation at many corners and ends, simply because there are completely different recognition and settlement systems. With us, activities in the administration, including in the time management, are included in the teaching obligation; in other countries, on the other hand, these benefits are paid extra. Furthermore, if you look at how many teachers work in Austria, you always have to remember that school directors who do not teach are also included in the number of teachers. However, this is not the case in other countries. Nevertheless, the conclusion was not understandable, because the flattening of the salary curve has nothing to do with whether or not something is increased or reduced. Due to Austrian income, this is possible in Austria, since there is no need to compare with Germany and not to increase the teaching obligation. You can do this wonderfully in Austria! Back to the point I reported to. I wanted to hear colleagues from Grabner and colleagues from Ortlieb before me, which is why I made a statement again, otherwise I could have put it in my first speech. – I want to come to the sport now. Unfortunately, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor is still not here. . At the last sports budget, we have held an interesting discussion on its transparency, and Mrs Vice-Chancellor has announced in various opinions that this will really improve in the near future. I would like to remind you that there is an approach of 480 million schilling this year in the special sport promotion, which is an essential and large part of the sport promotion in the sports budget, which is still not broken down; it is only the sum of 480 million schilling. . I know that there are legal regulations by which it is clear who gets the big positions of them, I admit. Mrs Vice-Chancellor referred to the 1999 sports report, in which a breakdown of a relatively small part of the then 440 million is contained and where at least the funds of the BSO are broken down on one side, so that this is imaginable. My colleague, he's sitting there anyway. That is why I would like to say: For example, it still contains a position – Austrian Football League with 148 million Schilling – of which we still do not know what these funds are used for. It's not transparent! It is not at all clear what these funds are used for, and as long as this is not clear, there is certainly no consent from the Greens for these funds, because it is simply unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked to know this here in Parliament, and I have also asked several times. My questions in the Committee on Budgets were very specific. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor replied that this was still being examined in the Control Committee and that there was also a veto right by the Ministry. I would also like to point out once again what I mentioned in the last sports budget, namely what the Court of Auditors said. The Court of Auditors has already said in 1994 that this is a historical model. I would like to quote this again, and I will now quote it at every budget; perhaps it will succeed at some point in the end that this will be handled differently. I quote: "The beneficiaries continue to consider these federal funds as means of sport, which should be managed and controlled by the organisations themselves." – This is the situation we have now. And by the way, it says: "The Court of Auditors considered this to be unthinkable at all events. Since the Sports-Toto-Reform, the funding amounts previously determined by the Federal Government for parts of the Sports-Toto-Rein yield have been estimated under the Federal Budget. There was also unlimited ministerial responsibility for this support sector. In any event, the legal guarantee of funds and the guarantee of value created a significant improvement in the production of sports organisations vis-à-vis beneficiaries in other areas." - Quote. This continues to be true. At that time, it was said that it was an emergency budget, that you had to act quickly, and that a change was not yet possible. But I do not understand why, after a year, it is still not possible to change legislation here. We do not even say whether this is justified or not. I can't say that. I have no idea whether the 60 million for the ASKÖ and the 60 million for the ASVÖ are justified or not, because we do not know what to do with this money. That is why I believe that there must finally be transparency. In the sports report, each coach is led, for example, 4 000 S or 6 000 S. And then you find flat-rate 60 million schilling for the ASKÖ. – That cannot be the transparency you mean! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who do you think you are?]] In the meantime I am holding it up to you, because now it was a year,... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who is this sports report of?]] I am talking about the 2001 budget approach and a sum of 480 million schilling. That was the starting point. It would be possible to design the legal directives in such a way that one cannot write in a summary sum, but must also provide the breakdown for it. The second point is the question of mixing between the recognition of services of sports-functionaries and transparency. That is what I am going to come to Mr Grabner, and this will be a longer discussion, also at the next budget. These are just two different things: It is undisputed that volunteers – whether they are active in the ASKÖ, the Union or wherever they are – provide services that are essential for sport. But this has nothing to do with the fact that I still want to know what happens with public funds that these associations get. These are two things you can't connect to each other. I am more cautious about Mr Schröcksnadel. Of course, Mr Schröcksnadel is active in sports, but it is clear that he has massive and very firm economic interests. Whole ski areas in Austria belong to him, and also the event organisation of the World Cup races is his area. So if, for example, there is no distinction between the screw needle and other volunteer sports officials, then the mixture that still exists in this area is shown again. Something else on this question: Anyone who looks at local newspapers hardly sees a picture of a sports teacher's food, on which the mayor does not continue to praise, for which it is very important to "retrieve" the photos. I agree with colleagues from the FPÖ that this link with party policy is simply heard out and that one should not get to the point of considering this as a prestige project, which is always about: If anything is "inherited" and a photo is taken, you go and let it do, but otherwise you usually don't care about these clubs. [[Abg. Böhacker: The mayor is unpolitical!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: This is far from practice!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] This is not far from practice at all. I know this area relatively well and can refer to it again: Look You look at the local newspapers and look at where it appears, and then ask the clubs where else it will appear! [[Abg. Head: This is a generalization that is simply not allowed!]] I know that is something where you – especially from the SPÖ, but also from the ÖVP – have a beautiful field with your mayors to present yourself. But I think that sport has relatively little to do with it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where other things belong. Unfortunately, when it comes to promotion measures, where there is nothing to inherit, the interest is much lower. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17445	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17467	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The current public performance and sport budget shows once again the importance of our federal government in sport. I have followed the statements made by my previous speakers intensively, and in particular I have listened to my Low Austrian colleague, Grabner. I have to say that I have never been in as many points as you have in this matter, but I have to add one or another question or make a brief criticism. They have said that, above all, broadband plays an increasingly important role in our population. I can only agree. We all know that 90 percent of the population doing sports do so because they are convinced that it does good for their fitness and their health. That is why, for me, sports promotion is also in the broadest sense at the same time health promotion. That is why I am glad that the funding of sports promotion in the youth sector and the youth sector has been increased by 20 million schilling, because especially in this area, in this age segment, sports promotion is very, very important because the roots are laid for a lifelong sporting activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Grabner! They mentioned that the entrances to the sports clubs – compared to other clubs – are rising, that we are very pleased and therefore we invest a lot in sports and sports clubs. I believe that this is a very good thing in the end, because the young people there find a meaningful leisure work. I have to bring here again my example of last week, from Friday, with which I have pointed out that I do not understand the policy in the field of antidrug policy of SPÖ. I also have to point out at this point the current membership action of the young socialists, in which a campaign for the release of soft drugs has been launched. I would like to ask you here and make an appeal to you to take action against it and to put an end to it. I believe that the millions who flow in there would in all cases be better placed in sports and in our youth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In my opinion, the SPÖ is totally working beyond reality and negates the potential for threats in drugs. I should like to focus briefly on the important economic factor or on the important factor for tourism, which you have mentioned. We agree that trends such as riding and mountain biking in particular need to be met and that we need a suitable network of roads in this regard. However, we each have a different access. I appeal to you to consider this, too, and I hope that we will also find a common solution on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17525	It has been considered to make a request because Mrs Vice-Chancellor is not present. But I'm asking that we fix this so later. I think Mrs. Vice-Chancellor's in the house. I would like to ask them if it is possible to take part in the deliberations again, and then we can save ourselves a vote. [[Abg. Oillinger: A FPÖ meeting!]] The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17556	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In my contribution to sports I want to devote myself to health in sports. As a long-term sports officer, I know that sports are very important in their diversity for the physical, mental and emotional well-being of man. This must be promoted and supported. A British magazine reports that even a minor improvement in physical fitness through sports or just a more exercise results in a significantly reduced risk of death. Since the beginning of the 1970s, researchers have studied some 2,000 people aged 40 to 60. While a group was physically inactive, the other group consisted of persons who either regularly did sports or exercise at least twice a week so much exercise that they got sweated. These persons were examined every ten years. The result: The active group had rare obesity, improved blood fat levels, and as a result, the risk of death was significantly reduced. This means that sport is also an important part of life-design. Above all, however, it must be one of our most important tasks to promote broadband, health and youth sport in particular. Sport therefore plays a very important role in the maintenance of health, moral and physical education and the promotion of international understanding. Aware of this, I am therefore very concerned about the increasing use of doping agents by athletes throughout the sports sector. As politicians and politicians, we also need to consider the consequences of doping for the health of athletes and the future of sports. Ladies and gentlemen! State sports policy must therefore ensure that the sports organisations can create and enforce rules to prevent doping. The importance of this issue also shows the increasing number of doping cases in recent times. Three well-known cases occurred with the German ringers and the Olympic winners from Italy. The latest Austrian example can be read in the newspapers today: After a positive drug test, an art railway Rodler is put on ice for two years, writes today's "Kurier". The interesting thing is that there are doping cases, especially in those sports where muscle mass is less important than strength and endurance. The doping traps abound there. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget provides for 2.1 million schilling for anti-doping measures. In addition, the Austrian Parliament has incorporated the European Antidoping Convention into the Austrian legal system. It provides for the establishment of the Austrian Antidoping Committee. The task of this Committee is to organise the anti-doping measures provided for in the Convention. This committee, represented by the Federal Ministry for Sport, includes the nine federal states, the Austrian Federal Sports Organisation and the Austrian Olympic Committee. The Committee has the task of organising the anti-doping measures under the European Convention, identifying doping errors and causing the corresponding sanctions on athletes and other sportsmen in the field. I too believe that sports have to be treated over-participally and that it has to be about things: about our athletes and about the sports in general. The sport is protected, accordingly promoted, and – which is also very important – the sport needs its autonomy. As a sports officer and a mandater, the health and social importance of sports is a major concern to me. I would like you, Mrs Vice-Chancellor – unfortunately she is not here yet; [[Deputies Böhacker and Dr. Khol – pointing to the government bank –: Here she is!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: She's been here for a while!]] Excuse me, I didn't see you! – call once again for appropriate support measures and framework conditions for sport.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17604	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hetzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17625	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The health, social and economic importance of sport has been addressed several times and is probably undisputed. I would refer to the very often quoted "most important incident of the world" as "not the most important thing in the world" because sports is more. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Aha, also a sportsman!]] Sport in today's society is more than just an incident in the course of the change of society, as a result of an ever-increasing focus on leisure society. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This importance should also be expressed very clearly here. I would like to say a few words to Mr Grabner. Mr President, you have literally said that you are representatives of the officials. Is that right? – I would like to face one thing. I'm putting a lot of emphasis on saying: We are representatives of the athletes. That's an essential difference. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You've got the impression here – when you said: the top athletes, that goes back on our initiatives, big events go back to the SPÖ – that's a wrong view of things. The public hand of course promotes large sporting events. I call this a keyword that meets the point, and that is, "re-route profitability". That is why the public hand is increasingly interfering – and rightly more and more – in this area. In this context, it has already been said that the installation of a parliamentary sports committee is based on FPÖ initiatives. It is also unheard of that in addition to promoting the medial very well transportable top sport of organized club sport and thus ultimately broadband has a very essential importance and that this fact is taken into account to a higher degree. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The necessary savings measures, which have become necessary in the context of budgetary reorganisation, are not intended to restrict broadband and association on a broad basis. On the contrary: Sports teachers in schools are also required to take exactly those measures that give students the feeling that sports and physical education are very important areas of education. There should be no compulsion, there should be no need to exercise sports, but it should be playful, even in high schools, and it must be said clearly and clearly by the sports pedagogists: This is about body education, and it is also about the student turning this into the right track in his later life and that he becomes a leisure sportsman. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to draw attention to one point. In the field of sport, there has been the distribution of the German sports homes. This was a success in terms of economic policy. This is clear from the increase in the number of nights worked and the increase in the rate of utilization by working days. Of course, the public hand is still very much involved in this area, but it can be said that this is another example of a positive and successful privatisation, as we demand in many areas and how it is implemented in general and in many other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an essential part of our budget, and in this context it must be pointed out that SPÖ has not really put on the table concepts that concern economic policy and that show how it would have reorganised the state budget. Mr Gusenbauer explained that he could have imagined a restructuring course by 2004, but in no way proposed a measure which, in his opinion, would lead to a reorganisation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many have also understood it as a threat that Mr Gusenbauer said today in his speech: Rehabilitation, yes, but in a longer period of time. – How does the SPÖ want to reorganise a state if it is financially a rehabilitation case as a party itself? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say something about the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grabner and Dr Wittmann. This request will not be supported by us, since it has already been generously completed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17730	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17751	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About 15 years ago, some exodus and single walkers came up by bike on forest roads, on forest roads, and drove up the mountain. Meanwhile, this has become the trend port number one: Families, seniors, the whole population wants to cycle in the area. This is also potentially a tourism factor and, in total, a particularly important sport policy issue. It also has an economic significance when you know that in Austria more than 500 000 bicycles are purchased each year and 40 percent of them are suitable for the ground. Ladies and gentlemen! The taxpayer – and that is, I believe, a very crucial point – spends around 300 million schillings a year for the construction and maintenance of forest roads, but is still locked by bicycle. That's really curious! On the one hand, one spends hundreds of millions of schilling on the ski sports infrastructure, destroying large areas in nature, but the existing tourism and sports infrastructure, such as the forest roads, cannot be used for sports. Mrs. Vice chancellor! ==References== October has revealed ways in which with respect to forestry work, nature and wildlife, gentle and under solution of the liability question, an opening is possible. I will vote in such a way, Mrs Sport Minister, that he meets all the requirements. It is possible to make changes to the forest law and road traffic regulations with relatively simple legal means, so that this problem can finally be solved. And then comes the revelation: Who's for tourism, colleague? Who is for healthy movement of the population in free nature? Who is in favour of a forward-looking sport, leisure and health policy matter? Or: Who's for the creepy hunter lobby? Who's for taking off, for an entrance fee to nature? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Günther, this is cheap!]] Who's for blocking the population? Who's for blocking the tourists? [[Abg. May. That's cheap!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Already preventive for the next speaker, for colleagues Miedl, who will then praise the Alpine tour in Styria in the highest tones as an optimal mountain bike route: In reality, 50 percent of this route is on asphalt roads – on this so much praised, big Styrian mountain bike track! That's how reality looks. Ladies and gentlemen! The sport-enthusiastic population will observe very closely who will decide in the coming weeks and months.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17803	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17824	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Herzegovina! I'd love to pick up the ball. 900 kilometers of alpine tour in Styria as a mountain bike route – half of it does not go on asphalt! That's 450 kilometers we created in the Styria. We, the ÖVP, do not belong to those who expropriate farmers, farmers and farmers in order to allow people with mountain bikes to go through these areas at their risk. We know other and better ways, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll write one more in the stem book to the cross-field wheel herb: If you, as it were, want to release the Styria and the other federal states for cycling, I will tell you that this is not the case with mountain bikers alone, because the mountain bike requires a certain infrastructure. Mr President, I should like to thank Along this 900-kilometre stretch, more than 200 gastronomy plants have been created, dedicated specifically to mountain biking. A trade was created there, and workshops around this tour have been created. The economy flourishes, and the mountain biker, the sportsman is satisfied. I think: If the athlete is satisfied, and only the lord herbs are not, then you can leave it with the state, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You know, this seems a little funny to me. You haven't been here until recently... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Since the FPÖ is in the government, I am very satisfied with the sport policy, because there is a dedicated woman, Vice-Chancellor, who is really concerned about sports. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since ex-State Secretary Wittmann is poking out here, Mrs. Vice-Chancer is substituting arrogance and arrogance, claiming that athletes would not have seen a big deal of sports bets. Mr Wittmann – unfortunately he is not here – I know who has not seen a schilling! I'm so angry because the SPÖ sports policy was nothing but air and trust. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grabner: Hello! Let's get out of here.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Luke and Trug, I'll stay with you. Chancellor Vranitzky promised the Styria for the construction of the Austrian ring, later A1-ring, 120 million schilling in writing. Ladies and gentlemen, no one schilling has reached the Styria until now! Mr Grabner, not a single schilling! I would have excused you today if I had not recently spoken on this subject in the Sports Committee. Mr ExState Secretary went here and said: Mr Miedl, we have invested this in the infrastructure of the municipalities around the A1-ring. So I'll go and talk to the mayors around the A1 ring. There I know many very well. No schilling, Mr Grabner, has ever reached this region from the SPÖ box. I do not call that a sports policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And that, although the Austrian ring has in fact already refinanced three times on the basis of the audience revenue, because of the numbers that, please, speak a clear language. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, since there is the ÖVP FPÖ government, there is suddenly a dedicated sports minister and vice-chanist who is committed on his own and negotiates with Mr Ecclestone intensively and offensively for a further extension of the contracts. That's what I call sports policy! Ladies and gentlemen! The framework conditions in top-level sports have already been addressed several times. I am also talking about the conditions that are necessary. This is why top-level sport is necessary, Mr Cap, so that broadband can take place. Here you are my opinion, that's why we need top sports! The top-level sport is also one of the areas in which federal policy has competence. We've been talking about that today. These conditions – I count some – are, of course, the media, especially television. I am very glad that we are now obviously able to amend the so-called EU television directive so that sporting events, which are of high social importance, can still be broadcast on the free TV in Austria. My request goes here, too, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, that you pay great attention to also taking into account sports events such as skiing, but also the Austrian ring and other sporting events. I am very glad that in this context you have also mentioned disability sports and other sports, ladies and gentlemen, because this is extremely important for the financing of sport. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Miedl, that's not happening!]] As far as the situation on the transfer market is concerned, there is also a lot going on there. – Mrs Haidlmayr: I spoke to President Kartnig at 9 p.m. It is simply false what you are saying here: that Sturm Graz now does not provide disabled places in the course of the Champions-League games. Of course, 20 wheelchairs are available as before. That's true, and not that claimed by you! Mrs. Vice chancellor! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would like to thank you for the initiative you are taking for the situation on the transfer market, for what threatens to happen in connection with football. I am also happy and grateful for Austria being one of the first countries to take the initiative here. If the EU's directives were to actually make school, that would be the death of football. I could not imagine how to continue promoting youth. A single dimension is still due to the fact that sport is all possible: For me, sports have a very high social dimension. All that is invested in sports is actually a saving in the social budget. In my opinion, sports is one of the very few circumstances that are able to act prophylactically. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially with regard to drugs – Mrs. Mikl-Leiter mentioned her – sport is probably the most ideal form of prevention against drugs in young people and, of course, others. I am glad that the "Austrian Ring", the advertising charges, the transfer market, all this, ladies and gentlemen, is being approached very offensively by the Vice-Chancellor. Mr ex-Secretary of State Wittmann could take this as an example. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: I hope not!]] Thank you for the initiative and for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17947	Mr Miedl! "Lug and Trug" is the short form for "lying and fraud". I strongly suggest that we do not do so, even at this time of day! The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e17971	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Now a little rest has returned to the FPÖ. It was so hectic right now. The Vice-Chancellor, the club director, the club director – there must be something new at the FPÖ that such a hustle and bustle exists. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Because you're so soothing!]] The Minister of the Interior has also suddenly appeared. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] There won't be anything? My previous speaker said it was in – what does that mean? – Arnold-Schwarzenegger-Stadion – as a Rapidler, I’m doing so hard with Sturm Graz’s advocating – very likely to give me disabled places. I don't think that even club director Moser believed that there were enough disabled places there. Very right! It is the fact that only 20 disabled places have been built there, and that is quite a lot less than there are normally disabled places in a stadium. I have to say: If you are happy all year round that disabled people can also come to sports – and there is something to do with it – then you should not exclude them even if there is a bigger event. This shows the pure zeal of this sports club! Thank you, Mrs. Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I have to give you the right!]] Secondly, My previous speaker said that no money went to Styria to the "Austrian Ring". – I am now saying as a member of a sports association – not small – which, as I mean, is very important because it represents a basic sport that the representatives of the "Austrian ring" and this sport can very well obtain money. However, there is very little money available for those sports associations that do a lot for broadband and sports that all people can do. That is why I am glad that in the summer of 1999, in the old coalition, we have noveled the gambling law and thus secured the means of sports for today. I do not know whether there would be so much money in this budget for sport. The fact that these funds are available today is still due to the old gambling law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! It should not be said that even if something is good, and that the ban on advertising has been withdrawn, sports associations have been very helpful. I just hope that there is, so to speak, no witch foot at all over which we will still stumble! Now I am speaking again for those sports associations who are not very much in the spotlight of television, but who have to make an effort to promote young people in the exercise of sports with the means available to them. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! But they should also promote something else much more. My group is very pleased that under the then State Secretary Wittmann, a research centre for sport, namely doping, was able to set up in Seibersdorf. We are not only pleased that the first samples are already being sent, so that this research laboratory will receive the full accreditation, but we are pleased that this laboratory will be fully put into operation in 2002 and can thus contribute to preventing a whole, very dangerous phenomenon. In view of the demand for the more, more and more, and more and more, and also because of the fact that a lot of money is to be earned in sports, many people take on the drug. It is therefore particularly important that we also get a base in Austria, where research is being conducted and how dangerous the drug is for people and for sport itself. Therefore, the Seibersdorf project must be supported! You have said today in your statement – I have listened carefully to you – that you want to support the performance centres. – I would be very glad if we could get another performance center for many sports – I take the sports out now – besides the Bundessportszentrum Südstadt, because this one seems to me to be a little too little too little. We also need such a facility as the southern city, especially in the south and west of Austria. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! I would like to mention something that is very important to me and for which I am the author for hundreds of athletes. Since last year – and there was also a commitment from the old government – the project to expand the sports area – I emphasize: to expand the sports area – of Bade Graz Eggenberg. The city of Graz under its mayor Alfred Stingl is ready to expand this bathroom, which is first of all an important leisure facility and second of all a sports bath. For the extension of this sports pool, not only the city of Graz, but also the country of Styria and the Republic of Austria are to play a part. We need this sports pool not only for the young people in Graz, but we need it at all if we also want to continue to be active in swimming in Austria. In addition to the Vienna Stadthalle, we need a second sports venue, which is internationally recognized and where swimming competitions could be carried out over 50 meters. I asked you several times and ask you here and today. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! When can you finally give the Grazers the promise that they will have their sports bath so that hundreds of thousands of people can also exercise their sport in the southern region of the country?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18048	Mr Spindelegger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice chancellor! I do not apply for subsidies, I would just like to make five brief comments on the public service, which is my heart. Point one: I think that the picture, which was again communicated by the public service today, is simply wrong. It is in fact much more colorful, rich and diverse. This includes the nurse, the gendarmerie officer and not only the teacher, but also the helicopter pilot. And from our point of view, everyone is doing a really good job. We stand behind it, and we believe that the services provided by public servants on a daily basis also deserve political support, ladies and gentlemen. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council.]] Point two: Overall, we have all contributed to the fact that the public service has such a wealth of tasks that it cannot handle, and we have all contributed to this – we have to say self-critically today – that the public service has grown too large. We can't afford it anymore. That's why we need to reduce. That is why it is true that there is a programme for this. However, this is to be done by retirement, where posts are no longer re-occupied, as well as by disbursements and privatisations, but not by cancellations. This is a necessary programme, you also have to stand up for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Point three: The privatizations. Mr Pendl or, as I would like to say, comrades Pendl & Co see the object of privatization is only self-evident. Of course, that is not true! Mr Pendl! Even if you think intensively, you should come up with the idea that there are some forms of business that are more private than state-owned. That's the way it is. Maybe it's going to be. You also get to know this wisdom again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] These privatizations will therefore come. It is important to me that there are social plans for those who do not wish to agree to such privatisation. These social plans have also been negotiated in very good agreement with the Public Service Trade Union. They are now also before us as an initiative proposal. – I think it is necessary and right that an employee, if he does not want to understand this, get a chance to leave this company, which is then a private one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] In any case, we see this as a step towards staffing, for which such a possibility is created. I am convinced that there will be many who make use of it. Ladies and gentlemen! Point four: The administrative reform. This has been held many times by the SPÖ. But let's be honest: There is nothing under your rule, ladies and gentlemen! However, I am convinced that now, in the direction of simplification and real deregulation, something will really happen, with laws on time, with new structures being created, without old ones being completely dismantled, but transferred. I believe that the employees need to be motivated to use their know-how, possibly through a special price for administrative reform, because those who work in the administration themselves probably know best where to effectively save. We are in favour of including her, and I think Mrs Vice-Chancellor has chosen this way well: At the last symposium, the Public Service Union was not only invited, but also invited. Fifth and last points: The representation of the public service. Ladies and gentlemen! That this representation in the form of GÖD differs something from the other ÖGB, I am proud of that. It is a trademark for the Public Service Trade Union that one tries constructively to achieve a result for the employees rather than, like the representatives of the ÖGB, getting up from the negotiating table before the negotiations have begun. To this end, we can only congratulate the GÖD! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are currently producing as comrades unionists from the left half of the empire is really putting the floor out of the barrel! Under the title "Human Chain – Don't let that please you!" at the expense of the ÖGB members to all establishments: The government takes away your money every day! The government is giving your money to the rich! The government leaves you in the rain! Ladies and gentlemen! If you can account for this with the contributions of the members of the ÖGB, then bear this responsibility! But I warn you today: Don't drive it too colorful! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There are still many members of the ÖGB who are not to be equated with SPÖ. Make sure you don't lose these members! I'll warn you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you are doing today under the title "Human Chain" and in the style of incitement against the Federal Government has nothing to do with the representation of workers' interests! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's just party politics! That is why I would like to ask you: Return to what the ÖBG is, namely, an extra-party association, and do not abuse it for your cheap polemics against the government, otherwise you will have to pay the bill by having an ÖGB with few members!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18184	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18206	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The words of my previous speaker must not be contradicted. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But that's what I'm excited about!]] I'll hold on to this. The Austrian Trade Union Confederation is still an extra-party association compared to other trade union organisations in other European countries! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Trade Union Confederation represents the interests of workers in this country. Take note of this! [[Abg. Großruck: You abuse the members of the Trade Union Confederation!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I notice: There is a difference between the so-called ÖAAB officials in this House and the small officials of the ÖAAB, the Christian Trade Unions' Group, in the cities and communities. Mr Tancsits! They shake their heads in disbelief. I'll tell you: I experience outside in Salzburg that your officials are talking to me and asking: What does this government intend to do? What are our representatives doing in Parliament? – You betray the interests of the workers! That's what I'm saying with all the clarity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's no one here again! It's not there! Nürnberger's not here!]] Mr Spindelegger! I would really recommend you talk to the little officials outside, who will pull the money out of your pocket! These now have problems, not just because of the budget accompanying law. The small officials, for example, do not know what will happen to their homes. What will happen in the field of BUWOG? You can't buy the apartments! [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't get upset! Think about your blood pressure!]] How can anyone who works for 20 years as a police officer earns 21,000 S gross, receives 6 000 S allowances and has two children as a single parent? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There's no one here again! It's not there! Nürnberger's not here!]] Mr Khol! I'm telling you with all the clarity: You're gonna fall on your head! People know who did this to them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I actually wanted to talk about another subject, namely sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Miedl has spoken about a committed sports policy. – Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! I haven't seen anything from a dedicated sports policy yet! Is there any draft law? A sports law has been announced, and it has been announced that one will deal with sports in Europe. We do not know, for example, how the European Commission will decide on the issue of the European sport article. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! You can answer that. [[Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: I told you this in committee!]] Let us stick to this regulation, because at present I am speaking. I believe that sport in Europe is of particular importance. I also believe that we must wait for European development. We now need to know what Monti and the European Commission call for in the field of amateur and professional sport. I know the UEFA and FIFA proposals. Nevertheless, questions remain open to Austria, such as the question of the cost of training. Or: Do we need a novel of the association law? What about the Helsinki report of the European Parliament? – There are concrete ideas as to how to implement these ideas in Austria. Furthermore, a fundamental problem: How do you keep it with the sports bets and bets from other occasions? Mrs. Federal Minister! Now I actually come to something basic. ==References== In December, you will be presenting the guidelines of Austrian sport at the invitation of Intertops, which is a competition agency, so everyone knows it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Why do you know that?]] There's an invitation, my colleague, Fekter, whom I also got. These guidelines of Austrian sport are not presented in Parliament in the Sports Committee, but at a private event, and I think that is a scandal! Mrs. Vice chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We would like you to present these guidelines to Parliament and not in a select circle where every participant – only for your information – has to pay 960 S participation fee. I really think that's a joke!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18374	Deputies! The same is true of what I said to my colleague earlier.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18389	I'm sorry! I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Socialist Group has always been a leader in the Austrian sports movement. The Socialist Group acknowledges the social function of sport. However, we believe that it is necessary that legal changes or the creation of a sports law are necessary. However, we have not heard from you about these proposals, Mrs Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18446	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18470	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, if you say that workers' representatives in Europe may be more party-political, this is not a legitimacy for the ÖGB to use membership funds for one-sided party propaganda or to throw themselves into a boat with Thursdayschaots! But please, just throw yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would now like to turn to the objectivization and working time. Mr Dietachmayr! Objectiveion means transparency, perceptibility and legal protection. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Workers must not defend themselves!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Mr Dietachmayr! Why are you so upset? Don't be so nervous and hectic! Quiet blood! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: There you can't keep blood quietly!]] Just no hustle and bustle! There's no reason for that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] What has proved for a very long time in the private sector can only be good for the state. That's why it has to be objectivized. In the future, the introduction of independent audit tests and the creation of full transparency in the occupation of posts will be applied. These are new signals from the government. The answer to the question of who will be affected is relatively simple: the federal staff and, of course, the close-to-state sector. The party book economy must be removed from these areas! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of state within the framework of the administrative reform agreed by the government parties is a pioneer in the right direction. Since the government parties have committed themselves to a fundamental reform of objectivity in the Government Convention, there is of course also a need for a rethinking process concerning the working time of the staff. Flexibility means change. But change can be seen as an opportunity and not as a fear potential! Flexibility means change. However, it is important to respect the respective life-form and family requirements of workers. New working time models are an essential task.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18558	Ladies and gentlemen! On the list of speakers there are now two speakers from the ÖVP, two from the SPÖ and one from the liberals. Everyone will talk 5 or 6 minutes. Every point of view can still be represented – but one by one, please! - Please, keep going!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18581	Thank you, Mr President. The calls are not a real problem. If they enjoy it, then they must make calls! Flexible working hours must not go at the expense of sun and holiday rest and not at the expense of safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What can be achieved by flexibilization? – Higher economic efficiency and competitiveness, better employee orientation, positive employment orientation and, above all, result orientation instead of time orientation. Important examples of the design of flexible working time from Upper Austria must also be implemented at the federal level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, the Upper Austrian road championships with their 1 400 employees have been working with flexible working time models since April 1999 and since 1. In January 2000, all 21,000 national officials work in flexible models. This results in positive experiences for both sides, employers and employees. Not least because of these flexible working hours, it has succeeded in reducing overtime by 20 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Decentralized decision-making and responsibility structures – one of the key pillars of the policy of the EIA, rural policy – are essential for flexible working hours. In this context, it is important that in future more attention should be paid to improving the compatibility of family and work and that a new flexibility should be given to determining day, week, year and lifetime. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a final comment on today's debate, which has been very intensive about budget figures and about history: In this discussion, I have really confirmed that the SPÖ is a party that lives in the past, and if it continues to do so, it will probably have little future!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18637	Mrs Schasching is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18658	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! With the budget accompanying laws now adopted, the government coalition has clearly demonstrated that it wants to go back to the past and return to an Austria from before 1970, with all appropriate measures. They believe in people's reduction in education, social reduction, decommissioning measures and social provisions! You have proved that, but not that we are retroactive! It is immense what your colleague is telling you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there are still some answers in the existing debate, for example in the context of the fact that, as Mr Maier said, the Austrian sport’s model will be presented at an event of a private betting agency. I would also like to ask the Minister for Sport to do this: How about perhaps even calling up the Sports Committee on this issue in the course of this year? This would be the right place to discuss a model of sport. This would be an opportunity for the FPÖ to use the outgoing chairman of the Sports Committee, the former and now re-appeared Member Fischl. We are already very excited whether he will be again chairman of the Sports Committee or whether he will be Mr Grollitsch or Mr Ortlieb. If you can agree on this at some point, we are already very excited and we are pleased to discuss in detail the guiding principles for Austrian sport within the framework of this Sports Committee, because that is what I think belongs to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that today we have tabled a motion for a resolution which aims to get away from the legislation, which would be very positive in order to repair in connection with the Advertising Tax Act what the government means by the motto 'Speed kills' to the Austrians, namely all those who work in voluntary sports clubs and who have really faced an insoluble problem with this advertising tax law. But if, for example, the ÖVP member and Lower Austrian colleague Mikl- Leitner says that it was her success or the joint success of the ÖVP that one has found this agreement, then I can only say: If you hadn't acted so fast before and decided on all these laws, but before you thought about who you were doing with them, then you wouldn't have to start repairing now! Do this with the help of all that God is thanks to good associations and associations that we can rely on and that should really speak on this subject in the assessment period! It was mainly the public authorities, the BSO, the ÖSV and, of course, the umbrella organisations that have been very active there. That is also good, and it is very important for our volunteers to come to a common solution. A comment on the budget figures that are available to us. My colleague, Mr Haidlmayr, has already held it, and in this respect I absolutely agree with her: At the present time, a standstill must certainly be equal to a step back. For example, within the framework of the Women's Sport budget, you have only the same amount of 3 million left, which has also been in place in the last two years. But as I said, Standstill's back! We certainly need more resources in this area! We certainly also need – this is absolutely necessary! – Promotion programmes and guidelines, because there are still far too few women in the coach sector, there are still far too few officials and far too few girls who can and do really want to get involved in sports! Austria has undertaken to act in all areas in accordance with the gender mainstreaming criteria. This obligation exists with regard to the EU and also internationally in accordance with the Beijing Plus Five Treaty. That is why I ask you to keep this up in sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All areas of social life should be reviewed as to whether they are suitable for women and whether there are appropriate women's promotion programmes. We will certainly not get tired of demanding this again and again! In this sense, I would like to say: Austrian sports policy is far from on the right path. The reason for this is certainly not – as was accused of here – failure in the past! When I imagine what has been discussed and debated here and today, I can only hope together with our many volunteer officials and umbrellas that sports will continue to retain this value in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18733	The next speaker is Mrs. Vice chancellor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18755	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier. I would like to make the following point on your statement. ==References== December in Salzburg is an event held in cooperation with the following organisers: "Kronen Zeitung", ÖSV – Österreichischer Skiverband, ÖFB – Österreichischer Fußverein, IMSP – Institut für Sportmedizin, supported by various sports companies. One of the sponsors of this event – not the organizer, but one of several sponsors – is the company Intertops Sportbetten, which is precisely in the sense of your claim that sports betting companies should also invest accordingly in the sport, as on the 1st. December in Salzburg, functionalists, athletes and sports managers in this country will be able to give the opportunity to discuss guidelines for Austrian sport. - First of all, to clarify. Secondly, because the question of sport promotion and sports betting has been raised, I would like to say: You know, the special federal sport promotion has increased from 440 million Schilling in 1999 to 480 million Schilling in 2001. As you can see from the Government Declaration – this is in all our common interest – there will be a further increase, taking particular account of professional associations and the sport of disabled persons beyond the 2003 period. The funding – and you know that, of course, but I like to repeat it here again – is done by increasing the current basis of assessment and involving private bets. Of course, you know that this is not in my competence, because the bets are country-related. I would therefore like to ask you very urgently, in your respective federal states, to work with those responsible there, as well as me, to ensure that something is done in this regard. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One time of federalism!]] On the question of sport and the European Union, which Mr Maier referred to: I also explained in detail in the last committee that I had made a comprehensive presentation of the positions of the Austrian Football Federation, but also of the Austrian Federal Government on these issues at the Paris Sports Ministerial Conference. There I have found the agreement of all my colleagues, so that you can assume that the European Union will find a solution in the sense of what you have addressed, namely replacement of training costs and the like, because this was the common position in the interests of all sports ministers there, as I have told you in the committee accordingly. If you haven't heard my suggestions, it's not because I didn't make them, but maybe that's what I'm saying. They didn't listen or want to hear it. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You said something else!]] I am very sorry, Mr Maier.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18812	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Mayer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18850	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has now claimed that there are several sponsors for this sport discussion I have been discussing in my speech. I have the official invitation here, and I'll show it to you. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, Mrs. Vice chancellor also has her in her hand!]] That's just about Intertops. Intertops is a betting agency. The entire invitation does not show that other sponsors are involved. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What does that cost?]] [[Further calls.]] I'm holding on to something else: There are only two associations represented, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, namely the Ski Association and the Football Association. The so-called by-sports, the peripheral sports were in no way taken into account. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer.]] Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18917	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e18971	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! After listening to you now, Jacky Maier, I'd say in the football language: You've made a step on your thigh once again. You don't do that with women, it doesn't belong! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We will realize that men are obviously allowed to step on the shin!]] I would like to go back to the subject, and the subject is sport. I think it is very positive that we have a new minister who is very committed to disabled sports, to paralympics, but also to sports medicine. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! But I would also like to raise your awareness of something new, which from my point of view is very important, namely sports in old age. Now you'll all smile and ask: What do we need that for? The average Austrian believes that only young, dynamic, slim people belong to the fitness centre. I always say as a doctor, but also as a sports doctor: Actually, the completely wrong people are in sports. The average Austrian also believes that it is sport when he watchs with a beer in his hand Hermann Maier on TV. I'm telling you, that's just the wrong way of life. If you did that right, everyone could benefit. But this has a social policy component that we absolutely need to see. I'll give you four points that show why sports in old age could be very important for everyone, for you and for me. We could, if we were to move regularly, postpone our need for care by four years and be only half as needy at age. This is a very important knowledge compared to what we are doing today in health policy: We always see that people in the hospital have a beautiful, white bed as beautiful as possible. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I've heard the speech three times!]] Four times you hear it, five times if you want! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: I'm interested! That's why I noticed!]] Secondly, You can, if you move four times a week for 30 minutes, reduce your heart attack frequency by half. Thirdly, you haven't heard that yet, I tell you now: If you regularly move – this is especially important in old age – then you can fight a very important factor, namely depression and loneliness, as in no other way. Fourth – completely new –: We know today that there is no drug that is as stimulating to brain circulation as movement. Two thirds of the Austrians do not move at all, and at age it is well over 90 percent. We from the government have freed 100 million schillings for prevention with the Healthy Austria Fund. This is actually relatively little in a system that spends 215 billion schilling. If the Austrian sport only sees as something they do on the National Day, then that is too little. We're going to need sports in old age, and age is well over 60 for me. [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Rasinger!]] If we see that, we'll deal with this megatheme. It will be important for financial reasons, but also for every individual for quality of life.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19064	The next speaker is Mr Faul. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19085	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Werner Miedl, I actually didn't quite understand why you came out here and exploded like a racing car with engine damage when it comes to Austria's ring. My knowledge – perhaps you suffer from an information emergency – has flown more than 100 million schilling into Spielberg's infrastructure. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has pointed out several times: At the time, the agreement was not a matter of demanding and lubrication the double resources – infrastructure plus expansion of the Ö-ring. Mr Grollisch! For the payment of funds from Nagano: State Secretary Wittmann assured me that these funds for the disabled were provided immediately after the Olympics. Mrs. Vice chancellor! You will not believe it, but I have also discovered a positive aspect of your government participation in the fact that in your sports department you were not allowed to put on the thumb screws by your Minister of Finance and that the sport has been excluded from these savings measures. Notable today is your attitude to the roof associations, which is why we are always in the hair. You have today in recognition of the many members, the trainers who do their work free of charge there, excluded from your criticism. But Mr Schweitzer will still speak, and this can still change; we will see. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] It is also to be hoped that you will get your attitude beyond the 2002 budget year. I am thinking here in particular of the Ministries-Glücksspielsgesetz, which was made at the time by Federal Minister Edlinger and State Secretary Wittmann, in order to provide the Austrian sport with 400 to 500 million Schillings a year. Mrs. Minister! We have discussed with you in the Sports Committee the problem of newspaper dispatch and the resulting burdens on the clubs. I should like to urge you to step up this time bomb, which begins to tick in 2002, and may also provide you with a thoughtful approach. Perhaps there is a similar solution here as in the case of advertising, so that a decision can be negotiated on benefits for the non-profit associations. The associations need this money to provide their members with their information cost-effectively. On the issue of the implementation of the exclusive rights of television, you have remained guilty of many answers, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. In this way we call for the implementation of this Regulation to be based on fair division criteria and not on the principle of the personal appreciation of regions and types of events. In the sense of the Austrians who are interested in sports, it must be ensured that large and significant sporting events can be transmitted by Austrian channels and that people in Austria are not forced to view these programs via pay-TV channels for additional services. With regard to the importance of football for our country, it is also necessary to ensure financial viability, and the associations must be guaranteed market-oriented fees for their transfer rights in the future. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Now on a topic that connects sport and teachers, staff: In a poll before the National Council election on the topic of school sports, you, the FPÖ and colleague Grollitsch of the often here in this House, have called for: the teaching of sports in the public school and in the preschool, the introduction of a daily movement unit for the 6- to 14-year-olds, the cooperation of the body teachers with the teachers, the parents and the school doctors, and in the end also an increase in the number of school sports weeks. The way it really looks, you showed us again today. This is evident in a radical reduction in teachers' hours, in a radical insistence on saving tens of thousands of teachers' posts, and also in your radical handling of the description of teachers' hours and of the teacher's working time. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! All these measures are certainly not suitable to promote school sports in the sense of prophylactic importance for health care in children and adolescents. Just one approach to your personnel policy: You disappointed us, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, and you disappointed the people in our country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No, no, no!]] We hope you will continue to be disappointed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19139	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19160	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, sometime during the day, the sports spokesman of the ÖVP, Karlheinz Kopf, has sent me a football quote collection. I really read them with enthusiasm and amused myself very well. In fact, I find here some quotations which also apply to the debate that has now been concluded. I think the SPÖ has done the same for this debate as Rolf Rößmann at the time for a football game before which he said – and that is what the SPÖ has done for today –: And if we don't win here, at least we'll break your lawn! – For example, your debate has started today. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As Mr Maier finally came out and made an actual correction – Olaf Thon fits well with that, colleague Maier, who said: People are being honed up with facts that do not correspond to the truth. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was similar in this story with the program. It was not true that as the only politician or as the only representative of politics, Mrs. Vice chancellor Susanne Riess-Passer would have been present, but there were good acquaintances there from you, for example Dr. Raus – who should have been a term for you – or Mayor Dr. Harm. They're not that far from you! So no mention of the fact that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor would have been alone! Damage, Raus, SPÖ, lawn broken – well, good! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now only the evidence is missing that you have actually been first and foremost about breaking the well-kept lawn. – There is, for example, a well-intentioned motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Noldi Grabner with Dr Wittmann, but in it you demand something that has long happened, accords with all the umbrella associations: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: What they rejected in the budget accompanying law!]] Non-profit Clubs are excluded from all of this! Dear Noldi! Advertising at international sporting events, which has been initiated or tolerated by the organiser, is not subject to advertising charges. In the case of direct sponsoring services to sports clubs and to bodies, fire brigades, mountain rescue and similar organisations referred to in § 176 and so on, no taxable advertising shall be assumed if a bouquet of services, including non-taxable services, is included. Dressing, band advertising at sports clubs: not due! The whole is even retroactive from 1. In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions What you're asking for is long ago reality! [[Abg. Grabner: That's not true!]] So: Breaking grass was your motto with which you went into this discussion. Under this motto you have also submitted this request. Last to my colleague Herbs: For four years, you haven't taken anything further with the mountain bikers. Now you come out and complain? – We had a great hearing with all the experts. After the outcome of this hearing, we said: This is a complex issue, and we will discuss this complex subject in a specially set up subcommittee and discuss the further procedure. But you're going around here, so there's someone here for the hunters and against the mountain bikers! This is being discussed for quite a long time. [[Call the SPÖ:Lang, yes!]] It will be debated, and this will eventually result in a result that everyone can live with, colleague herbs. This discussion, like many others, has once again run under the motto for SPÖ: At first we were not really good, we were not persecuted by happiness, and then the bad luck came!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19242	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19278	Ladies and gentlemen! I have said, Mr Schweitzer, that the SPÖ would not have done anything in connection with cycling for four years on forestry grounds. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what I'm excited about now!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That it was bad!]] The right thing is and the fact is that the ÖVP has been preventing this project for five years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19327	The last actual correction of today's day: Mr Wittmann. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague, a short question: How is the Vikerl?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Good, I hope!]] I call Mr Wittmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19396	Mr Schweitzer has claimed that this motion for a resolution is therefore absolute because it would have already been done. This does not correspond to the facts. This completion is only carried out by way of approval. We wanted to put in place a legal system with this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19432	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19462	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen from the Greens and the Socialist Group! Values blue-black chaots! [[Violent calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Is that bothering you? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... you also mention every time!]] [[Further calls.]] It also bothers me if, without any reaction, the expression "saturday chaots" is used permanently from your side. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I don't think that's so funny. [[Interlocutory calls and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I don't think that's so funny. But it shows a lot about your understanding of democracy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] In the course of this debate, among other things, the address of the trade unions is the word "we warn you to do this or that". [[Abg. Haigermoser: Arthur Schnitzler...!]] [[Contradict with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Please, there is something in the bodies either decided or not, but I assume that those who are members of this organization will know how to behave there or what legal protection mechanisms they can enjoy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Austrian flag wanted to take us!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Austrian flag was wanted to be taken from Parliament!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Similarly, Mr Westenthaler seems to be a thorn in the eye that there are still fundamental rights in this country. This includes the right to carry out demonstrations. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There is a great mistake there, and I am surprised that the constitutional judges in the ÖVP, which had been there at all, have become as quiet as if they did not know that in this country it is not so that everything that was not explicitly allowed by the police is forbidden. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Traffic blockages do not belong either...!]] That's not how it is! Therefore...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19650	I call Mrs Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19666	This is a defense of the right to demonstrate. It is in this House, I hope, in agreement on the fact that offences of any kind cannot be tolerated. But that has nothing to do with the Thursday demonstrations, exercising the right to demonstrate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Sure!]] You will not be able to restrict and prevent people in this country, even if you still want it so much. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: If the cars are damaged in front of Parliament, it's too far!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Austrian flag wanted to take us!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If anyone participates in demonstrations and perhaps also does organizational services – I don't know how you think it is when we talk about the tractor chaots that have already been found on the Ballhausplatz. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls.]] Only the many exhaust gases that have come into the air, as this applies to people and buildings – after all respect! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is levelless!]] [[Further calls.]] But it seems to be like this: There are damage and damage. [[Abg. May. Trattner: The defender is levelless!]] It is about democracy, and it is about ensuring that we respect the rules of the game here in a uniform manner. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then stick to it!]] [[Further calls.]] It is not up to you to articulate parts of the population who are very, very many people in the face of unscrupulous statements – I do not need to repeat all those who have already come from government politicians – and thus exercise a very legitimate right. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Demolating is not a legitimate right!]] Of this – to make it a little easier for the President – enormous sporting value of the Thursday demonstrations can only convince those who take part in it. It is really long, extensive hikes across Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19844	Ladies and gentlemen! We must make it possible until the last minute of a National Council meeting that a speaker articulates himself. If others want to speak, they have to report. If the noise level continues this way, you have to interrupt the session briefly until everyone has calmed down again. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... referred to as "Chaoten"!]] Please continue, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19884	It is not up to you to call anything that may not fit you, which contradicts your political conviction, "unlawful", "forbidden" or even negatively occupied expressions like "chaos". If it were so that everything that is not expressly permitted by the police is forbidden, then you could explain and resolve any people's collection – for example, people who work at any business opening to make a cheap purchase, or those who occasionally "completely organized" on Friday afternoon on the belt, on the tangent or otherwise where there is a jam – as illegal. It's not like that! The police can resolve an event when it comes to other rights or if there is a risk of peace, order and security. But that's something completely different. That is why in recent days, Mr Schweitzer, there are some really funny chaos questions here in the house. That it is the case that, for example, certain police supplies are also sent to those concerned, this is rather a mark of a rule of law. But with this kind of chaos that you seem to preach, you have far away. One last thing: They all have now conjured the need to do something for young people, sport and broadband. [[The speaker shall hold an advertisement at the height on which the head of a child is pictured.]] If I look at this poor child you shared in a picture, partly grey, partly yellowish – in total, all these little kids who put you in your ads across Austria cost 80 million schilling! – then I can only say: How right you are, thanks to this Federal Government, so young and so advocate – that is what I call a form of chaos!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19937	No one is in the word anymore... – I apologize. There's another name on the screen, I've overlooked it. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e19991	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in this debate, the services of public servants and their evaluation by the Federal Government were discussed. [[Abg. Achatz: You didn't hear the debate! You weren't there!]] Mr Spindelegger warned, among other things, the ÖGB in this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Right!]] Mr Spindelegger and all Members of the Coalition Party! Please note: The overparticipality of the ÖGB does not determine... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He's no longer extra-partial!]] It shows your democratic understanding that you can't even listen. The overparticipality of the ÖGB does not determine the ÖVP or the FPÖ, nor the SPÖ, nor the Greens, but only the members of the ÖGB. No one else, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Members who have wanted to represent their interests, members who – no matter what political view they belong to – also articulate their interests! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: First elections in the ÖGB...!]] [[Further calls.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just as clear and clear it has also been expressed here, not for the first time and probably not for the last time, because you do not want to hear it: The ÖGB also does not determine the federal government sitting here. That's the voters, these are the political parties. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God!]] Take note that you too cannot determine which interests of the ÖGB represent! This is the matter of the members and no one else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud that there are unanimous decisions in the ÖGB, since it exists, on really important questions, whether this is economic or social, or whether it concerns collective treaty negotiations, each of which is unanimous – even if you do not! There are unanimous decisions with the participation of the representatives of the Christian group and of the liberal workers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are unanimous decisions here too!]] That just doesn't fit in with your concept. And I'm also proud that it's also for the human chain. Decisions adopted unanimously on 1 December. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You bear the responsibility for this action!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are unanimous decisions that do not fit you either, because they are advocating to the Chambers of Workers, whether they belong to the ÖAAB, the FPÖ or the Social Democracy, and not those ideas that come from proposals from your Coalition Government. – This is also clearly and clearly written to you in the main book! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I gain more and more the impression that you want line-truly fiber smolders: We are not available for this! If you advertise to the public that three-quarters of the Austrians are not affected, especially those who earn under 30 000 s, then look at the reality you decided last week! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They weren't there!]] You know why I wasn't there. Ladies and gentlemen! These laws concern every citizen of this country, and the process of coalition is getting involved in a situation that threatens to escalate. I say this again for all those who have not listened to it for thought. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Just say the word "sport" once!]] We debate public service and sport, take note of this! If you still do not want to do so, Mr Spindelegger, I will tell you: This is an original quote from Mr Neugebauer today! Do not say, therefore, that only the Social Democrats are involved! I am proud that Mr Neugebauer is also taking part in this demonstration! Yeah, we're at the negotiating table! You'll find us at the negotiating table. But we get up if you don't want to negotiate, if you're really just trying to lead down-to-earth negotiations, as this government often shows under the motto "Speed kills". We are taking a position on the concerns of the workers, but not on the call, but in a proper procedure. I'll remind you. Your assessment periods, which you arbitrarily put in the room here. We are not available for sham negotiations, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! I am not available at your constant calls, but I should be relinquishing my mandate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That would be good!]] Mr Khol! My mandate does not come from you, my mandate does not come from the ÖVP and not from this coalition government, but from the voters, and I am only responsible for it. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e20206	I now conclude the debate that we have now held. The rapporteur did not ask for a final word. That is why we come to the vote, and we are voting on the Advisory Group XIII of the Federal Proposal for 2001. This includes the chapter... [[Violent calls and countercalls at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] We are in a voting procedure, and I am therefore very briefly interrupting the sitting so that you can calm down.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e20245	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the session and remind you that if an error occurs in a vote, the devil is loose. That is why we must be able to concentrate on votes at 23:15 a.m. for 20 seconds. The vote shall include Chapter 70 of the Federal Estimate in 310 of the Supplements. I should like to ask that those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this chapter 70 of the Federal Proposal give a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that we vote in favour of the motions for resolutions tabled at the end of the third reading, not after the third reading, but now in the same capacity. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grabner and Mr Comrades on the legal anchoring of the derogation for non-profit sports associations from the advertising levy. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give Grabner a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. Johann Maierresponsible for the Austrian sport. Here again, I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen who support this request to show this by means of a sign in this regard. – I notice: The application is largely rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-11-28-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00047_d7e20324	I am still announcing that requests 330/A (E) and questions 1578/J to 1586/J have been received at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 29. 9 a.m. on 9 November 2000, with the agenda already announced in writing, Advisory Group XII and IX. – There will be no Question Time at tomorrow's meeting. This meeting is closed.
