ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4416	Ladies and gentlemen! I can give all of you a warm welcome to the 6th. I welcome the meeting of the National Council, which I declare to be open. I ask you to take the seats. The official protocols of the 4th and 5ths. ==References== The European Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. They are therefore considered approved. For today's sitting, as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Gerhard Bauer, Mag. Viktor Klima, Dr. Günther Kräuterand Werner Miedl. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4462	==References== A letter from the Federal Chancellor was received on December 1999, which reads as follows: "To the President of the National Council Mr President. I am honoured to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 23. Dr. Wolfgang Ruttenstorfer, the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance, made his wish on 31 December 1999 at the end of the 31st century. It was opened on 1 December 1999 by the Office." I would ask you to take note of this communication. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4495	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: "The failed coalition pact of SPÖ and ÖVP – a third non-social savings package" Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall be known as follows: Speaking time 10 minutes, then opinions, then debate with a speaking time of 5 minutes each. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4525	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a pretty strange situation we're in today. There are three government parties to which we are facing Greens at the moment: a government party who would like to remain a government was, but it may not be any more soon; a government party which is at the same time opposition party and has announced that we remain in the opposition, and now for the second time around the Federal Chancellor or for posts – this time with the FPÖ, after it has not worked with the SPÖ. And then we still have a potential government party, which, I believe, does not yet know what is on them. As a total opposition, it will soon find itself on the government bank, as a total opposition, which has always and everywhere and at all costs, including the deepest demagogy, which has cast votes against unemployed and foreigners, has cast cheap votes – and now may be in favour of having to fulfill its promises. [[Abg. Scheibner: What are "cheek voices"?]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: You can rely on that!]] I noticed that Mr. Haider made a significant statement today in the 'Morgenjournal'. When asked how the liberals' attitude to the EU was, Mr. Haider said: Well, you can see that as a risk – and that was the case at the time – and the other time you can see it as a chance. Now we see liberals as an opportunity. [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't understood that again!]] No, Mr Scheibner, I do not understand that, and I fear that many people will not understand it. [[Abg. Scheibner: I think so! I'm sure you don't understand.]] Many people will not understand it if you are now negotiating with your government program – I am unfortunately only in a poorly copied version – exactly what ÖVP and SPÖ have negotiated with their unscrupulous load package before. Mr Scheibner, even if you do not increase the retirement age as ÖVP would like – you have already written what will come in place of it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr. Edlinger wants this!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You wanted to support a minority government!]] In place of increasing the statutory retirement age higher reductions in early pensions, the introduction of a bonus malus system, the extension of the necessary insurance periods. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Either – or!]] Yes, what does that mean, Mr Scheibner? That means burden exactly for those who no longer endure these burdens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you a story. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are a fairytale uncle when you tell stories!]] I know a man who worked for 45 years. There are also a few years of war, a total of 45. Then he retired with 60. It wasn't a day too early for him, he was glad he could go to bed. [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't understood it again!]] His pension amounted to 12 000 S. When he died, his wife received a widow's pension. You can calculate it, 60 percent of these 12 000 S gross, which is not even the compensatory allowance rate. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you want to explain?]] This is the situation in which many people are in this country. Do you know what the compensatory allowance rate means? About 7 500 S net. [[Abg. Scheibner: You haven't understood it again!]] This is, of course, also addressed to the address of the still-governmental parties. They, SPÖ and ÖVP, are responsible for the fact that many people with their 45 years of insurance are not doing very well in this country, that they actually have problems to get over the rounds. Or do you really believe that you can live well with 7 500 S as a single person, as a pensioner or pensioner? Faith You really do? Do you really believe that this is a good pension system if you receive 7 500 S – as a grace, as a compensation fee? Is that really your view? No, ladies and gentlemen, we don't have a good pension system, not for those who actually need it, whether it's the 7 500 S or the 9 000 S that a worker, Mr Nürnberger, receives on average. Is that okay? Is that really good? Is that something you can be proud of after 50 years of social democracy? That is why social democracy is in such a pitiful situation! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's not think about it. There will certainly be nothing better to expect from an ÖVP FPÖ coalition than from the Pact, which SPÖ and ÖVP have concluded. Go through this paper – Mr. Khol, you know it! [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] They hardly differ in content from what is contained in this FPÖ paper. What's in this paper? – Beautiful discharge offensives for large companies in this country, hundreds of billions of schilling are to be faithfully saved from the concepts of the Free and the ÖVP here. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: This creates jobs, Mr. Colleague!]] But I do not see the discharges for the small tradesmen, for the self-employed, for the self-employed workers, for the workers of the trades contract in this government package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] The tax relief, Mr Scheibner, will not benefit a person in this country who does not earn even 10,000 s. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I read something to you because in the last few weeks you have always spoken of people in this country until vomiting. [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you say how do you even speak?- Oh, my God!]] "The people in this country" - that was the incitement formula with which one has tried to be closer to the people outside of this country from the ÖVP and from the SPÖ, even though they were as far away as never before, because only posts are chessd. The real interests of the people in this country are as far away from you as anything. So now I'm reading to you what a woman who was a lawyer's assistant wrote to me: "Thanks to the low pay in the firm, my unemployment benefit after termination was 3 300 s per month." – This woman has another child to care for: 3 300 S! And on top of that: "Since I was physically unable to take on a job at the time, I depended on the support of the AMS." I am saving you to list the horrors to which this woman was exposed – and which you still want to intensify, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! And this woman continues to write: "How did I live or how did I survive? After help hours, cleanings, children care – and always in fear, the AMS could come up with these hundreds of people and remove the support and thus the insurance, as was always threatened by the AMS. In November 1998, for four hours a week, I found a small job with a gynecologist for the whole of 1,600 S per month. To finally escape the AMS, I announced the support, and since then I assure myself by a monthly 550 S. In November and December of the previous year, I earned a total of 8 369 p. That's a little over 4,000 s per month, so I'm about 354 s above the limit. Today I received a letter from the Landeskrankenkasse that I have to pay exactly because of crossing this limit 1 160 S. I know. Regulation is mandatory." - Quote. And these people keep you in the mouth, for these people you make politics, as you always say – and have only your ministerial posts in mind?- Oh, my God! These people know what to expect from this government and the potential governments. And I'm telling you on the part of the Greens: Against this course, no matter who packs here, there will be the firm resistance of the Greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4757	The floor was given by the Federal Minister for Finance to deliver an opinion on the subject of the current hour. It's not supposed to exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4779	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! The reason for the current hour required by the Greens is the failed coalition pact between SPÖ and ÖVP and the content that this coalition pact would have had. In fact – and this is not to be debated away –: The pact between SPÖ and ÖVP failed. He has failed, although the SPÖ negotiators have gone very far from my point of view – too far, as some believe. It has failed because, as I believe, the unfit attempt was made, first of all, to continue the necessary consolidation, second at the same time to increase transfers in different areas and third, to significantly reduce the additional labour costs. These objectives, to which we have tried very hard to understand, would have been possible only if there had been relatively rapid intervention in various spending dynamics. Those who look at the dynamics of the budgets in the coming years will notice that we have disproportionate dynamics in some areas of expenditure, such as in the public service, but also in pension subsidies. There is no question, therefore, that, without endangering the systems, certain significant corrections must be made, which guarantee the social dimension of our state, especially in the area of pensions, and the legal certainty of the people already in retirement. The corrections must ensure that you can reach the pension under appropriate and reasonable conditions, and they must not least signal the boys that the Austrian pension scheme also holds for all futures. But I also believe that, apart from the contents, this pact has partly failed to achieve a lack of fairness, partly because, as I can rightly say today, the failure of one of the two partners was planned. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this can also be said in public. Not because I believe it is an existential accident when in a democracy other parties form the government, but because I believe that people in this country should also know the background to this change of government and power: The social democrats and the social component of politics that we have made in this country in recent decades are a thorn in the eye of many. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] With regard to the budgetary policy of recent years, especially the years in which I have been responsible, I would like to say the following: The budget deficits have been halved, the deficits of all three budgets that we have presented have ultimately been lower than in the proposal. The 1999 budget will be reduced by 2 billion. All the budgets I have submitted so far have also been kept. I admit, however, that in the last year in particular, the savings will of many – and I myself and my friends – have been left behind. In this context, you recall numerous promises and benefits that were envisaged just before the election. I mean, venerations. Ladies and gentlemen, that a responsible and a forward-looking budget policy does not bear such promises. Today we will have several more opportunities to discuss this situation very specifically, for example under the first item on the agenda, which contains the excellent 1998 financial statements, or under the second item on the agenda on the consolidation package examined by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one last comment. I have nothing against it at all – this is part of a democracy – that one can deal with content, correct, sometimes hard with proposals politically dissident, but I believe that a minimum of fairness is necessary in such a discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I allow revue to happen, in what unsuitable form the problems we have, because of the fact that there has been no government for four months, have been discussed in the public with regard to the budget forecasts for the year 2000, then, I must say, the path of minimum fairness has been abandoned. This is especially true if politicians of the former coalition partner of my party pretend that they knew nothing about the developments that would occur if they did not make budgetary policy. This is a lack of qualification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A budget or state crisis in Austria is not correct. We are a country with very high prosperity for large sections of the population. The economy is growing, employment is increasing, unemployment is falling, inflation is scarce – and income is growing. These are criteria that I am proud of as a Social Democratic politician because they bear the handwriting of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I hope for the citizens of our country that the coming Federal Government will be able to draw a similar balance after four years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4843	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the opinion within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. We are now entering the debate. In the debate, speaking times amount to 5 minutes. Mr Molterer was the first speaker to speak. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4868	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the sense of fairness and correctness addressed, it is necessary to make clarifications. The Austrian People's Party has led these negotiations to the formation of a federal government with the Social Democratic Party with full commitment, with full openness and with the aim of a result. [[Abg. Grabner: No, no!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! I would like to remind you that, according to the public presentation, both the Bureau of Social Democracy and the Executive Board of Social Democracy have given this package their consent. I want They also point out that only in the course of negotiations between the Austrian People's Party and Social Democracy has the dimension of the budget problem become fully known. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] And it is obvious that some of the representatives of social democracy have only become clear in the course of the negotiations how much the dimension of the problem actually is. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the People's Party, I would like to state clearly that budgetary consolidation is an economic and social necessity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A budget that is not in order, ladies and gentlemen, is a risk to the economic location, is a risk to jobs and is a risk to taxpayers' pockets. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is clear that no government, whoever will form it, can say goodbye to the need for the consolidation course – quite the contrary. The Austrian People's Party will therefore also conduct the discussions that are under way with this aim of preserving the economy, labour and social peace in such a way that the budgetary consolidation is carried out in a socially just manner that the generation agreement and pension provision are also guaranteed for young people in the country, but that it is also clear that the economy needs the mobility that can ultimately ensure our social standard in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me also a clear word: It is indeed true that we are entering a new political phase. It is obviously not easy to say goodbye to the proven, yes, I say it very openly, to also do the farewell of power. I also ask for fairness and correct procedure in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4937	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e4958	Mr President. High house! I've been a Member since 1983. I've heard Bruno Kreisky's farewell speech, and I've experienced the insatiable red-blue coalition. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I was able to follow the many calls made by Jörg Haider from Carinthia to his own people at the time. You will still have to prepare for that if this government is to come about. It doesn't matter if your own people sit in here or not, and it will come this time too. I'm prophesying to you. What affects me is the following – and don't be angry with me if I don't use the opposition rhetoric today, which will probably be essential later on: The ÖVP is a party that has built this Republic with us. [[Abg. Young: The Republic has built up the Austrians!]] It is the party of a Figl, a Raab, a party that is very fundamental and now perhaps goes into a coalition with the FPÖ, with a party in which politics is understood as a game, a party that goes with demands into an election campaign, which it is then ready to drop in the negotiations immediately, a party that plays with the lowest instincts, a party that has also criticized you here, not only concerning individual measures, but also very fundamentally. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: A party that has taken you a few hundred thousand votes!]] We both did this work together. I know that the negotiations are going on now, I don't know how they're going to go out, maybe everything's already done, you'll see. But you will understand that I am one who loves this country and loves the people of that country, and that this is a concern that cannot be taken note of without concern, what is happening here. You know, I also have a reference to democratic practices and values, and it's obscene to me how you have a electoral mandate from the outcome of the 3rd. October in the form as it will appear, read out that perhaps the third strongest party represents the chancellor who originally said that it is going into opposition. But this is not my problem, you will have to explain it to the voters, and I do not even wish you all the best, you will understand. But that will mean a high amount of explanation for you. You're gonna have to change. [[Abg. Oilies: You too!]] This will be a policy that is not fundamental. This will be a policy that is at the same time government policy and opposition. This will be a policy with different distributions of roles. During the speeches in front of me, I observed Thomas Prinzhorn's corny game: He already has that arrogant smile. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] He's not even in the government yet and already has this arrogant smile. They will go to the government, who wants a bloody head to the President of the Federal Republic, with a bloody nose. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: That's what the right one is talking about! Mr. Cap, a "pattern" of modesty in his entire political career!]] These are the people you're going to go to government with. I'm telling you, you should really think about this. And here I agree with Mr Khol – including many of us who have said that – who said this in the television debate on Sunday: It is hard to understand, because we are one of the richest countries. This government has had great success. Abroad respects us. As the strongest party, we have really tried everything that comes to a government. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Everything?]] And now there is this development. I tell you, you will still have a lot to explain, and you will also have to deal with your story if you really need to follow this path. You will also have to be responsible for the growing political system in Austria, where there may also be misdevelopments and perhaps there is also a need to make changes, but in the end it is also a success story. I wanted to say that again today. I'm really sorry. I'm affected. I see politics as a policy of values, as a principle and not as a game, as a poker, as a game of power. I think that the path that has now taken is the wrong one. You're gonna be all right. As one can already survey, the Austrians do not approve of this by the majority. Haider doesn't have a government order. It will be our task to communicate all of this to the population. And we will show constructive alternatives. But think about it again quite well whether you should really get involved with those on a coalition pact!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5060	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5082	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mr Cap, much has not come to your mind about the situation in which your party is currently involved. Mr. Cap, Mr. Federal Chancellor's Climate, first of all, on 3 March. In October, there was a proper electoral downturn and after weeks of negotiations and exploratory talks, no German government was established, but it could not be the fault of President Prinzhorn's mine play. This is not the fault of any liberal policy, but it is solely your fault, Mr Cap, and people of your group who have the signs of time and the signs of the 3. I didn't recognize it in October. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger can see nothing but the cause of a possible change of government than that the social component, as he said, is a thorn in the eye of many in Austria, you simply have the scepticism of the voters – and not just the one on 3rd. October, but during the last 13 years – not recognized. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Cap! You can still blame the liberals and their voters so much, this does not change anything that 600 000 of our voters once were your voters. As long as they were, it was still good, there was still all right, because if you are socially democratic, if you are socialist, then everything is all right. But woe, people once realize that, in truth, your party has lost contact with the people, that in your party the social component has disappeared, that your party was primarily responsible for the feeling that the people have felt that politics is only about the division of posts and power. When people recognize this and overflow in crowds to the liberals who say: We must make a change in this country! We need reforms! We need a positive future perspective again!, then it's evil, then it's undemocratic. And then, as you have threatened, you will also present it to the public and do everything you can to prevent or make it difficult for government work. This should not be the task of social democracy. You, Mr Cap, pointed out in your speech the roots of the ÖVP, the merits of which there would have been and which famous politicians. It's been there in your party, too. And you know very well that many of your voters, your officials, your employees say today, that's not the party we once supported, in whose "family" we have grown up, which has really had a sense of the needs of the people and this country. The result is the results of the election, the choice of your policy on the 3rd. October. But you didn't understand, ladies and gentlemen. They claim to lose the social component. On the other hand, it was your Minister of Finance who hid reality. I could read to you on the part of the Minister for Finance that there will no longer be a third package of savings, that everything will be assured that everything will be financed that the budget is in order. And then, after the election, the reality comes to light in a piece: Suddenly, 63 billion shillings are missing! Maybe it's much more, we'll see. We will make the cash register that we have expected from you, Mr Finanzminister, so that we can really see what the reality is. And then we'll go with imagination to rehabilitate the shrapnel you left behind to the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But with imagination! And not so that you break everything over the knee and simply raise the retirement age by two years without at least having checked alternatives. [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's exactly what your program says!]] Let us simply make Mr Oellinger, as before, tax increases, without seeing whether there are still potential savings. You, Mr Oellinger, say that it will be terrible what comes to the Austrians, and we would have given up everything. We liberals do not give up any principles! [[Abg. Oillinger: You can't do that, because you don't have one!]] We are only committed to our electorate. We will ensure that Austria becomes more free and fair, ladies and gentlemen! They were the only ones who said: Yes, we will support the fact that the Socialists remain in power, even if it is a minority or a single government. They were the first to say: We can imagine that. That your visions – and I say your adventurous visions – can't become a left coalition, a traffic light can't become a reality, even this is a merit of the voters of 3rd century. October. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are now facing negotiations with the Austrian People's Party. We cannot say whether there will be an agreement. In any case, we will do everything we can to ensure that in the future a policy will come that truly respects a social component that brings more freedom, more justice and more openness to this country. And then, in three and a half years, the voters will decide whether he wants your policy of proportion and division of power or whether he wants a policy that is really there for the people and is looking for contact with the population in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5160	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5181	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, economic stability and social security are fundamental concerns for the entire population. We from the Austrian People's Party take this seriously. We will only enter a government if we have confidence and confidence that we can achieve these two fundamental issues, economic stability and social security, with a partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Under these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, we are willing to assume responsibility for Austria. I think it is a political-forming task to acknowledge this political responsibility for the future of a country even in difficult political situations. We are ready, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That these are not empty words has shown the development of the last days. Both of them, economic stability and social security, are concerned with the problem of pensions, the real issue of explosion, which ultimately brought about these coalition negotiations between ÖVP and SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen. This is quite soberly determined to prevent any pre-falling of history falsifications. Federal Minister Edlinger! I meet you in a point, but in a different sense than you meant: In the final phase, negotiations have indeed failed because of a lack of fairness. Because, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is not fair to negotiate intensively for months and then not to accept the outcome of the negotiations and not to sign. This is a lack of fairness, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not fairness, it's also a lack of pact ability. We are willing to take on responsibility, but only with a partner in whom we have the certainty that he is also capable of packing. For renewal, ladies and gentlemen – and that was the voter's signal on the 3rd. October – the renewal includes two things: first of all, the political will – the one I put under Mr Bundeskanzler Klima – and second, the political power to implement it. And, unfortunately, he didn't. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's recapitulate very briefly. In the end, there were three facts: Lack of fairness: If important negotiators do not sign and, after weeks of negotiations, de facto distance themselves from the outcome of the negotiations, that is not fair. Secondly, we should insist: It was the Federal Chancellor who explained on television: Negotiations have ended. Not for example, Mr. Vice-Chancellor said: We do not continue to negotiate, it was the Lord's party-chairing climate that said: Negotiations with the EIA have failed! . Let us not make history falsifications, Mr President, because you are looking at me like this. It was the Federal Chancellor, the SPÖ Partyman who said that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a third fact: It can't be denied – everyone can be the tape of the "Mitagsjournal" of 11th. Listen to January – it was Mr Finanzminister's proposal to raise the early retirement age by two years. What are the chances of a minority government, if not even its own trade union group, of what your Minister of Finance proposes, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, politics is future design. It is the opposite of future design, if your own party friends are not prepared to contribute important to social security, to the stability of the country, ladies and gentlemen, important future issues. In view of that, unfortunately, we had to say: Under these conditions, we cannot continue to work with this partner, with whom we have had very successful stages of cooperation – I am sure. Mr Cap, I am of your opinion: We have had very successful stages! And one, Mr Scheibner, I must say: A scorpion won't be left here. I would like to say that very clearly. [[Abg. Scheibner: 63 billion schilling at budget exits are also not exactly a top performance!]] We have had very successful stages, but we have also had depths. And now the fact that after weeks of negotiations, the political power was simply not available to move us to say that we are taking a different opportunity. Every chance is also a risk – we know that. In the interests of the country, we are willing to assume responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5256	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5277	Mr President. Members of the Even-Bundes-Government! High house! It is already amazing to hear in all openness these sounds and these accusations, which have actually been there for years – at least behind the scenes. Only here in the high house was always oneness played out. You, Mr Finanzminister, said you assumed that the failure of these talks was planned. In fact, I think it is not just insiders and insiders of politics who cannot resist this impression. Alone – in all openness, Mr. Finanzminister – in the development in which it could have come so far that apparently only negotiations were conducted in order not to have the black Peter as far as possible, either to break new elections from the fence or to break out of this power cartel, you have a wretched degree of co-responsibility. I'm wondering, and it came from your neighbor Molterer's objection: You have approved this by a large majority. My question is: How far could it come that we are now facing a development to which you have certainly contributed that we will probably be talking about such papers in the future, such as the outcome of the negotiations from the point of view of the ÖVP or the idea programme already mentioned by Karl Oellinger of the FPÖ? [[Abg. Scheibner: Where is your reform concept, Mrs. Colleague?]] If you can read, you can get it. [[Abg. Scheibner: I can read, but I don't know what there is! You haven't submitted anything yet!]] But now I'm dealing with your ideas. There is above all a chapter which is completely missing in both papers, although it has played a central role in the election campaign, namely the area of women's policy. Women are usually found in families, among family benefits, but there is no independent women's policy. It's not available either! What's happening here is something very bad! And you'll probably still hear: They voted by a large majority. What principles did you not all give up? It was bad enough that there was a very successful women's people's desire, a genetic engineering popular desire and a popular animal protection desire that you shubble. With this coalition pact that has now been put into place – which will probably still be more intense if I look at the programmes of the two now negotiating parties – you have not only implemented the women's people's desire, but you have fully fallen into the back of the women's people's desire! You did the opposite! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is a great deal of concern for women in this country according to all surveys, and that means independence. Of course, women also want to live in families. A large majority of women also want children, they want to reconcile work and family. But above all, they want to be able to decide on their own self-employment, even on their life-planning, their life-design. And then I read in this paper that you carried with you by a large majority: Conversion of the cash benefit from an insurance to a family benefit. To bravo! In addition, the women depend on the randomity of their husband's income. If you find something unfair about taxation, especially the high income, the high wealth, then must You put it there, not the women of perhaps rich men! The fact that you signed that the women's interests – for whatever reason – were still represented more by the metal tradesman Nuremberger than by the women's minister – is the bitter result. Apart from all that will now be added: You've gone too far here! The reasons why this pact, apart from the possible unreasonable motivation of the partner, has failed from your side, are not, for example, the lack of women's policy, not the lack of social policy content, but ultimately a question of postage. That too, I fear, will be hanging. I read something to you – because these are not just the programmes of the Greens – that other countries with higher participation have other social systems. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Internationally, we are not so bad!]] That is, we spend a lot of money without paying attention to the independence of women and young people. This one of your taboos, which, I fear, will make us very much in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5360	The next speaker is Mr Nürnberger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5381	Mr President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the ÖVP has seriously negotiated with the SPÖ does not believe anyone in this country anymore. [[Abg. Schwarzböck: You believe that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Heinz Fischer presented this quite differently!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Of course, the refusal of my signature to the ÖVP has come very close. I have outlined my position in this week's editions of "format" and "profile". Time does not allow me to go closer to it. I just want to hold here – and I've always acted like this, my entire professional life: If I sign something, I stand by it, then I guarantee that those I represent will also carry this pact. But let me point out on the subject of pensions that the ÖVP did not go straight, but a zigzag course. "Pensions are safe in the long term": ==References== September. It is the largest bowl in the world. September: "With a courageous pension reform, the government has ensured that pensions are secured." And because Minister Edlinger has always been subject to the proposal: ==References====External links== December 1999 of discounts at early pensions, retirement age increased! And because it's always said that I had negotiated the question of pensions: I didn't negotiate with her. It was always negotiated in the budget group and was only once, on 16 June. January at 16.35 p.m., in the upper group. After a discussion with Federal Minister Molterer, he said: "If two years' pension doesn't come, we'll leave the table." This question was rejected, ladies and gentlemen, not only by a few social-democratic trade unions: Mr Neugebauer, the representative of the entire trade union Public Service, is not a member of the party I belong to. Teachers have articulated and talked about strike. The Gendarmen held business group meetings. I could read to you a letter of the standing of the highest officials in this country, the judges and prosecutors, in which they express their opposition. Wide circles of the population have rejected these proposals. At this conscious plenary session on 16 February. The ÖAAB-Obmann, Mr Fassleven, was also present in January. I asked him to say at last how this problem is being discussed in his circles. He's been silent. That's the difference: I don't understand by the interests of the working people that you're silent, but I'm used to saying my opinion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Please consider what that means: Nürnberger should sign and give the commitment to those representatives who are close to the trade union. – On the other hand, it is always proclaimed by the free mandate, by the representative who can decide freely. I am convinced that many of my fellow Members, who do not have a close relationship with the trade union, would not have understood it if I had committed them to my signature, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Pröll said literally on television: The Federal Chancellor does not control the trade unions. – I would like to say to you: I do not want to live in a country in which the Federal Chancellor – no matter what the party he belongs to – has the trade unions "in his hand", ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying: The Austrian Trade Union Confederation has always known – and is now committed to – that the problems related to the budget need to be solved. My personal attitude on the pension question can be For example, just read it in a "profile" interview – I don't have anything to add to it. We are committed to the reorganisation of the budget, but not to the flaw that would have been provided for in this government agreement. I am just thinking about the fact that the representative of the Economic Federation of Lower Austria has said that 70 percent of the demands of the economy have been met, and so on. Therefore: We confess to that, but that must be justly distributed to all people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can tell you: The Austrian Trade Union Confederation and its trade unions will, as in the past, assess every government in the future according to what it is willing and able to do for the workers of that country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5463	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5485	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Today we have experienced a winery premiere of Mr Cap. I think he is now practicing in the role of the opposition politician, although it is obviously not yet that far. But, ladies and gentlemen, why did it actually break this coalition? – Mr Finanzminister, I must say quite honestly to you: Neither the liberals nor other parties here in the house have brought the trade unions into turmoil like the SPÖ. I think only of the former Minister of Finance Lacina, who at the time succeeded as social democrats and trade unionists in driving the so-called sweeping machine over the workers and employees so that the trade union has migrated to the Ministry of Finance. That was not a politician of the ÖVP, it was not a politician of the FPÖ, but that was yours – yours! – Colleagues from the Social Democratic Party! That is why the Social Democratic Party has lost its way – the way to represent the socially weak here in the country – over and over again in the last elections. That's the reason! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I always hear, Minister of Finance: Austria is the third largest country in Europe, the eighth largest country in the world. – But we have a budget situation that is simply extremely dissatisfying! Not only is the budget situation assessed by the liberals in this direction, but the highest monetary guardian, the governor of the Austrian National Bank Klaus Liebscher, says in an interview with the "format", the state finance situation is "very, very serious". – On the question of how he would describe the state of the state budget, Liebscher says: "If nothing changes, as very, very serious, yes worrying. If nothing happens, we are clearly in 2000 the EU, the worst of all 15 Member States, and that is actually shocking. And dangerous for the location Austria." That is a very clear statement, which is obviously a fact! You, Mr. Finanzminister, are primarily responsible for this situation. You can't just move this to the individual department representatives, but you're the one who needs to watch the budget and has observed how the budget goes wrong over the past few years, and you just haven't responded. You have therefore acted dangerously when, after you have withdrawn 160 billion schilling from the Austrians in the last three years, you have not been able to finance a tax reform in the order of 30 billion in good times. That means you didn't pay attention to the Austrian taxpayers' money! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They were the one who's just responsible for it. If you have also criticized the fact that it is between the different positions in the budget plan or in the final implementation Divergences are: I am just thinking here – we are coming to talk about it today in the discussion on the federal accounts – that in the Federal Chancellery we have a so-called commemorative value of 1 S – or was it 1 000 S? – has used a position for EU funding, and then 650 billion schilling has come out! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: billions?]] Please? [[Federal Minister Edlinger: 650 billion?]] 650 million schilling – excuse me! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Is Wurst!]] No, that's not meat, but, Minister of Finance, these are things that just don't go! [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But there I am glad that this is not sausage!]] I can't set positions with 1 000 s, and in the final effect 650 million schillings come out! And that wasn't the only position. Here are just things to question like: Is the budgeting correct? Is the planning right? Can we go to plenary with this planning, and can we let this budget be decided here? – The way in which you decided on the budget or repeatedly reached the so-called "point landings" reminds me of a mathematical example of a schoolwork in which five or six serious errors are inside, and by chance the correct result comes out. – That’s exactly how your budgets have been implemented in the final effect! Mr Finanzminister! It would not have been necessary to start a third package of savings now if you had risen to the brake in good time and had responded in time to the Court of Auditors' instructions – and also many experts – by saying that these one-time measures are quite good and quite nice, but the structural measures must subsequently be implemented so that the budget does not get out of the joints. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] This is the criticism that we continue to practice in you. We will then be able to speak to more details at the end of the invoice, but one can already be said here: You said something different to the Austrian people before the election than what you have to do afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5580	The next speaker is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5605	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would just like to make two sentences on the comments made by my previous speakers: I would like to say to colleagues from Nuremberg: Mr Commissioner, we also do not want a situation in which the Federal Chancellor has the trade unions "in his hand" – of course we do not want to do so! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] But, my colleague, you must not go personally to a negotiating team in your role. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have to say that your words actually represented massive criticism of the other SPÖ negotiators. I would also like to ask Mr Cap – he is not here now – to forward his appeal, which he has expressed here today, to Mr Schlögl. Or has he already addressed this appeal to him? Now on today's subject. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The central question of the discussion we experience on the spot with our voters is the question – or the fear or also the anger – which always revolves around the so-called "Edlinger package". [[Call the SPÖ: The anger about the ÖVP!]] As a mandater, I cannot accept, Mr. Finanzminister, that you are only at a time when the next government should already stand firm with the full truth about the budget figures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have completely insecured the people with two announcements. The first of the announced measures concerns a reduction in discretionary expenditure among the ministries, which has fatal effects in individual areas – including school – and the second measure provides for the increase of the retirement age in early pensions within two years. This means a heavy blow to all concerned against their life planning, a heavy blow to the principle of trust. [[Abg. Edler: What did Mr. Schüssel say?]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Tell the Mr. Schüssel!]] Federal Minister! ==References== In June 1999, from the government bank, it was found that no one needs to make an effort to follow lines of argument where the question of how high the budget hole is, unless, of course, there is none. - That's the original quote. They then held this all summer and, as Members of this House, weighed us in this security, so that questions and, of course, concerns about another package of savings were actually flattened or we tried to say that there is no need to be any fears in this direction. – How do we stand today as mandates? I'm going to blame you for It was only at the beginning of the exploratory talks, that is, after the election, that the President of the Federal Republic – I have taken it from the press – informed you that there is a budget hole, namely, in the amount of 20 to 27 billion schilling for the year 2000. Within the framework of the Budget Committee on 19 November, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. In January 2000, you, Minister of Finance, found that the funding gap in 2000 was 20 billion and would grow to 63 billion schilling by 2003 without counter-taxation – if policy did not act. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Without counter-control!]] In the course of the government negotiations, however, it has been shown that these budget gaps require an additional financing effort of 45.5 billion schilling for the year 2000 and that, if no measures are taken, it is likely that there will be an increase of 63 billion schilling by 2003. Mr. Federal Minister! I ask you: What did your colleagues from the SPÖ say? I'm making it even easier: Did you know about these things, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party? - We didn't know! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Silhavy and Mr Huber.]] But we owe an answer to the electorate, and we have – and this is particularly disappointing to me – trusted the Minister of State in his statements. [[New calls of the Agg. Silhavy]] We have trusted him that he understands his handling, and we have acted on this basis and have actually had to disappoint our voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger.]] We all know about demographic developments, and we have repeatedly noted... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5709	Please put to the end, Mrs Colleague!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5724	We have repeatedly pointed to demographic development, but They have mocked and ridiculed us and have not allowed timely action! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oberhaidinger]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have prevented improvements for workers! You have...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5755	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5770	... – I know, Mr President – a more favourable handling model prevents! We want those concerned to know about measures in good time. They understand that, but it must be moderate, and it must be reasonable to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5812	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5832	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This current hour deserves a new title: "Der Divorce Report." When I look at the calculations and the various interpretations of the past few weeks, I have to assume that the Members who have spoken now speak of different events. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: There are also several events!]] Obviously they did not find themselves in the same negotiations, and obviously the EIA has been missing for many years at government meetings and in negotiations on the budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] Because if it has even reached Tyrol that there are and will be problems with the budget, then from my point of view it is quite surprising why the rulings of the ÖVP in the government have not come along. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: To Vorarlberg!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The use of a calculator is probably nothing new on this side of the Reichhalten. They have talked about the failure of a risk project, a risk project in which an agreement between ÖVP and SPÖ is very clear – and this can be read above all on women's policy and on the issue of pensions – which will be possible on precisely these issues, such as solutions, mesh-compliant solutions, budget-compliant solutions in this area. But the whole thing fails in favour of a high-risk project, a high-risk project insofar as I expect two things with special tension: This is initially the interpretation of the past by the People's Party. It has already been noted today that, while Members of the Liberal Party believe that they are still proud of the successes of recent years and decades, they are taking on a sniper pile, ÖVP delegates. There will need to be a phase in the process of dealing with the past between these two parties until we reach an agreement on what we are actually building on. But with great excitement, ladies and gentlemen, in the area of pensions, I am waiting for the former anti-privileged "anti-privilegeds" of the liberals to meet with the defenders of the privileges of the well-deserved officials on the top floors, how the common solutions will come. I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that it is going to happen again as it has already been in this pact with the Social Democrats, because it is a solution that is going to come at the expense of the young, young officials, the new entrants, those who will no longer be able to do anything from the system, but who will have to take over the burdens for this system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is emerging here – and this will be the second exciting point – is an archival policy, especially towards women, which will only allow privileges in specific areas. Here again, I will look with special enthusiasm at how the representatives of the staggering links and the representatives of the Catholic connections will be among themselves, who will occupy the top jobs in administration and bureaucracy. At one point you can be quite sure of this construction: Women won't be there!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5899	There are no more words available. This concludes the current hour. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e5920	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6125	In addition, I announce that the first and the Second report of the Incompatibilities Committee to the members of the National Council. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6146	I am entitled to announce that, according to § 74a GOG, the Green Club has made a request, prior to the entry into the agenda, to urgently deal with the self-employed motion 60/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Pilz and comrades concerning Austrian neutrality, European unification and the immediate implementation of a popular survey. According to the relevant provisions which I do not need to refer to now, this urgent request will be called at 3 p.m. for business management. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6170	We are now going into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 136 minutes, Freedom and People's Party per 128 minutes, Green 88 minutes. The National Council is to be found on this issue. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That is what we have decided unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the financial statements (III-1 of the Supplements) for 1998 (27 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6212	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. I do not know a wish for oral reporting. That is why I am going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Trattner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6239	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Mr Finanzminister, the financial statements for the year 1998 are available and documents the financial situation of the federal government in a way that is already worrying. We have debt in the order of 1 863 billion schilling, with something interesting...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6260	Just a minute! - Please continue! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6282	There is something interesting here, Mr Finanzminister: the change in due debt. They amounted to 31. December 1997 4.7 billion schilling and increased until the end of the 31st day. ==References====External links== I would like to have some information from you on what this is actually about. You have given the same impression as your predecessor, Mr. Federal Chancellor Mag. Climate, which was also in front of the press at that time and said: We have managed the great throw, we have planned a budget, we have implemented the budget and we have even failed the budget in execution. – But you have hidden the paths there again and again! In recent years, it has been noticed that at the end of the year, measures have been taken massively in various respects so that you can achieve the budget implementation and present it as if you were the great master. The first point is: They are ever more sluggish about your obligations. The Federation has become an increasingly poor payer in recent years. Let me give you an example: The federal government has concluded a lot of rental contracts, and the tenants have not received rents in the last quarters, i.e. October, November and December, and in mid-January or towards the end of January the remaining rents have been repaid or the rents for January have been paid to the respective owners. The same is true in the case of supplier obligations: In recent quarters, less and less is paid, and in January and February, the long-standing supplier obligations will be effectively imposed. That means you've moved this whole thing over and over again. One has tried to present the budget again and again, as if the execution were in order, but basically the whole thing has been going through in this way for five years. Now we have arrived at the point, Mr Finanzminister, where you once had to put the cards on the table, and this has finally let your coalition partner, the ÖVP, get closer, so that she has said: The whole thing can't go on like this! The one who was guilty of all this miser, that's you, Minister of Finance! After all, you have kept in mind the Austrian population, the Parliament and your government partner, who simply did not match the facts. ==References== July 1999 – the tax reform had already been decided – She said: The budget implementation is fine, we will meet the budget deficit of 1.7 percent of gross domestic product. It's all right. It's all right. You, Mr Finanzminister, said that there was no need to change the pension reform, that the reform steps taken back in 1997 were sufficient and that no further reform was necessary. However, you were the one who said immediately that the budget was that the early pensioners should be retired two years later, and that is why your pension reform, which you agreed to in 1997 at the time, has basically failed again. That is why it has failed – and this is the problem of the Social Democrats – because you are going over with a comb over the social weaknesses that simply cannot resist. That's why you just lost the elections in recent years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! But we are still going on in this area. It's not just about the financial debt in the order of 1 863 billion schilling: The next point in this billing is the federal liability of an order of 817 billion schilling. 817 billion Schilling has taken over the federal government's liability for loans, including export credits, which may no longer be eligible. You are sitting on an explosive substance in this area, because you know very well that in recent years alone, the Russian-Obligo has certainly been repossessed six to eight times. So that you don't burden the budget, you'd rather have made more redundancies. They have driven forward interest payments and capital loans so that you do not have to reveal the effective figures in the budget. These are things that will probably be at the door in the future – we don't know. That is why, in the end, it is simply necessary to make a case crash so that you can really see what's going on in the Ministry of Finance and what dangerous figures or loads are still present for the future. It will only become visible when this cash register collapse can be made. I know, Minister of Finance, that you are also looking so much at the fact that the Ministry of Finance remains in the hands of SPÖ so that not even another person can look in and see what happened there or what the figures actually look like. They defend themselves with all vehemence. I do not understand one thing: why the Austrian Social Democrats have so strongly opposed the proposal of an independent finance minister. If an independent finance minister takes over the place, then he sees these things with completely different eyes than you see. Perhaps the appointment of an independent minister of finance would have been an ideal way to address the Federal Government's financial policy or refinancing policy a little differently. You didn't pay any attention to the entire rate of interest. Today, we pay in Austria for the refinancing of schilling loans with a surcharge of half a percent above the three-month LIBOR interest rate of an average of 4.1 or 4.2 percent. You have average interest rates at the Schilling Loans in the order of around 6 percent! It's all too high! It seems to have been badly negotiated. What do you have a Federal Finance Agency for? Just so you can take care of these things! You know very well: The reduction of interest by 1 percent alone brings 20 billion schilling for the budget! You have to deal with these things once. One has to go through research, one has to find out how to refinance cheaply, and one has to deal with the whole thing in such a way that everything is laid open and then the necessary measures are put in place. Now, of course, the matter has become a little difficult. Now we have a budget for the year 2000. For this you have made the preparatory work very inadequate, because to say only that we will cut the discretion expenditure by 20 billion linear, that is to say, honestly, too little. It should have been left to the creativity of the individual resorts to seek potential savings there. You can't just go here and decide about someone and say that he has to do this without involving him in the conversations. That's exactly the case. This has always been done by the Federal Government – and above all by the members of the Social Democratic Government – that it has decided things without talking to the affected partner, the trade union, about them. And you complain and ask: Why do we lose the elections? without questioning the reasons for this, without questioning what it really is about. You are losing the choice because you have always ignored the social component, as its representative has always seen the social democrats in Austria, and you have simply always been limited to saving the budget in any form, keeping it in any form, holding the positions of power, so that you can continue to act in the post-contracting process as it has happened in the last 50 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that, Minister of Finance, was the wrong way. You should have listened much more to the criticism not only of the opposition parties here in the House, but also of the criticism of the President of the Court of Auditors and the criticism of the experts of the economic research institutes, then this budget would have been in order for a long time now. But you have failed to reorganise the budget in times of a good economic situation in such a way that in worse times you have a certain scope for action and not just tax increases, you have to think of a burden on the population. So that was the wrong way, and that is why it is high time for the Ministry of Finance to change in order to secure the future for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6372	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6393	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Estimated Minister of Finance! We are going with relatively great serenity to the future of Austria and will look very closely at what will happen in the next few years in Austria in politics, especially in financial policy, because what we know so far from the free will are some unsuccessful financial projects in Carinthia. I am thinking here of the Krüppel Kinderscheck or other non-realising projects, starting from the flat-tax model... – Well, no polemics, dear colleague. [[Abg. Böhacker: No polemics!]] But the flat-tax model has apparently already died at FPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the 1998 federal accounts, and this, as it were, documents a very successful period of government in this Second Republic, in this 20th century. ==References== In 1998 – we know – Austria achieved the consolidation course, which is being driven across Europe, very successfully and below the ambitious target of 66 billion schilling. We made this in 1997, in 1998, and we know that there were also positive deviations from the ambitious budget targets in 1999. Now one can say that this is not necessarily a great art, that brings everyone together. It is interesting, however, to see how such results are achieved in the context of the economy as a whole. We know that we are in a historical situation, because in the Second Republic, the economic key dates have never been better than they are at present. Inflation is as low as never before, unemployment is historically low in Europe, and we have the highest employment since 1945, rising. We have halved budget deficits, falling government debt, we have relatively stable budgets, we have real economic growth in Austria, and we have, in particular, export rates which are exploding by accession to the European Union and also by the opening of the East, which ultimately also contribute to increased employment. So we can say that in the last three years since 1945, we have been able to make a policy that has actually been implemented and implemented in budgets, in figures. That is to say, it is behind me on the government bank the first finance minister in the Second Republic who has achieved these goals three times in a row, and we will measure all other governments in the future on this data. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Professor Kausel, one of Austria's great economic professors, said last year that the Austrian economy is almost in a dream destination for economists. Never before, or hardly where, did these five essential measurement data fit together better than is currently the case in Austria. That is to say, it is a very successful phase of policy in which we Social Democrats will be very likely to leave the government and, as has already been said, we will observe the future development with great serenity. Ladies and gentlemen! Some details on the federal accounts. The increase in expenditure was lower than the increase in revenue. This was an objective formulated by the Federal Government in the context of the consolidation work of recent years. We were told by the opposition parties that such consolidation would actually take place. We have the proof here: For the second time, the Austrian operating budget has given rise to a significant and sharp rise in primary surplus by deducting interest payments and repayments from the loans. That is to say, Austria's operational level is already practically positive. However, we have also found that income from property and assets has grown more than income from self-employed activity, and that was, of course, a motive for this family tax reform for us, which was a motive for this socially balanced tax reform, which will now enter into force in January. We have never disputed that there are, of course, special challenges and special efforts. I could in this context bring a number of quotations from the Federal Chancellor, but also the Federal Minister from the summer last year. I believe that, in the end, the balance in the lower social area has been restored, that more than 100 000 families and households in the lower incomes will be removed from the poverty line just by the two reforms that are now under way. In principle, I can say that this federal accounts document a very successful policy. There you can talk about how you want to indicate suspicions or precepts, as my predecessor, Mr Trattner, did, saying: We're going to make a casserole. He apparently believes there are secret loans somewhere, or what I know about what he's been talking about. The fact is that the Federal Court of Auditors is very likely to carry out the assessment of the accounts and the financial policy of the Austrian Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the current situation, a few more words specifically to the ÖVP. Psychoanalyst Arno Gruen once wrote about the policy of indifference and meant: As long as you can punish, humiliate, even erase others, you don't have to look yourself in the face. Enemies distract us from our own injuries. – I believe that the ÖVP is really in a situation in which it needs these enemies, the exchange of partners needs to run away from its own truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Addressed by Jörg Haider and recalling today's "Morgenjournal": The being also determines the consciousness of the Lord Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6445	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6466	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gartlehner! [[Call to the liberals: It's no longer there!]] - Is he still there? Maybe he hears it. We have already discussed the 1998 federal accounts in the Committee. Mr President, I should like to thank Some points, I think, you did not mention what we were discussing there. The fact that the 1998 budget was in line with the 1998 budget estimate has not been disputed by anyone in the Committee. It was noted by several parties, including the President of the Court of Auditors itself, that the execution corresponds to the proposal. That's nice and good, but that doesn't mean that the original proposal was all right. And that's the really interesting political question. The other is a formal act of which we hope that, if not just a matter of course, it is at least the rule that the execution corresponds to the accounts. But it may also be allowed to ask what is before. And that's where I have to say: One of the points is that you deal with an invoice in order to learn something for the future. In this context, of course, the question of execution and what accounts are interesting. But the other question is: What about the budget itself, and how do the problems that have already been identified continue in the future? With regard to the budget itself, Mr Gartlehner: In 1998, with a deficit of 2.4 percent of GDP, we had the second highest in the EU at that time – already at that time, 1998! – in 1999, the highest ex-equo with Italy, and in 2000 we are alone in the first place, i.e. a "top position" in terms of the deficit. This is the budget policy of the past federal government – and I emphasize: Government, because it is known to have been composed of Social Democrats and People's Party. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: But the question is how people are doing in this country!]] Dear Lord! I've already thought that these contributions are coming today: Sins of the past, we completely innocent, not knowing, Edlinger has kept everything quiet. - That's so ridiculous! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You disprove something that no one has claimed!]] Dear Lord! All ÖVP-Redners – all! – have claimed this in the last hour, everyone, including you, Mrs Bauer and others. This morning I looked at myself quickly, as was the increase in financial debt in the period of the great coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP from 1986 to 1999. – You have to represent this, not me. The increase in financial debt in this period of the great coalition is exactly 1,000 billion schilling, a trillion schilling. This has been the policy of the SPÖ/ÖVP government. To do this, you can stand as you want, but don't hide: They were – freely after Goethe – in the Napoleonic wars. You were there! So if, of course, we are responsible for this development to the Minister of Finance, that is only half of the responsibility: The other half, of course, has to be borne by the government partners, and I am not going to repeat now, which is why, by March 1999 at the latest, everyone interested in the budget has been aware that there is at least a gap of between 20 and 25 billion schilling in 2000 when the Federal Government's stability programme is taken seriously. – This last condition rate is, of course, a risky hypothesis. But if one had taken this seriously, then it would have been clear for a year now that this gap exists. That was clear to you, of course, because you know the relevant data. [[Abg. Dr. Stumblingly, it would not be a problem until 20 billion, Mr President.]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: That's all!]] Meanwhile, the situation has worsened. The OECD is predicting – of course only a preview – a current budget deficit of 2.5 percent for the year 2000 – we have known for a year now, but a structural budget deficit of 2.7 percent. You have to let that break on your tongue! This means that the OECD assumes that the economic situation in 2000 is extremely good – therefore only 2.5 percent deficit – but in a normal year the budget deficit would increase structurally – automatically if you want to – to 2.7 percent. So the hope for better economic data, that this would automatically improve, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, because you will have to carry this, if not responsible in the coming government, this hope is not just deceptive, but you should not give it up. In this context, another old burden of the current Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. In the "standard" of yesterday there is an article with the title "The Inability to pay threatens". Finance Minister Edlinger has already repeatedly pointed out that in May, at the latest in June 2000, Article 51(5) of the Federal Constitution is almost to be found, and in this case is now – already! – to ensure, ladies and gentlemen. I am today submitting an own-initiative proposal to the Committee on Budgets, an own-initiative proposal which says that we need a so-called legislative budget. Mr. Dr. stupid knows what it's all about. In Article 51(5), there is a "casebeil" for the automatic budget procedure, which must not exceed half of the re-indebtedness of last year. Depending on what data Dr. Eder submits to us from the Federal Finance Agency, this is about an amount of 120 to 140 billion schilling, which otherwise is missing. I am really surprised that Minister Molterer said a few days ago in the press that the ÖVP did not agree to a legal budget. I hope that you will still consider this in these days, Dr. stupid, because it should at least be clear to you what you are risking if you wait with the automatic budget procedure until the last second – which would, of course, be possible theoretically. For example, I don't want to talk to an editor of the Financial Times, who tells me: Listen, there's already in the newspaper, the Republic of Austria is indebted or will soon be, the Republic of Austria has no budget for the year 2000, the Republic of Austria has no government. What do you say? – I have to say: Yeah, that's all right. Are you and Minister Molterer aware of how quickly the spread, the difference between German bond interest rates, can increase? This is worth it to you that there can be a "premium" – under quotation marks – by 0.3 percentage points in the interest rate, a "risk epidemic" for Austrian debt? You can calculate this on the fingers of a hand that this can cost 3, 4, 5 billion schilling in no time at all at interest rates. And even if it were only one billion, it was thrown out of the window. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So I hope you will agree to this request in the Budget Committee on the adoption of a legislative budget. In this context, I can only remind you of your political responsibility, which has also been conjured today, not only of your political responsibility, but of your responsibility for the taxpayer's money. What the new government will have to do in the coming weeks is up to and about various points. We will be very excited to see how the new finance minister consolidates the budget, as your partner withdraws from its former positions, such as the military upgrade, for which there is simply no money, such as the tax reduction ideas that simply oppose the deficit. We are very excited about the outcome of these negotiations. I'm also excited about what you're going to do in the financial balance. On and on, the position is in a certain way favourable: They face seven national leaders who are either black or blue. Come on. Do you finally agree on the payment and budgeting of national teachers? I can agree with many comments made by Mr Mag. Trattner remembers, also in the Committee, where we agreed that there is a great need for reform in this area. We shall now see how you are going to enforce the countries in order to at least create a clear line of responsibility for revenue and expenditure here at least on certain points. For that the covenant pays what the countries spend, this may not be the final end of wisdom in the long run. We've been talking about this for 20 years, I think. Now we will see what you are doing in this context. I also hope that the government programme will have a word on environmental tax reform, which should be non-profit-neutral and therefore not limited by the deficit problems. There is enough to do something for the labour market and at the same time for the environment or against the greenhouse effect. I hope it's on the agenda of – what should I call it? – Negotiations between FPÖ and ÖVP. [[Abg. Scheibner: I hope you will be working together, Mr Cot.]] – If you make reasonable suggestions in this relationship. However, no reasonable proposals were included in the last government programme. This was once again the attempt of the reputation of the ecological tax reform to go up only with the mineral oil tax, to commit just a third to the additional wage costs and to provide no compensation for private households at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: That's where you have to look over there, to the SPÖ!]] Well, well, I'll look over there. But there's almost no one there. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I also hope that They jump over their party political shadows and in the area of the form of bureaucrats and efficiency reform in public administration, the reforms of Ruttenstorfer continue. They were only effective in the smallest framework so far. But you and I, Mr Trattner, know that in principle these were interesting and good ideas, but they do not work yet: greater budget autonomy, transfer of budget responsibility to small and smallest units and so on. This is where the long-term future of fiscal consolidation lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6613	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6634	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! While we are discussing the financial statements for 1998 at this item on the agenda, I would like to admit that the budgetary consolidation process is a longer term one. The debate on a budget cannot, of course, reflect the true facts. I would therefore like to join with my previous speakers and discuss the 1998 accounts in general with the budgetary policy of this Federal Government and with the future prospects of the coming years. However, first of all I would like to speak to my previous speaker, to the honourable Member. Van der Bellen, say a word. Mr Van der Bellen, you have confirmed the responsibility of the People's Party for the budget and for budgetary policy. You know that I respect you very much, but I would like to say one in all modesty, even if you are an economic professor: One who has never had to bear any responsibility for budgetary policy, I do not believe that I, who has been a Member of these two government parties for many years and who has contributed Parliament's last responsibility for the budget, do so in this respect. I would like to say this very openly. They have never been responsible for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recognise that I even had increased responsibility for four budgets, for the 1988 to 1992 budgets, as the Secretary of State for Finance. But you've never had such a responsibility. You have still rejected all the budgets. From your rejection as an oppositionist, as a demagogue, which you are, but at a high level, I do not want to be reminded, Mr Van der Bellen. I can't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6669	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The "high level" has saved you right now.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6691	Mr Van der Bellen knows my personal appreciation, so I have allowed myself to say that. Mr Van der Bellen has really raised a delicate point, so I would also like to address it. He meant that, as a coalition partner, the ÖVP had to know the full truth at all times. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not the full, but at least as much as I do!]] Yeah, at least as much as you do. This is a very sensitive issue, Mr Finanzminister, but I would nevertheless like to address it. The Minister of Finance – and I congratulate him on this – has probably also had a point landing in the 1999 budget, not only in the Federal Accounts of 1998, but also in the way we have taken out of today's issue of your department. I always belong to those who say: What it weighs, it does. Therefore: Congratulations on these multiple point landings. This is undoubtedly the merit of this Minister of Finance. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Finance is an important area of budget planning, budget planning, budget implementation, budget control, but the final responsibility for the budget still has this House, because this House is adopting those laws which are ultimately necessary for budget planning. But: Congratulations on this landing! But let me also tell you other truths. Let me say that, of course, I have said this before, it was a serious failure of this Minister of Finance to use our proposal to wipe out, in parallel with the Tax Reform Commission, a expenditure savings commission, although everyone had to be clear: If we make a tax reduction programme of nearly 30 billion schilling, then this cannot finance itself 100 percent, but it must necessarily be deficit – that is understood by every popular student – if at the same time there are no expenditure-side reforms. Mr Finanzminister! There is a failure of two years. The current negotiations must recapture what the experts actually had for two years had to make proposals to us, the legislator. Now on the question: At what pace, at what time did the budgetary truthfulness become known as regards the 2000 budget? I admit, each of us has many informal contacts, but there are also certain things where one simply has to rely on what is officially announced. I say this deliberately as a parliamentarian, as the leader of my party's political group in the Financial Committee and as a member of the Budget Committee. And I'm allowed here – you don't know everything, so I took with me three documents from the documentation – first of all from the "Presse" of the 18th. Cite a sentence on June 1999 Edlinger also calmed down with regard to the 2000 budget. There is no budget hole, the Minister stressed. - June 1999. I also quote from the "Press" of the 25th century. November 1999: Edlinger sees the domestic budget as a plan despite the EU's backs. Third quote, APA issue of 14. December: The Minister of Finance confirms that there is a need for 20 billion schilling for the 2000 budget. Now I'll stay with you, Mr. Cot. We're 3rd. In December, sitting together in the Committee on Budgets, and knowing from my colleague, Mr Farnleitner, that he has always said, will be much more angry, and will not keep it, the colleagues of freedom, my colleague Franz Steindl and I have asked you, Minister of Finance, for several decidings: What will the 2000 deficit look like? And we have repeatedly received the answer, which is also here: It'll be 20 billion. Mr Finanzminister! In your first speech, you spoke about "Fairness" in the current hour. I think it is not fair – I deliberately use this gentle expression "not fair" – to call the Parliament's budget committee a number that results, not on the basis of the current legal situation, but on a legal situation that this Parliament might – perhaps! – will be decided once. How did you get to the 20 billion? They simply subtracted something from the forecast overhang of 45 billion, for which there is no legal situation. They have deducted the surplus of the Family Allowance Fund. They have deducted the surplus of unemployment insurance – that of things contrary to the current legal situation, Mr. Finanzminister. It's serious to take. As a parliamentarian, as a member of the Committee on Budgets, I expect to be asked: How high will the wrong amount be? that the answer is based on the current legal situation and not on a desired legal situation, Mr. Finanzminister. Allow me, with all due regard for the two points landings, to also present these really fierce and massive criticisms here: This information about the 20 billion schilling was not based on the current legal situation. The least I can say is that it wasn't fair. That's all I'm saying. It was certainly not fair to call the Committee on Budgets a figure here in Parliament which would result from a desired legislative situation. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that my party, the People's Party, has taken a very high political risk twice in the design of the budget – because now we are all the more credible. We took the high risk in 1995 when no one first understood why the People's Party rose from the coalition after a year – it was from overall responsibility, Mr Van der Bellen, for the budget, for the budget and for the future of the country – and we have now failed the negotiations when we saw that our partner does not have the political power to carry along this budgetary recovery course, which is necessary for the future. That is why we are credible in these questions. That's why I come back to my beginning: That is why, Mr Van der Bellen, with all personal respect, I do not take this responsibility into account by you. We have repeatedly proved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6737	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6759	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if this was really a "point landing" that gives rise to congratulations. One thing's true: The figures in terms of the result are purely mathematically similar to those of the budget. But – and this is also once illuminated – the whole thing seems to me like a math school work with an example that is certainly disefficient, and the student makes five serious mistakes within the example – gait errors, error in calculation and so on – and in the end the correct result or similar result happens by chance. This is also what I see as regards the 1998 accounts. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: It's not that simple!]] I'm going to tell you something, I'm admitting that, but I can't be so kind of friends with the "point landing" statement. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, what happened here in previous periods has enormous implications for the current budgetary situation. No one can deny this, and the Federal Minister must be accused of simply ignoring the alarm bells, which have often shrieked, which have often ringed. Unfortunately, Mr Federal Minister, no one can spare you! Because you're a veiler. They always went here and said: Not so bad, just no waves – on well Austrian –, just no excitement, everything in control, everything under control! You tried to radiate it with stooter silence. You just didn't succeed. Because what you've been practicing for years, an extremely sloppy budget policy, is now working together like a cardhouse. Federal Minister! If you say – as you did months ago – that there is no budget hole, because there is no budget at all, I ask you: What is this for a budget policy that threatens to blow out the entire budget deficit and create a disaster on the least occasion – that is, if there is no government for two or three months? I therefore think, Minister of State, that you have a huge problem of credibility. This problem of credibility manifests itself not only in the budget and in the impact of the budget on the current situation, but in general. I can only give you an example here. Today you can read the "Standard" in the daily newspapers: "Requirement to the jeweler." The question of anonymity is addressed here. I know that this is not directly related to the 1998 budget. But you were also one who always said: The anonymity holds! There is no reason to panic, no reason to tighten the banking law, no reason to force banks to become more secretive! and so on. They have persistently and for years rejected our request in the Financial Committee. You've seen no need. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've been pretending to be all that's being put forward on liberal arguments here, cheese. But now comes the bitter truth. I therefore call this example because it is a good example of teaching to demonstrate how little serious you have always taken constructive criticism. We just can't spare you these accusations. I would like to return briefly to what has been discussed in the Committee. You know, Federal Minister, I have my doubts as to whether the figures now put on the table on a budget hole of 63 or 65 billion schilling – high for the year 2003 – are the final conclusion of wisdom. I have my doubts, because when I look at the statements made by the experts present in the committee – Professor Lehner, Dr. Walterskirchen – I see that they were very disagreeable in their statements of this budget hole. There I have allowed myself to ask the question of the rising interest rates we have to expect. You all know – and you have admitted – that we have just experienced the change of interest in Europe. It is expected to increase interest rates, and this, of course, will also hit the budget properly with a huge debt of 1,600 or 1,700 billion schilling. The statements were so that the one said that the additional interest of 6 or 7 billion schilling is implied in these figures, others said that it is actually not quite contained and not so clear. So there are other uncertainties here. That is why, Minister of State: I think it is high time to pursue a clear budget policy, make a crystal clear case crash, and no longer make use of out-of-flows. Ladies and gentlemen! The Republic of Austria now does not need a lamento of SPÖ, the Republic does not need mutual debt allocations, it does not need any more tacting. In other words: Austria does not need to continue the course so far! The only thing Austria now needs is another fiscal policy, a restructuring community, a budget that is no longer based on unrealistic assumptions and budgetary untruths, but on a crystal clear, very transparent fiscal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6804	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6826	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! The reason for the discussion is the Federal Accounts for 1998. The discussion – I am not criticising this, but merely saying it – is similar to that in the Committee, namely, that there is hardly any word lost on the 1998 federal accounts and the very interesting perceptions of the Court of Auditors. It is actually remarkable that at least Mr Deputies firmly notes that this billing is a point landing, as well as the 1997 accounts. I would like to tell you today because other responsibilities will certainly be given if the 1999 accounts are discussed here: The 1999 financial statements – the estimate I was responsible for – and the financial statements – will make a point landing as clear as the 1997 and 1998 accounts. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I am aware of it when Mr Van der Bellen says that it is not only a technical matter in itself to consider, in order to conclude an account, whether the proposal and the clearance of accounts lead to the same result, but it is also legitimate to ask whether the proposal was correct. This is also exactly what we are on the political side of a situation which is the same in itself. Of course, an estimate will never be declared right, neither by the Federal Government nor by the parties – if one or the other suddenly does not know each other anymore – nor by the opposition. And that is legitimate, because it would be an act of inexorable overload, of opposition parties who have rejected the proposal to wish to have the final approval of the proposal that the proposal would have been correct. For the proposal is the political will of a federal government cast into figures, and this political will is necessarily a different one from that which leads to assessments from the point of view of the opposition. How difficult it is – and I will say a few things about the allegedly different figures that I have mentioned – on the one hand to try to make the discussion on the 1998 budget happen in the near future, and on the other hand to compare the forecasts made by opposition politicians of this budget – which we know was a point landing today – in the public, you best judge yourself. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] ==References====External links== March 1997 – that was the time when the 1998 budget was in Parliament – the budget expert of the Greens, whom I very much appreciated, according to the quote in the "standard": Economic Professor Alexander Van der Bellen sees this year – that is, in 1997, but that was also a point landing – and in 1998 a 40-billion hole. ==References== On June 11, he took it back to 30 billion, and then on June 11th. It's dropped to 20 billion on June 20. That is, even if you try to be critical, it is extremely difficult for you to calculate what it is like. In any case, in order to be right, there is a wide range; this is the case even in the assessment of one of the most serious budget experts – as I mean – who do not belong to the Federal Government. Mr Mag. Trattner, I have already told you in the Budget Committee that you and your party observer, in particular, on the occasion of a clause of your party in 1997, have forecast a budget hole of 38 billion and much later of 76 billion schilling alone in the 1998 budget. Why do I say that? . I am therefore saying this because I would also like to express how difficult this is and under which calculations one assumes that a model is ultimately calculated for a year. I would like to make it clear to you that I have never left a doubt about this – and I say this once again today to repeat this – that the 2000 budget and the 2001 budget call for special efforts, no matter who finally makes the Federal Government. It will probably be a different way depending on who belongs to this Federal Government. But it was the budgetary consolidation that we started in 1996 and with which we succeeded in halving the budget deficit in just two years – one, as I said, remarkable performance that was successful in Austria at the time and which ultimately also helped us to get on the way to the common monetary union – it was not yet completed this way of fiscal consolidation. Never, at any time did I mean that the budget is running by itself, but I have repeatedly and demonstrably pointed out this – partly also in a phase in which others did not do so, namely in the election campaign – and have said and appealed in all clarity: I would ask you not to let too many suffrages go about the stage because we cannot finance it! I'm telling you, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: If I have been asked how high the budget hole is, I have never actually taken a different attitude. We only interpreted the contents differently. I have always said that the 2000 budget has to do with a difference of 20 billion then if we do not generate additional expenditure. If you, honourable Member, say that, in such an interpretation, you have to look at the situation of the laws, I will give you the right to do so. But it is legitimate to say that those financial flows that accumulate in the funds – so that there is money there – must be neutralized in an account such as the Maastricht account. In the end, these are surpluses that have not been made available. If you say that I have to take the legal state, you will give me the right that if the legal state is maintained, the excess amounts of the funds are not decided. Then they are there, and when they are there, they minimize the Maastricht deficit! I have always assumed that if there is no additional expenditure, the deficit of 20 billion schilling will be closed. That's what I'm saying, that's right, and all the other numbers are interpretations! I would ask you to take note of this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of the 63 billion schilling: Of course, I have always said – the numbers come to and for myself; this Tableau is the one that was handed over to the ÖVP in November; if we discuss who knows something, then one has to say: add it, and I actually assume the basic accounting modes – the 63 billion schilling are then – and I have always said this – if nothing happens by the year 2003. I once told the public in a joke: Despite the difficult form of government, I assume that the Republic of Austria will have a new federal government before 2003, a government that needs to create budgets. The closure of a difference between need and possibility in an order of 20 billion schilling is not insurmountable. I can tell you that at the beginning of the 1998 and 1999 budgetary negotiations, there were greater differences than these 20 billion schillings to be overcome. We have managed to do this, we have made budgets that were feasible, even though the opposition parties of that time doubted this. We present today the billing and thus the proof of this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say this, even if I do not want to quote when anyone knows anything. But if you quote newspapers, Dr. stupid, then you certainly know that in newspapers there are abbreviations of assumptions. 'Cause I've always said, 20 billion if no additional expenditure is incurred! The "Press" in its proverbial objectivity – which it has operated in the last few days until the perversion – has knowingly left out, because that does not fit into its concept. I'm just taking note of that. I would like to make two or three specific points. I am Professor Van der Bellen is very grateful that he draws attention to the need for the budget procedure. I have prepared such a template and here too. Although I would have recommended that this should not be done until March, I assume that I will no longer have the power to do so at that time. But I can only recommend, in particular, the potential government party ÖVP, to decide on the budget procedure, because I do not believe that the potential coalition partners – even in the agreements that must already be concluded between them – are already so far that they can actually propose a budget for the year 2000 here in Parliament with 1. ==References== Therefore, I can only recommend such a decision in the interest of our state. I would also draw attention to the fact that Professor Van der Bellen is very right: After all, one has lost a reputation quickly! It is therefore very important that this budget proposal documents that we do not have any crisis-like phenomena as always. The measure of 20 billion schilling, which you were very criticised by me at the time, was not without reason, but these 20 billion schillings communicate with the actual gap, under the assumption – and that was my motive – that nothing is happening throughout the year 2000. In November, my confidence in re-establishing a coalition with you was very shaken. But I thought the scenario would take a little longer. Because you could not change your determination to go into opposition within two days. They needed a certain theatralic, so that it might come over with some sort of credibility. That is why I had the intention – in exercising the responsibility I still have at this time – not to leave the finances of the Republic of Austria out of the glue. Thus, the barrier to the discretional credits that you have criticized, which is politically criticised, because no structural measure is possible, or only difficult – I did not say – but that is seen by all scientists as the only way that a provisional finance minister can and must assume in the exercise of his responsibility in that state. Two more comments: Mr Mag. Trattner, I have already told you several times that your figures on interest rates are not correct. Within the European Union, ÖBFA is really being admired for its policy. We have the lowest interest payments within the European Union. However, the volumes we have to serve are much lower than in other countries. I wish that this would remain the same in the future. One last comment; unfortunately, I cannot address everything that has been said, otherwise I speak too long, but one comment still: Mr. Dr. Stummful, Sigmund Freud must have contributed to your remarks. You said a few minutes ago: We have failed the negotiations for this and that is why. – I have had this impression all the time! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6944	Mr Gusenbauer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e6965	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Finanzminister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is little added to the statement made by the Minister for Finance, because he has essentially addressed the basic questions of the debate. A few remarks: Professor Van der Bellen, you have pointed out that it is not really a special political achievement if the budget implementation corresponds to the budget figures. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: No, I didn't say that! But it is possible to perfect something suboptimal! The question is, was it not from the house like that?]] Aha, good – whether it wasn't as optimal from home as you mean. It is nevertheless an essential political point. For if you look at the contributions to the 1998 budget that you have also announced that this budget will not last – you were not the only one – and you have therefore called into question the reality of this budget at all, it is politically important to note, of course, that it is determined in retrospect: This budget was a point landing, and, contrary to your criticisms, there has been a correct implementation of this budget. In this respect, it is not only a technical remark that the financial statements correspond to the budget, but also a political assessment that the various – justified or unauthorized – criticisms about the sustainability of the budget have not been met. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: When talking about the speed of the consolidation course, one has to say quite clearly: There are countries that have had more ambitious consolidation courses than Austria from the speed. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Fourteen!]] At the same time, however, we have to say about the high starting position of the state deficit. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This Federal Government too!]] And also, which fears were associated with it, even at the pace of consolidation that was struck. I can recall the relevant debates in which it was said: A Maastricht-compliant consolidation will lead to significant cuts in demand, significant price collapses, significant declines in growth and significant job losses. If one compares what was associated with this consolidation rate, according to the debate, with risks from the outset, and also looks at what the real macroeconomic results of this consolidation course were, namely, with regard to growth, employment, demand and so on, then one has to say that it has clearly succeeded in contributing not only to the consolidation of the budget, but also to keeping an eye on other macroeconomic targets and meeting them correctly. Despite the impact of this consolidation course on employment, at the same time being in the European growth path and at the same time stabilising demand, it is actually a political-economic work that was not considered possible before. You know very well, Professor Van der Bellen, which articles and opinions have been published on the subject of the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria in Austria. I say quite openly: I also personally feared that this could have a negative impact on employment and growth. But the result was – and that is, I believe, important – that not only two thirds of the consolidation path could be returned, but at the same time employment and growth were stabilised. I believe that this is crucial not only for the economy, but ultimately also for the Austrian population. Third point, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the question of the budget hole, which was also raised here in the debate: They say that since March 1999, it has been clear in which direction the budget hole will develop. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Farnleitner, has always told him that there is a lot worse, but we have not known more precisely. In this context too, just looking at the parliamentary debates that we had on tax reform: I can't remember that there would have been any group who would have said that this tax reform was overrun from its volume. There was no political group that meant that tax reform should be reduced financially. On the contrary, all the criticisms of this tax reform have gone in the direction that the extent of the tax reform should be significantly greater than that of the Minister of Finance, and that, in fact, people should be given back significantly more money! I would like to point out that the same people who have, in fact, called for the tax reform to be more generous are coming here today and complaining of the budgetary difficulties that may have arisen from the tax reform decision. That's what I'm saying, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: Both will not be able to have, first, a more generous tax reform and second, a smaller budget hole! Those who have called for generous tax reforms should also be aware of the budgetary consequences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourth point: I think the Minister of Finance was one of the few who pointed out that this tax reform and the changes in the family sector are going to be at the border of budgetary possibilities and that this tax reform and the family package will only be budgetaryly sustainable if there is absolute expenditure discipline in all areas. Only then, under these conditions, will the budget of the year 2000 be presentable. It was therefore already clear from the tax reform decision that this tax reform is in fact beyond the scope for further generosity. Therefore, the Minister of Finance has consistently – even in the election debate, even if that may not have been popular! – notes that any additional generosity in the social, family or other field must be provided with counter-funding, because there is no budgetary margin for it. That is why I say quite openly: If someone has taken into account the budget and the real possibilities that exist on the basis of the budget, that was the Minister of Finance! It should not, therefore, be held responsible in today's debate for all that others have proposed and promised in addition to generosity, but for which they have no financial support.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7044	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7065	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The term "budget hole" has already been very stratified today, but: Identification Are you even the difference between the monster of Loch Ness and the budget hole Edlingers? – The monster of Loch Ness is said to appear only once in the summer, when the rainbow press has its "acid cucumber time", while the budget hole Edlingers has existed for many years and is getting bigger and bigger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", an internationally recognized and appreciated newspaper, dated 18. In the economic part of the economy, the following can be read about Austria – I quote: "The biggest economic challenge is likely to be the consolidation of the government budget. According to the Federal Minister, the funding gap is at least 20 billion Schilling for the year 2000, which would grow to 65 billion in 2003 without anti-regulatory measures." - Quote. I also quote from the "Small Newspaper"/Steiermark, in which you can read: "With 20 billion, however, one-time effects such as mobile licenses, property sales, deposit resolution and the elimination of various funds are also included." - Quote. In the Budget Committee, experts analysed the state of state finance. The focus of the debate was on how the Court of Auditors' praise on the implementation of the respective budget estimate in recent years and the savings package should be understood, at the same time as the reminder of measures against the structural deficit. The President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Fierce, then restricted his praise for the Federal Government to the proper implementation of the budgetary requirements. At the same time, he recalled his repeated reminders on longer-term and structural measures in the preparation of the budget. In recent months, it has been clear that the Minister of Finance has partially lost the overview of the Austrian budget situation. It will therefore be very important to set up a committee of experts immediately, which will make the necessary cash register collapse. In addition to the lack of structural reforms, a large manko in the Austrian budget policy is certainly the fact that instruments such as budget forecast, budget programme and budget report are not used sufficiently strongly. They should be better used to counter negative developments in public budgets more quickly. The lack of transparency in budgetary policy is also unbearable. Thus, due to existing breakdowns – we think about the ASFINAG – only very difficult numerical comparisons can be made. Federal Minister for Finance! You could have improved the transparency and planning of the budget for a long time! Therefore, the small reform proposal comes a little late from you that the budget proposal for the year 2000 will contain an supplement on the financial links between the federal government and the distributed institutions. Transparency could also be achieved by integrating fiscal data from countries and communities into the net representation of the public sector budget. This is also required by Wifo's budget expert, Professor Lehner. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one does not want Austria to sink into international economic insignificance and thus take over the red lantern in Europe, then the future Federal Government should at last decide on the implementation of sustainable structural reforms after the necessary collapse.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7131	Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steindl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7153	Mr President. Minister! Ladies, gentlemen! I take note of the criticism of Mr Gusenbauer, who meant that the tax reform 2000 was too generous, there were too large tariff cuts, I would like to note. I take note of the following: The reform bears the manuscript of the ÖVP. And I'm proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, I take note of it! They have just decreed that this tax reform was carried by the ÖVP in this government, so they apparently distance themselves from it. On today's discussion of the 1998 federal accounts, it is to be said that, as my previous speakers have pointed out, he has long been eaten in the public. In reality, this is something quite different, namely the preview for the next few years, about the discussion on the next budgets, and this, of course, gives the discussion a completely different weight! It may be that you, Minister Edlinger, have made the last three federal accounts for 1997, 1998 and 1999, and that is all right. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: That's all I've done!]] But you're also an excellent rhetoric, I need to prove that to you. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: An excellent finance minister! Say it! Say it!]] That is why the public feel that everything is all right anyway. You have also brought this piece of art together in the Budget Committee. It may be that the reform packages of recent years are now beginning to work, and it is just your luck that you have just arrived at a time when you – like They also stressed that they were responsible for the 1998 and 1999 budgets in the Committee on Budgets, for example, not anymore. And it was also your luck that others started the structural reforms at the time, and that's why they succeeded in achieving them. But this automatically made the impression – and we cannot discuss it away in the public – that everything is all right anyway, and the Minister of Finance knows itself! However, if one asks for the precise scope of the task, it should be said that the tasks of a Minister of Finance consist of the ongoing controlling, the budget execution, the preview of the future, and of drawing attention to necessary structural measures. The SPÖ did not refuse to give up this ministry in any way during the government negotiations. Why? – Because it is the most important ministry, because it is a ministry that is very likely to have great influence on the other departments. If I look at the press reports of the last few weeks and months, there are only two conclusions for me – even if you turn it and turn it around as you want, and say that you would have always claimed that 20 billion schilling is missing, it is only a matter of resolving any reserves, whether you involve the surplus from the family compensation fund, whether you are doing other preferential effects and so on, somehow you always come to a number –: The question is: Have you known the true scale of the budget problems or not? If you've known, why didn't you tell us at the exploratory talks or even before? But if you didn't know, there's only the conclusion: You don't have the place under control! – Both are bad, and therefore the mistrust of the ÖVP was justified. Mr Stummvoll has already responded to all these press releases: In June 1999: "No budget log!", five months later, the head of the budget section said – I quote the "standard" – there are still 7 billion missing! And in the Budget Committee, you spoke of 20 billion schilling. I give you the right to do so according to the basics. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I always said that!]] But now we insist that it is only 20 billion, if you also take the surplus of the family tax compensation fund and let it disappear in the budget, and that it is 63 billion schilling by the year 2003. Of course, we all knew that the budget was not well! Of course, Minister Farnleitner also said that something can't be true – each of us said that! But we didn't have the actual numbers, and that's what you really have to say. But now going here and reducing 20 percent of discretion expenditure, we have already debated this in the Committee on Budgets, seems illogical. This is a lawn mower policy that we do not want to be responsible for. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Federal Constitutional Law!]] There are other ways to prevent, but not with this method, which is also not intelligent! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: The Federal Constitutional Law so requires!]] As you are so excited, Mrs Colleague, I give you the following example: The Minister of Finance has decided to fundamentally reorganise the budgetary and accounting system by using an international software product, called SAP. The project has been running since 1998, costing is about 480 to 500 million schilling, spread over four years, which means 70 to 100 million schilling annually. This is – we knew – a potential for use in the personnel sector of 200 million schilling. The plans should have been completed by 2002. The decision concerning the reduction in discretionary expenditure has now effectively inhibited this project, i.e. we are lost every year only because of this project through this decree 100 million schilling. If that's intelligent, I'll question it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] I would like to comment on the following point, Mr Finanzminister: After a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, you would rather let your dog look after the sausage than the ÖVP on the budget. – I would like to put this right in the public. It is a quote from Joseph Schumpeter, which is correct – I quote –: "It is more likely that a pudel will be used as a collection of sausages than a Parliament in order not to decide on new expenditure in full state funds." - Quote. Apparently Joseph Schumpeter referred this quote to socialist government policy. Otherwise, I can't understand that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, it shows the following – even if you may be holding your part-session address as Minister of Finance at the next item on the agenda: You are and have been a good rhetoric, but as Minister of Finance, you have not done your homework.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7273	Mr Gaugg, Member of the Commission. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7295	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edlinger, I am going to miss you as Minister of Finance because I have rarely met anyone who is able to present the most confused situation by his rhetorical fights as if everything were all right. You've been successful since you were Minister of Finance. The numbers, however, speak a different language. You have always told us that Austria, with its financial policy, especially in the case of interest payments, is a model country in Europe. But now I wonder why the OECD or others are very critical of this at international level. That the average rate of interest on schilling loans in 1998 was 6.1 percent is not necessarily the yellow of the egg. There would certainly be more favourable conditions for a slightly greater effort. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In view of the snapshot of a budget year now of point landing – or as always called – it is to some extent also a refusal to reality, if one knows that behind these naked figures social cold has returned, social cold to the Austrian population, which has been turning its backs on you and your party for years. You continue the policy of a Mr. Vrannitzky! Mr. Vrannitzky is flying around the area at the expense of the WestLB, and the working people are "flying" from the farms. This is your form of policy in recent years, and you have now received the invoice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The friendship has been announced to you on the basis of many events. As an example, I only mention those mega-fusions – Bank Austria, CA and the like – in which only capital was spoken. For the savings packages or tax packages of the years 1996 and 1997 it was only about money that it was about people who transferred a certain responsibility to the Federal Government, but who had neglected it most seriously. The representatives of the S & D Party continue to take up this speaker's seat and say: It's all right anyway! What do you want? You've been given one quickly when you leave, namely the question of pensions. If a finance minister on a negotiating team – or at all – doesn't think anything else but to say that the retirement age would be increased by two years, then that's more than sad! One cannot go through life so indiscriminately if one knows at the same time that in recent years the working population in this country has made the greatest contribution to fiscal consolidation. It could have been done with a little more caution and consideration. The financial and budgetary development of our country is far from under control, and you know that the measures announced are not suitable for achieving sound budget consolidation for the future. You also know that all the one-time effects you have consumed in recent years will not be available in the future. This means, however, that the burden on the population has reached an extent that no longer goes higher. More is simply not reasonable! It is therefore necessary and important that there should once be a turnaround, a rethinking, because it seems that it is still not going into the minds of the Social Democrats that there can be another world in this Republic, namely, a responsibility to our citizens! In fact, it is not enough if you have the budget figures you are presenting at the time of the 31st century. On December 1, 1998, or whenever, but in the end, they will have to resort to measures that cost the population a lot of money. That is why it will do well for this country once political change has taken place. I am convinced that this is understood by the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7367	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7388	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The Minister for Finance has already been informed several times today that the implementation of the 1998 budget has been quite successful – and I can only agree with my colleague, Mr Stunning, on a point landing. Even the speakers of the opposition, Mr Trattner and Mr Gaugg, have simply fled to public places because, in view of the results here, there was not much to criticise. It is right that future budgets or budget consolidation... [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't praise the day before the evening!]] – Mr Böhacker, you will not be here until later, but I know that you are no longer expected to be general places. They will now have to adapt relatively quickly to the new situation. [[Abg. Böhacker: Do you have anything other than general places?]] And if you come from up there or down from here from your government policy... [[The speaker points to the government bank]] [[The speaker points to the speaker's voice]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Look, Mr Böhacker: In contrast to you during the election campaign, I have constantly warned against promising expensive election gifts. They have just surpassed each other with promises such as child care check, flat tax and the like. You have this – excuse me for using a word your former clubman, Mr Mag. Stadler, once used here – simply propagated "Holler". However, I admit – and therefore you are right –: For representing the truth, that the current budget does not bear any electoral gifts, I was certainly not among the constituencies, that is right! [[Abg. Fischl: Why is that so?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now turn briefly to what has happened in the run-up to today's meeting and, of course, in the discussions on government and inquiry. The ÖVP claimed that it simply didn't know anything. This is interesting in so far as these ladies and gentlemen have been listening to the Federal Government for 13 years. But now they proudly claim that they knew nothing. You have at least not given a very good witness by this statement, because if I belong to a federal government or a city council or any body, then I am well informed, ladies and gentlemen, that you can believe, about the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! This leaves only two conclusions for me: firstly, that you really did not know what Mr Steindl demonstrated in his speech today in this regard! You didn't know anything! To recognize this would not have required this speech. They were really ignorant, and as such you have revealed yourself today. That's perfectly right! The fact that Mr Trattner has already given discharges in the direction of former Minister for the ÖVP is, I think, a little too early, for it is then specifically the question of why these gentlemen actually came to Prime Minister, why You belonged to this glaring body. But not only do I ask this question, but the population also raises the question of what these gentlemen have really done in these bodies for 13 years. My second variant is: They knew, but they wanted to push the black Peter. This is, however, – I can tell you, my Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – thoroughly followed! No one's taking it from you in the country. And that you knew something about it seems to confirm Mr Farnleitner's speech, who said – I quote – that: "Since I was the budget officer of the ÖVP until half a year ago and with Edlinger also made the last two annual budgets, it is on the one hand such that the trend in the budget could not have been hidden, but no one else." - Quote. - I have to give him the right. He's right. The head of state of Vorarlberg has also sent a not all-too-loose message to Vienna, in which he informed Mr Schüssel that the fact that something has been opened up in the budget, even to Vorarlberg, had been discussed. And only the Mr. Schüssel... – Mr. Böhacker! [[Abg. Böhacker: Always these general places!]] Look, I just need to make a few things clear, 'cause I can't leave that in the room so uncommented. [[Abg. Böhacker: He's been talking general places for five minutes now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, "Beautiful" is also the fact that ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, especially Mr Fassleven and Mrs Gehrer, have, while speaking about the budgetary situation, even in the Court of Auditors' report – on which we are going to discuss in item two of the agenda – have not really been impressed with laurels, they have actually been strongly criticised in this Court of Auditors report, because they are sound in the implementation of the consolidation package. And since the woman minister in yesterday's mission "Hohes Haus" has faithfully smiled into the camera and said she knows if the problems are, then the question may be asked again: What has she done in recent years? In this context – and with this I conclude my speech – be said: Mr Edlinger, our Minister of Finance, was probably right when he said that a dog could rather be taken care of than the ÖVP transferred responsibility for future budgets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7508	Mr Fischl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7529	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, it's amazing: I have listened very attentively to your remarks and have to say that it has been very remarkable for me that you may have given of yourself from this point of view for the last time, in so far as you, as the Minister of Finance of this Republic, who has the full drama of our economic emergency every day, stand out and say that you would have made a point landing! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand where the point landing is supposed to be. I think we should talk about a abdominal area. Because to sit down and say: We've heard it today, it's all right, anyway, we're even being praised for it!, I'm a little too little personally. And I also say this as taxpayers of this Republic. I am a long taxpayer, a good and timely taxpayer; how should it be different? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Just as the Ministry of Finance and the Offices stir up and you pull the money out of your pocket, that's no wonder! You also have a good reason to pull the money out of your pocket. I am already already in the cause research of why dissatisfaction is expressed today: The cause, Mr Federal Minister, is – and I am telling you this clearly – three decades of active government policy by the Social Democrats. The effect is a doubling of government debt – or more than double – over the last ten years. The impact, Mr. Federal Minister, is a tax rate of 45 percent of GDP. The effect is that our budget deficit will rise by around 2%, although it is 30 percent higher than in the EU average. [[The opposition of Federal Minister Edlinger as well as of Abg. Parnigoni.]] The cause is actually – and that is what I am telling you, Mr Federal Minister, as a merchant, who, as I believe, has been successful so far, at least my balance sheets look half successful... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! As a merchant and as a citizen of this Republic, I say to you: You have failed with your ideology, you have failed on the whole line with your comrades who have accompanied you on this path. This is the reality that we have to face today. This is the sad reality, because your failure includes the fact that our youth and the following generations will be imposed more or less on a mortgage, in which we and the other generations who will hopefully still follow us will still have a long time to baffle. Federal Minister! To stand here and claim that you had made a point landing is probably the summit! I have to say, even more. Your last quote from the dog Waldi – I don't know what your dog is called – is that it's better for you to look after the sausage than that one black person looks over your shoulder, or someone else sees you over your shoulder. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: I didn't say that!]] [[Federal Minister Edlinger: You are always inaccurate!]] Federal Minister! Personally, it's all right for someone to look over your shoulder. I would also have been right if you, if it had gone so far, someone had looked over your shoulder to show this scenario, this chaos scenario mercilessly and completely. Seeing this hypocrisy here is terrible for me. As a merchant, I close by drawing an interesting parallel: When an accountant of my company gives me an accountable account of the accounts at the end of the year and says: Mr Fischl, it's all right!, but one month later, I'm going to find that my business object is pledged, my child's construction savings contract has been arrested, my rents are not paid and the executive is at the door, what will I do with the manager of my finances? – I will do the same thing the voters did on 3 March. It's October. I therefore congratulate the voters and say: Friendship, Minister! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7601	Mr Kurzbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7623	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Today we are dealing with the Federal Accounts for 1998. The result is to say: With this deficit of 66 billion schilling – it has already been spoken of as "point landing" or "bauch spot" – we are even about 1.3 billion schilling under the terms of the Federal Finance Act. Federal Minister! However, I would like to point out that the routes for this point landing were set in 1995. It was only because of the new elections that led the Austrian People's Party at the time that it was possible to set the course in order to finally achieve this goal and fulfil the Maastricht criteria. However, when we look at this billing, we also note that this target on the revenue side has been achieved mainly by two factors, namely, through good national economic development – I recall GDP growth in 1998 to an increase of 3.3 per cent compared to the expectations for the 2.5 per cent budgeting – and secondly by means of outlay measures, i.e. one-off effects. Therefore, the finding that it was not possible to put in place deep structural measures, namely to make further savings on the expenditure side. The Court of Auditors notes in its report that although success in fiscal consolidation is noted – and there is also a praise from the Court of Auditors – it should also be noted that compliance with the Maastricht criteria and inclusion in the euro area countries should not lead to a reduction in expenditure-side budgetary adjustment efforts. The EU Commission also criticises Austrian budget development in its last autumn forecast. There is an opinion from the Austrian National Bank, which reads as follows: Without fiscal control, Austria would be the only EU country with a higher deficit in 2000 and 2001 than in 1999 and with deficit ratios of 2.6 or 2.4% behind Italy, Greece and Portugal as the European final light. But also in the case of total debt, Austria would only reduce its deficit by 2001, from 63.2 percent of GDP in 1999 to 63 percent. We all know that the target, the sustainable target, is to be 60 percent. It is therefore necessary for the coming Federal Government to counter this negative development. On the other hand, we are in danger of staying at the end of the budget development within the EU for a longer time. It is therefore important to reorganise the budget in a sustainable manner and to achieve a budget of stability, particularly in economic and social terms. Federal Minister! I am also a little surprised – some previous speakers have already pointed this out today –: They pointed out in the previous year, in June, when the tax reform 2000 was under discussion, that the budget was in order, but in recent weeks and months the real level of the deficit in the budget for the year 2000 was announced to the public. This has, of course, led to uncertainty. That is why it will be the responsibility of the future Federal Government to build confidence, namely the trust of the people in the government, because the trust of the people is a value that must be appreciated and protected!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7677	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7698	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister, it is already nice, here from the government bank from the free budget speaker Mag. Trattner and Mr. Landeshuptmann, Dr. Haider, have calculated numbers that have not been found. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: True it is, not "cow"!]] Federal Minister! Especially you, as one who places the so-called budget hole at between 20 and 63 billion schilling, and is responsible for that – you have literally said so – that content is interpreted differently, I would like to say: What you use for yourself must also apply to the liberals. It is about interpreting the contents accordingly and also outlining them, and not just about simply putting some numbers into the room like that. Federal Minister! I have also expressed my astonishment in the Committee that the Court of Auditors first had a positive assessment of the federal accounts. It turned out to be, in principle, a more formal, a technical act. The budget was implemented as planned. But the President of the Court of Auditors has said very well that the budget estimate with a forecast deficit of 2.5 percent was the wrong way. What do you conclude? – You need to go a wrong path in itself only consistently, then the technical act is actually done properly and there is a so-called point landing. That, Mr. Federal Minister, can't be it! Federal Minister! Allow me to illustrate this procedure by an example from the sports sector: Imagine that SK Rapid's coach is a sporty goal for the next championship to reach the last place. The championship is over, in fact SK Rapid has reached the last place. And now the Board of Directors of SK Rapid is expressing praise: The plan target, the sporting goal was achieved. – So, Minister of Finance, your 1998 budget execution is also yours, and it really cannot be at the best of will! Mr Finanzminister! What Austria needs is a new, innovative budget policy. A new force, new ideas, new confidence in a budget policy, also by the citizens, because up to now there have been only burdens, advances on future budgets, always at the expense of those involved in small and medium-sized incomes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7734	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7755	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steindl, you should have listened to Mr Farnleitner more often, because Federal Minister Farnleitner said long ago that the trend in the budget could not have been hidden, and he had often reported on this in meetings. They should have been more often present at these meetings. Mr Steindl! The Minister for Finance has already meant the way he has said it, and there are good reasons for this, ladies and gentlemen, too. If we look at the expenditure excesses of the ÖVP ministries, in particular the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defence – and we will do so at the next item on the agenda, when we negotiate the Court of Auditors' Perception Report – we know that Federal Minister Gehrer spent between 3 and 4 billion schillings more than was available, and the defence department was more than 7 billion schillings. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, especially ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I know it's damn difficult to criticise an invoice such as that for 1998, perhaps also to refuse his consent. Nevertheless, I constantly marvel at the arguments that are being invented in order not to leave any good hair at this billing. This is part of the opposition's role. That is what we have to take note of. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The situation is a little different if I allow the contributions of our colleagues, namely the ÖVP and, in particular, those of Mr Steindl, to be made by our colleagues. I would like to remind you today and here: It was you who contributed to this budget, and it was you who shared this budget. But what you're doing here today, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, is bad-making, is child-moving, and that's just unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But it could also be that this is a small intermediate in the direction of FPÖ. This could also be possible, especially since yesterday at the "first meeting" – I want to put that deliberately under quotation marks – apparently the engagement took place de facto. I would just like to give you one along the way, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Don't make the bill without the host! Be careful that you don't speculate! Mr Steindl! Because of your current statements here from this pult, I would like to tell you: They are about to leave the path of honesty, because I believe that the pact has long been agreed with the liberals and the public has not been properly informed, but has been led astray. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion of this budget has already been in the crucifixion of criticism for a long time, and it is therefore necessary to address some of the key points of this conclusion again and to go a little into the right lot. The picture, which was shown by the opposition in particular today, is simply not true. [[Abg. Oils: What are you? Opposition or government?]] Even though it is still so often tried – MP Fischl has just tried again –: You will not be able to speak badly of this truly forward-looking and successful budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The figures speak a clear language. What do the facts look like? The horror scenarios, which were repeatedly drawn by the opposition at the time when the budget was created, did not occur. I remember how the experts were attacked and insulted at the time, especially by the FPÖ, and how they could be found today. At that time, the liberals spoke of a non-profitable budget hole in the order of 38 to 50 billion schilling. I also remember very clearly the argument of the Greens, which was not very fine at the time. They spoke of a safe false amount of 40 to 50 billion schilling; all this is to be read in the Stenographical Protocol, it was not invented by me. But as you can see today, all these pessimists, all fearmakers have no right to do – thank God! The 1998 budget was really – and this can honestly be said – not to be exceeded in terms of success. The figures have been as confirmed by the Court of Auditors. The result is black on white on the table: The net deficit is 1.3 billion schilling less than estimated in the budget. This is 2.5 percent, as measured by gross domestic product. However, this also means that we are also on the right track with regard to the fulfilment of the EU criteria and that, above all, the consolidation course, which was launched in 1996, has been successfully continued. It has already been mentioned today – and I think this is really pleasing – that we are also on course with the 1999 budget, that we are on the road well, but this is, of course, also a point that will not necessarily be pleased with the opposition. I therefore believe that this billing cannot be surpassed with accuracy. This is a successful social democratic budget policy, above all socially balanced, and can also be seen in the European comparison. This is a social-democratic monetary policy with far-reaching views, and we will therefore give this billing approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7807	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7828	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The Federal Accounting Board for 1998, which is under discussion today, has no criticism of the budget implementation – which has already been stressed by several speakers. The Court of Auditors also considers that the 1998 estimate has been properly implemented. Therefore, neither the Minister of Finance nor another person responsible for the implementation of the 1998 budget is exposed to criticism by the Court of Auditors. I believe, however, that I have already expressed in the Committee, that it must not be used in this mere statement. The Court of Auditors is also concerned about the overall budget development. In particular, he has these concerns because, especially in today's age of globalisation and the integration of Austria into a larger Europe, the Austrian Federal Budget, the Austrian Federal Budget, must no longer only be considered in isolation within the country. If one takes the framework conditions of the European Union on a scale, it must not be overlooked that in 1998, the Federal Government – the year now under discussion in the Federal Accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany – presented itself with a stability programme. The aim of this stability programme is to reduce the Maastricht deficit to 1.4% by 2002 and, subsequently, a balanced budget. I would like to remind you that the OECD has not indisputably criticized it, because the OECD stated that both the target budget and the pace are not particularly ambitious. Despite this, however, the development in the past years has been in such a way that the achievement of the objectives of the stability programme seemed realistic. I should like to remind you that in 1997 the Maastricht deficit could already be reduced to 1.9%, not least because of the efforts made by the Federal Government, but above all by the Austrian population in connection with the two savings packages of 1995 and 1996. In 1998, however, we achieved a lower value in terms of the Maastricht deficit than in 1997, a figure of 2.1 percent. Thus, in 1998, a wrong direction was taken. I know the preliminary figures of the year 1999, as it looks a little better again. The Maastricht deficit is said to have been reduced to 2% in 1999, but this is still a value higher than the 1997 figure. It should not be forgotten that the deterioration in the value of the Maastricht deficit took place in 1998, although, in particular in 1998, huge revenue increases could be achieved, which were not expected at all at this level. There have been economic developments in this regard, which have been particularly positive and have contributed to a reduction in the Maastricht deficit. The Maastricht deficit was higher in 1998 than in 1997. Special efforts will therefore be needed in the coming years to achieve the objectives set out in the Stability Programme. It does not seem to me to be insignificant in this respect, as the others see us and what the OECD, for example, expresses in view of the objective of 1.4 percent in 2002. I may quote literally here: "Even if this objective could be achieved after the current growth projections, it does not seem ambitious enough to prevent the 3 percent deficit limit from being exceeded in the event of unfavourable economic development." I do not want to say now that I absolutely want to identify with this very gloomy prognosis. Much more important seems to me to be: How are we, how is our budget implementation, how is our budgetary policy seen abroad and abroad? The view expressed by the OECD with this quote says that the advance of confidence, which we very much enjoyed in Europe and in the world, is largely lost. And that is the case with the Court of Auditors so thoughtful, that makes him so stupid, and that makes him worried. Therefore, in its 1998 financial statements, which had already been presented in September last year, he also warned that there should continue to be extreme restraint on expenditure and that the budgetary adjustment in the coming years would be a priority on the expenditure side and not on the revenue side, not least in view of the fact that the overall fiscal burden of more than 43 percent would hardly be possible to further increase this quota. The reminder given by the Court of Auditors in the 1998 accounts was not, and I would like to stress, the first. You will also find this warning in the accounts of recent years. In the Court's view, these reminders have been given too little attention in the past. However, he now welcomes the fact that, in view of the present situation, the Court of Auditors' reminders have now been rejected. I have seen this on the basis of the statements made by the previous speakers. Finally, these statements also raise some optimism in me, because it sounded out of all these words of the seriousness of the situation, and it also turned out that one had to proceed to a budget renewal. In view of this, I would like to conclude that, although this seriousness arose from a different point of view, which was expressed in the speeches of my previous speakers, may help to ensure that the budget consolidation should now be addressed with joint forces, however the future Federal Government may look. It is excessive – and the Court of Auditors has said this several times – and it has to be guided, and it should come about if all of us now implement into action the seriousness expressed in the statements of words.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7892	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7913	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The federal accounts for 1998 – which has already been said several times today – show a planned development, and the re-indebtedness has fallen to only 66 billion schilling. Nevertheless, this fact cannot be deduced from the current budgetary problems. According to the EU Commission calculations, Austria is in the final position in the EU comparison for the years 2000 and 2001. For example, the Commission concluded that the deficit in Austria will be far higher than that of all other EU countries – I would point out that there are known to be EU countries with a budget surplus – and even the stability pact’s targets could not be reached by 1.7 percent of GDP. The fact is, you, Mr Edlinger, have had to admit, since you became aware of these unsavory calculations last November, that the deficits projected for the coming years will not in any way keep you more or less miserably week by week. Moreover, in Austria we are significantly above the EU average with a tax rate of more than 43 percent. You yourself, Federal Minister Edlinger, stressed at the last meeting of the Committee of the Regions that you would wish for a tax rate of only 40 to 41 percent. In my opinion, therefore, budgetary reorganisation through tax increases seems to me not to be imaginable. You have also quoted the issue of additional labour costs in a newspaper insofar as you have said that you are also in favour of reducing the additional wage costs. But I wonder: How, then, should the additional wage costs be reduced if not by the disbursement of the surplus of the funds paid by the companies?- Oh, my God! Thus, the budget hole can only be stopped on the expenditure side – and many seem to have already agreed on it. Therefore, if this expenditure-side budgetary adjustment has to take place, the question remains open: What short-term budget cosmetics was it, in fact, that have led in recent years to the point that we could come to this budget hole? In view of this situation, it is all the more incomprehensible that the reform steps so important and expected by the population in order to secure pensions could actually become the summit of coalition negotiations. Finally, it also seems to be a real failure that you have not used the task reform commission that Wolfgang Schüssel has so often called for. If you want to save on sustainable and meaningful costs in a company, it is not enough that you cut premiums and overtime from above, save staff or delete budget costs. Sometime you get to the limit of the feasible. Sometime then, from within, you have to go the more laborious but also more effective way of conducting all the tasks in a company. You will discover amazing things. It will sometimes be discovered that tasks are done that no one really needs anymore. One will discover that one can place tasks together and entrust cost-effective other specialists. Even the President of the Court of Auditors, at the last committee meeting, said that he would spontaneously take up such tasks unsolicited. Therefore, as a new Parliament, I would like to conclude by saying: Is it perhaps because the SPÖ is now talking about having to go into opposition, and – let me quote – you brought it first – that perhaps the dog of Mr Finanzminister ate the sausage?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7970	As the next speaker, Mrs Hagenhofer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e7992	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Pecher, like many others, has spoken of a "budget hole". I really want to reject these statements. We don't have a budget right now! We have a provisional budget, and the budget hole is going to turn out if nothing happens by the year 2003. – That was established once. The federal accounts – and there you don't need to laugh! – for 1998 and also for 1999 – which has been confirmed by the experts in the Committee – is and will be fulfilled; the expenditure for 1999 will also be fulfilled and will even remain a little below the estimated expenditure. Let us stick to the fact and to the truth! The President of the Court of Auditors has also said that the budget implementation has been properly handled, and he has also said – and this is also said by the SPÖ; it is not true that the SPÖ had never said that – that structural problems arise and that they must also be addressed. It is today – even by the ÖVP – as if the SPÖ had never seen anything at all and never heard anything at all. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, it is not the way you have repeatedly pointed this out today and here. In addition, the President of the Court of Auditors has said something – that cannot be said clearly enough, because it is also clearly demonstrated that structurally something has been done very well in recent years, although in small steps – namely: Steps have been taken, but you have to do more. The population really understood these structural steps, which were taken with the two savings packages, and without major problems. That must also be said. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But of course it is already the question to ask, namely the very central question: How do I set up budget consolidation for the future? [[Abg. Fischl: Sensitive!]] This is a profoundly disseminating question, Mr President. - Yes, sensitive! [[Abg. Fischl: Sensitive!]] That's right! That's where you have to be careful. [[Abg. Böhacker: Socially balanced!]] Once again, the question – which was also the discussion in the Budget Committee – arises: Can the public budget only be rehabilitated on the part of the public budget, or is there any other measures accompanying it, so that it does not have to be exclusively rehabilitated on the expenditure side and on the staff? In this context, it has already been rightly pointed out today – just as Mrs Pecher has just mentioned – that, if you want to reintroduce something, if you want to introduce structural improvements, these structural improvements have to be subject to ongoing controlling measures. I have taken along the Court of Auditors' report on consolidation packages. In concrete terms, I would like to read to you a lot about the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the ÖVP also repeatedly claims that the SPÖ cannot save, the SPÖ strives too little. As regards controlling, the following shall be read: "The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs had not developed its own internal controlling instruments for the implementation of the consolidation packages." - Quote. Please, what private operation can this afford? If you take it so accurately, when you say again and again, the SPÖ cannot save, the SPÖ does not want to save, it does not understand, then you also have to ask what happened in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs if there are no internal control instruments. And here's what it says: "For budgetary control within the meaning of the Council of Ministers' decision of 4 April 1989. December 1996" – you hear! – "mainly served the data available for the federal budget. " - Quote. I heard today, the ÖVP knew nothing about the budget situation. This cannot be the case if the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been able and able to use the data of the Federal Government's budgeting system on a regular basis. But the worst thing is – this must not happen in a private company – if, as it is called here, the following happens: "However, the heads of the expenditure-intensive departments responsible for management measures were not involved in the running of the file." – End of quote. So, much-honored reigns of the ÖVP, an economic model certificate cannot be issued to this Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. - That's just to stick to the truth. I have quoted all of this from the Court of Auditors' report. A final sentence is added, which really needs to be said, and I have already asked the President of the Court of Auditors to do so in committee. That's what it says: "The Court of Auditors noted that to a large extent, the success of savings was achieved only through the work of the staff at times up to the limit of the loadability." – End of quote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) So these are points to which you also have to admit a little bit from the ÖVP, what you really want. We know that the biggest pieces are in the social budget, public administration and interest payments. If you do not already lead your own ministries according to these guidelines, but go here and just say that it has to be reduced staff, that is the simplest variant. My message on this: It's just to run down personnel, and that's how it's going to do everything on the backs of the working people – that's pretty easy! But that is also inconceivable, I would like to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is something else in the area of the Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, which I would also like to say. For example, the perceptive report states: "The financial impact of the individual consolidation measures was not comprehensible because of insufficient control instruments." Please, how can you afford such a thing? And then you go here and put the blame on the negotiator! And by the way, it says: "The target of reduction in staff levels has not been achieved." – So this was also a target that was not fulfilled. If the ÖVP says now that it has not known anything about all of this, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to be somewhat credible as you use it for yourself. But then you also have to go inside and say what is really going on when the Court of Auditors' report says something completely different. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already pointed out that fiscal consolidation is a deep-separable issue. This is particularly true if you know – we all know that here in the House, because it was also set out by experts in the Budget Committee – that in the next few years the big-born years will retire, because it is precisely for these areas that measures must also be adopted. It's just the question, which one. In addition, I have already mentioned this, it is, of course, essential in the field of public administration to introduce control measures, which provide for a target, but also for ongoing control of whether the objective is achieved, and if so, how it is achieved. It is not only the Minister of Finance who can always be accused of not having a controlling instrument if the controlling instruments in the individual departments are missing, as we can see from the perceptive report. Another aspect of the fact that the Minister of Finance is now due, so to say, to the fact that certain computer-technical programmes cannot be implemented, Mr Steindl. That's also a word. If you have a private company and want to make a bigger investment, you will also consider how you can achieve this in the next few years. However, if, in half of this planned period, the budget of a partner is lost, the Minister of Finance is asked, under the Federal Finance Act, to lay down the automatic budget procedure in such a way that the legal obligations of the State can continue to be fulfilled and are not at risk. So if you have such an investment project, then it must stop until you have a corresponding budget and can be reworked in the budget area. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is very difficult – allow me to say that – to endure a discussion when you know exactly: For a long time, the coalition partner has wanted something quite different. There is no other way to explain the process of the former coalition partner. What does it mean, if a negotiating paper is available, if it is negotiated that the budget for the next few years should, as it were, be continued on this basis, first to demand the position of the Minister of the Interior and then that of the Minister of Finance? I ask you and Mr Steindl: For example, if Mr Steindl had a company in which I would work, would he, as the head responsible for the company, transfer the finances to me and let me work there as I would like, and not as the boss sets out the goals? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8086	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8115	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a bit confusing to follow this debate. If, on the one hand, one hears the clear reminders of the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, on the other hand, who believes that these reminders would also have been found in the ears of Members, and if one hears the opinions of Members – for example, by Mr Wimmer – then I think that this has only arrived more than voice. [[Abg. Wicker: But go!]] Mr Wimmer and Mrs Hagenhofer. If you say – that's really too easy for me – we have no problems now because we don't have a budget, and that's why there can't be a budget hole, then that's nice speech. It would be important – but you did not have this debate – to make it clear whether a deficit, if it is already there or is to be made, is made up of positions that are forward-looking or not and whether it is quite correct in a political way – for the budget this is true anyway; you also wanted to stimulate this debate, but you did not lead – or not. Let us stick to the investments in the future! Where has this future investment taken place in recent years? Has there not always been a debate on research and technology billions? Haven't we always thought of them in vain? - That's a point. Another point, ladies and gentlemen – and I am here, Minister of Finance, with you: Can it really be allowed to grant millions or even a billion where it is not justified in terms of distribution policy? I remember – this is my special hobby – the pensioner's withdrawal amount. We do not want to take it away for pensions in the ASVG area, but those who register pensions of 40 000, 50 000, 60 000 S can claim a retirement pension allowance, and that this is also possible where the meeting of multiple pensions is concerned, where supplementary pensions from private contracts are concerned, is a problem for distribution policy. A pensioner who has 7 000 S of his own pension cannot claim this pensioner's allowance at all! And a worker or a farmer has no more than this 7,000 S. They cannot claim at all because they are not charged with the tax. So they have no advantage at all from this withdrawal amount. To sum up – and I am back to the Court of Auditors, who has the difficulty of covering these supplementary pensions – there would be a lot together if one had only the intention of really making the budget – in an area where it is possible – politically justifiable. This has nothing to do with interventions in pensions – unlike you agreed on in your tax package. This would be a purely tax policy measure, according to which a tax credit is withdrawn – and that is the pensioner's deduction amount for certain groups of persons, namely for those with high pensions, with 30 000, 40 000 S and above. Why should these persons receive a tax credit just as the others with lower pensions or those with very low pensions that do not receive tax credit at all? This would be a measure which could have slightly increased the amount of the new pension adjustment. That would be a measure that could have created a little more distribution-righteousness, and that would also have been a good thing for this old coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8156	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8177	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! At the end of the debate, I have now come to the floor to make two motions for resolutions – and therefore to take account of the warning and exhorting words of the President of the Court of Auditors, for both of them are suitable to have a favourable impact in a non-exorbitant but considerable amount of federal accounts, or in this federal accounts we have located costs that would have been quite avoidable. Thus, particularly in the field of genetic engineering, because of the unclear positioning of the House, while de facto not allowing any genetically modified organisms in agriculture until now, the moratorium has not clearly and clearly defined legal uncertainty for potential applicants and applicants. This legal uncertainty has caused costs for the federal administration, namely that there was a complaint to the Administrative Court, resulting in procedural costs that were undoubtedly reflected in the 1998 federal accounts. If this moratorium had existed, there would have been such a scheme, potential applicants would also know that at least during the period of the moratorium such applications could not take place, which would have prevented avoidable costs. This de facto practice, that there is no moratorium, that is not approved, can only lead to administrative costs. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I propose a second motion for a resolution on animal welfare as a federal competence. This request, which I would like to draw attention to, in particular, the Members of the Liberal Group, is identical with a request tabled several times by Dr. Salzl. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Did you copy it?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You seem to have just copied it!]] It is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Do you still have your own ideas?]] It's amazing that you're so surprised or outraged or happy about this request, I don't know. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: He's looking forward to seeing us!]] He should be familiar with you. It is the request of a colleague of yours. I don't know why... [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: He's looking forward to seeing us!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: He's not bothering us!]] It's nice if you're happy about this request, then you can easily agree to this request. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Of course, this request, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, has far more cost-effective consequences, which are reflected in federal budgetary law and in the federal accounts, because the fact that there are more than 50 standards in Austria dealing with the matter of animal welfare in the broadest sense – the animal welfare laws of the countries, the Article 15a agreement, the national hunting laws, the national fisheries laws – will naturally cause an absurd administrative burden. For example, there is also the need to carry out ongoing training, especially for the administrative bodies operating at the border of the federal states. Moreover, Austria has now been sued by the EU on the basis of the failure to accept those provisions introduced to protect experimental animals in the field of the EU, and this action will, of course, also cause additional costs for Austria. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is in federal competence!]] However, it is difficult to adopt EU law in Austria because it has to go through the nine days of land, because there are always different legislative periods and because a fully coordinated legislation, as it would be necessary to adopt EU legislation, is not possible. In addition, the rules on the laying-up and feeding of animals on transport are also included. All of these are EU rules, which, of course, can only be taken over by a federal legislator, otherwise we have the consequence that we have to bear the costs of lawsuits and court proceedings and that higher administrative costs are also incurred due to the fragmentation of law. I therefore ask you, in the sense of the cost discipline that has always been and especially today, and in the sense of the materials mentioned here, which you have often agreed in different constellations, not to refuse your consent even today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8342	Mr Schwarzenberger referred to an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8366	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has previously stated that the EU has threatened or filed a complaint because, so to speak, we are so difficult to implement national laws. I have to make it clear here that the matter of experimental animals falls into federal competence for scientific purposes and that it can only regulate the federal government and not the federal states. So the accusation that this is so difficult to put into practice in the country days is missing because it is already in federal competence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8396	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Petrovic, Mr Glavischnig and Mr Comrades are before me. I do not, however, see, at the best of my will, any in-depth examination of the issues relating to the agenda, Mrs Deputies. The applications are therefore not under negotiation. Mr Klubobmann van der Bellen spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8424	Mr President. I protest this procedure. Of course, the federal accounts have to do with the costs of the administration of the Republic, and this is precisely what Mrs Petrovic has tried to justify, namely, that this very internal relationship exists. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mr President, I should like to point out that in § 55 of the Rules of Procedure – and I assume you are calling for it – it means: "Developments... can also be requested in the course of the debate on a negotiating object in the National Council, provided that they are in substance related to it." – Who decides on this context? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: The President!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The President!]] Who? The last sentence, Mr Schwarzenberger, is: "If objections are raised against the context of content, the President shall decide." I repeat: If objections are raised, the President shall decide. It is nowhere that the President can decide on his own whether or not there is a context of content. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Schwarzenberger has made an objection!]] Mr Schwarzenberger has made a correction in the sense of an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was a real objection!]] This has nothing to do with the question of whether a request itself comes to the vote or not. This will be done by all colleagues who know a little bit about the GO – in any doubt they know better than I do. No one has raised any objections from this House so far. That is why, Mr President, I say with all due respect: It is not for you to make these decisions yourself. If you still wanted to make your decision on a more solid basis, I would ask you to ask in plenary who raised these objections. [[Call:No, the speaker list is exhausted]] The Rules of Procedure must decide what this is. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: This is exemplary for the new form of government!]] Otherwise, I feel that your decision – I am sorry to say that – is inadmissible. It suggests the suspicion that it is important to save the FPÖ in the room a vote, because in the past it has always been clearly committed to this matter, but now does not want to vote. Again: I protest your decision, Mr President. I do not consider them to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in particular not with § 55. However, as you now decide, we will of course have to discuss this in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8540	Mr Klubobmann Professor Van der Bellen! There have been objections to me here at the Bureau of the other parties, so I am fully in accordance with § 55 para. 1: "If objections are raised against the context of content, the President shall decide." I decided. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: May the High House also know who that was?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Who raised the objection? Was that a MP?]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Business treatment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, are you asking for a debate? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No, to business treatment!]] We do not have a debate on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Presidente! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Business treatment!]] Professor Van der Bellen: for business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8636	On your statement, Mr President: So, it really can't be that anyone from this room comes up here to you and tells you confidentially that he might have objections to what's happening here. [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It must be made public and kept in the Minutes. So that's not going to happen at all! That is totally unacceptable!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8671	No confidential objections have been made. Mr Arbitrator was here at the Bureau and raised his objection. I have accepted this objection and so I have decided. [[Lively Oh- and Ah-Rufe at the Freeman and at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: To the Rules of Procedure!]] [[General cheerfulness about the lively protest of Abg. Arbitrator.]] The next item is the report by Mr Schieder.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8713	Mr President. I apologize many times, but I hope you only confused two names now. Of course I did not object. I asked how you decided, and you said you won't allow it. But I didn't make any objections!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8752	That's not true, deputies. Here's a witness. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn refers to a concept official.]] They're standing here and they said: You won't let that happen! - So you have objected. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Live calls.]] [[Abg. By the way, I didn't say that!]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has now reported on business treatment. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8800	Mr President. I have held back for good reasons because I wanted to respect the President's decision, even if in the content I am quite in a tension relation to it. But since you have now announced that a member of my group who disapproves of what has not done so would have objected in this respect, I really have to ask you that this question be decided in a presidential which you are calling. So it can't be that you choose someone to whom you give a statement that you didn't make, either in public or in private!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8839	Mr Scheibner has reported on business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8869	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Irrespective of whether or not Mr Schieder has raised objections, one should look at the comment on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. In the case of Article 55(1), which concerns this question, there is a comment in the field of content, i.e. concerning the fact that motions for resolutions may be accepted only if they are in a context of content. There is a comment to this, ladies and gentlemen. It is stated here in the comment, as regards the expression "contental context" apply § 27 Note 2. And that's what I'm saying: "If there is any doubt as to the condition of the context, the National Council will not decide, but the President. If objections are raised against this decision by the President, he shall have the right to comment and may also amend the decision already taken. If the context is not in place, the motion for a resolution shall not be taken into consideration." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! So this is another case if the National Council – if the President does not have any doubts on his own – raises objections here. In my opinion, however, this comment clearly shows that the President too can comment on doubts and it is his decision. But only to illustrate, ladies and gentlemen: We had no problem at all with these proposals. But it must be clear that the Rules of Procedure apply even if you believe that you can "wipe one" at us.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8911	Mr Puttinger reported on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8932	Mr President. High house! I agree with my previous speaker because this is clearly regulated in the comment. I note, on behalf of my group, that there is no link between content and, therefore, the President's decision is correct in our opinion. We see no connection with the federal accounts. I would also like to point out that, if you really are concerned about the matter and if you are serious about it, you can make a self-employed request at any time. I don't know why you don't do that; you could do that. On the other hand, I do not know whether, with your request, you may no longer need the animal welfare law which is already in the committee at all. So for me, your procedure is already incomprehensible for this reason.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e8992	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9014	Mr President. It is about the tone and the procedure in this House and also about respect for the Rules of Procedure. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to this: They are President on a proposal from a likely government group. I would ask you not to give the impression that the Rules of Procedure are being used in the interests of a potential, a possible majority in this House. [[Abg. Scheibner: Awesome, this submission!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That is why I am saying this with all the clarity, because you have given the objections a name, that is to say, the name "seal". But Mr Arbitrator has only gone to the Bureau and has inquired about the state of play! I urge you to interrupt this meeting and to convene a presidential meeting, because I do not think it would be useful for such Rules of Procedure debates, which are not, to be held in the plenary session of the National Council. I believe that this is basically a predicament and that for tactical reasons the Rules of Procedure of this House are being tried – well, we say: to deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9077	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll stick to my decision. But we can discuss the case in the next presidency. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is an interesting explanation! We'll remember that!]] We shall continue on the agenda. Next word: Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9108	Mr President. Honourable Members! High house! Mr President, this is once again a day in view of your decision: It must not be true that there are majority voting both in the Austrian population and here in the High House, which prevent materially sound, important things such as a federal animal welfare law or the matter of genetic engineering! It must not be true that, even if they come to the vote, they will be rejected again by both sides of the pact! This should be different in the future in this House. I'll appeal to you again. Your conscience: We are here in the interest of the Austrian population! It is about the implementation of a popular desire. This is the highest thing you can do as a National Council: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). And if this does not happen here, I really doubt the responsibility and awareness of the representatives of this House to be the representatives of the Austrian people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9144	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9165	Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to me that it is also contained in the minutes of the House, which circumstances accompany the breakup of the previous government parties and the search for new alliances here. If it has always been the FPÖ, which has strongly complained when materials of the opposition have been pushed to the long bank, not voted or postponed under questionable circumstances and have not been dealt with in the matter, then it is quite different now, ladies and gentlemen! It is also remarkable in this context – this is of course not a coincidence – that this matter has been addressed by us here. It is a matter of matter in which these two parties, Black and Blue, have different opinions – positions that all have an impact on the federal accounts if you want to establish this material context. And you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, refuse to vote. I have to say, this is a "great" alliance that is beginning here! They are talking about transparency and about how you want to proceed differently – and this starts with the worst, with the most secret and disgusting way of refusing a contentious debate and refusing to vote! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Objection to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Why don't you make a self-employed application?]] This is a "wonderful" picture that you give: of a style that we will probably experience more often in the future. The fact that you have a president here who himself takes a similar contention and quite the opinion of our clubman Van der Bellen shares, it needs objections, but you can correct it from the bank to replace a seemingly non-sustainable argumentation with protective aid from the ranks – you should judge that yourself. I find this miserable and impoverished!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9227	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9248	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! "Worthy", "poor", "poor" – what have we heard? That's a "fine" style that's being brought in here, ladies and gentlemen! - Yes, wonderful! [[Lively ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Petrovic! Do you know what's poor and bad? – You yourself have admitted that you have not put these requests into this debate to really debate animal welfare in order to really debate the genetic engineering law, because, unfortunately, now it is "only" – under quotation marks – about the federal accounts. In the first possible debate, you have been asked to highlight in some way inconsistencies, you are concerned that we may have to give up any principles or something in the way. These are your intentions! You misuse the popular desire for your political agitation! You misuse the animal protection for your political agitation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Crashed!]] That's your new face! Wonderful! Professor Van der Bellen, this is the one side of the Greens – one that is beautifully argued in the public with which you can have a wonderful discussion – you, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, are the second side of the medal of the Greens. The question is: Who's going through with you? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: On the matter! Accounting!]] I hope you will have noticed that this is not a debate on the Rules of Procedure, but that we are now discussing the matter, my colleague. Just to your reconnaissance, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, we would not have had any problems in accepting these requests. But I'm just telling you one thing: The Rules of Procedure shall apply to all. And if it says in the Rules of Procedure that the President has the decision to make, then we can get excited about it and then we will discuss it in the Bureau, but your abuse, of course, we will not encourage your political agitation. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, but I invite you to cooperate in the committees! I can assure you: We stick to our principles. Hopefully you too will stick to your principles! And if you find yourself again to argue objectively and to do material work, we will make sure that we really do a little bit more of the intentions of animal protection and the critics of genetic engineering and cooperate in the committees accordingly. Then it's over with the agitation. Then you also have to confess the colour of content and show whether you are willing to take the appropriate measures as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9321	Mr Peter Kostelka has now come to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9346	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. Mr Scheibner, that is what we want: to discuss matters. But that is exactly what is being cut off in this context. I tell you quite openly what motivation lies behind it, and I also say to you: You won't get through with that! The motivation is to avoid, Mr Scheibner, but also ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, a vote on the Animal Protection Act and the Gentechnological Release Moratorium – which the Austrian People's Party, your future coalition partner, has always rejected. We have tried on several occasions in the government, and not only in the government, but also in the political discussion, in the discussion with the ÖVP, to create a movement in this direction. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! Tell the truth, Mr Kostelka! Stay with the truth!]] What is happening now is that, with reference to the Rules of Procedure, you are trying to save the possible future majority in this House a decision. They are now trying to avoid politics with the instrument of the Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you: You won't succeed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Are you saying that we have influenced the President?]] Today, an hour ago, we submitted a request for a Federal Animal Protection Act. We will do the same with regard to the moratorium in the next few hours. You may today, with the help of Presidents, be able to spare this House and, in particular, the Liberal Group, but you will certainly have to make a political statement, even if the liberals are among the yoke of the ÖVP, who in this context does nothing but pursue lobby policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! You're going to prove that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9414	Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9436	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I used to experience liberties in the National Council and in the Vienna municipal council. I've usually experienced very loud liberties. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But you've never experienced anything like that!]] But for the first time I experience freedomable in "black" forced jacket, liberals with hands on the back, who put on the "black" nose rings and let themselves be led through the plenary. [[Rejoicing]] Mr Scheibner. As a "blue bear on the black nose ring" you are really a remarkable appearance!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9468	Deputy Pilz! I'd ask you to moderate your choice of words. This isn't a theater!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9490	Mr Khol! I do not know whether you have certainly given me this reminder based on the Rules of Procedure with or without a nose ring. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You disqualify yourself!]] Now go on to the matter itself: It is not only about the use of the liberal neck in issues of animal protection and genetic technology. We will experience a number of free government pirates today. The next one threatens to be neutral, and the next one threatens to be late in the evening when it comes to a decision on the establishment of a parliamentary...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9519	Dr. Pilz! It is now about the federal accounts and not about neutrality and not about animal welfare. Please talk about it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Lively contradiction with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grabner: This is unheard of!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] The speaker is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9570	Mr President. I know you on and on behalf of you as a Member who loves and appreciates the free word and the free debate. This is a new experience for me personally. I would just like to point out that, during his remarks, Mr Scheibner did not even manage to use the word "Bundeskonsolung". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Maybe it's a word that's too long and too complicated for a liberal, but he didn't even say "conclusion". Maybe he said "Bund," but the word "Bund" alone is certainly not enough because of making a connex. That is why I am now saying the following in connection with the debate on the federal accounts, because it is about money, taxes and a proper settlement of the federal accounts and we do not want to be confused by a threatening black and blue majority of the entire federal accounts: This evening, there will be a debate on a request for an investigation committee, not on the federal accounts, but on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine why the current vice-channer and perhaps future Chancellor has manipulated and pushed arms operations and possibly got money from arms dealers. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We are not in the cabaret!]] Mr Klubobmann Scheibner stated publicly: Whether or not to negotiate with the ÖVP, the liberals are for an investigation committee in the Causa bowl. [[Call the ÖVP:Bottom Loading!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You're a diffamier!]] If we wait a few hours, we'll see where the liberal neck will move. But for me, it's a great experience to see how out of the halls of screams are turning around. I still wish you a lot, good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9640	Mr Magistrate has now spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9670	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr President, I would like to ask you to raise the following question in the next presidency: Perhaps Mrs Moser, who spoke for himself, has been removed from the list of speakers by a parliamentarian of the Green Club. As a result, my previous speaker, Mr Pilz, was here at the speaker's desk. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's incredible!]] Mr Pilz! In view of this procedure, I think it would be better if you were not to speak of the "free Member", but rather of looking for the bandage and the nose ring in your own group. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Pilz. Of course, you know how the Rules of Procedure are here, who is entitled to speak and be deleted here, so how the procedure here in the House is. I therefore ask Mr Kostelka to discuss this question in the next presidential term. For me, it is a crucial question whether club workers can decide whether or not to speak to free Members who have spoken in this House. Mr Kostelka! To your remarks: I can still remember quite clearly that the Social Democratic Club last time did not support the proposal for a time limit for the Animal Protection Act. Mr Kostelka! I also believe that Mr Schieder's speech, perhaps misunderstandingd by the President,... – Mr Commissioner, first of all you have spoken from the bank in plenary, and secondly you have joined the Bureau's pulp. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't have a word message at all! I didn't even have one!]] There are at least two officials there who can also present what you said there for the President-in-Office's sake. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Kostelka! One thing I would like to write to you in the main book: They will not be able to distract you today from the fact that for more than four years, the Socialist Group has not been allowed to carry this law, so it has actually found itself at the nose ring. Secondly, Mr Kostelka, I would already be interested in a statement from you on how you can establish a causal link between a 1998 Court of Auditors report and a law to be assigned to Parliament by the Federal Government in the future – it is not a retroactive law, it is a law that will affect the future – and it will also cost only per futuro. Dear Mr Kostelka! It would be the square of the circle if you found a connection between a financial year that has expired for two years and the economic impact of a law to be adopted in the future. I and the interested public would like to listen to this. As a liberal, I also say to you one very clearly, Mr Pilz: We will not go through this political landscape as a "wisdom" or as a "crawl", but we will not give up our animal protection interests, which we have represented for years, after honest consideration, neither today nor tomorrow. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Glawischnig knows that she has been mistakenly addressing me and not our animal welfare speaker, Mr Grollitsch. Of course, we are behind the animal welfare ideas, of course we are in favour of implementing the animal welfare ideas. Of course, the European legal situation in this matter, which has changed, is an interesting and important basis for Austrian legislation in the future. And of course we also support what we have already voted in this legislative period, namely the deadline. But, Mrs Glavischnig, we are not against the fact that we are trying with tricks to provoke a breach of the national Council's rules of procedure in order to create a spectacle in the public and to divert it from the real issue of animal welfare. If you take part in the debate on deadlines in committee Openly and honestly expressing your concerns, we are free and fair partners in animal welfare, only because we believe that this is an effective instrument for securing our agricultural agriculture in the long term.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9742	Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has reported on business treatment. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9763	Mr President. Of course, my group takes note of the fact that majority voting is taking place. This corresponds to the self-understanding of democrats. However, we do not accept procedures that pose the risk of the Rules of Procedure becoming an instrument of the majority. I therefore ask that it be noted that the Head of Parliament has not said a word on the conclusion of the federal accounts, but that he has not been interrupted by the President. I would also like to point out that, in the meantime, the honorary accusation of "worships" has fallen, without – I emphasize: without! – that there was a call for order from the Bureau. The one who has made this regulatory observation is also one of the potential majority. – I want this to be held.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9802	Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! I have a lot of attention to the speaker, Mr Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. But I will, in order to please you and to enforce the Rules of Procedure, which stands above the parties, the minutes of the statements of Mag. Request main and make available to you so that you can see that you have dealt with the federal accounts here. I will also have the minutes requested because I have not heard the word "worship" or something like that here. Mr Mag. At least it didn't get into the mouth. If the word has fallen, I will proceed accordingly. Mrs Gabriela Moser spoke. However, I would like to ask everyone once again that they deal with the federal accounts and not with the Rules of Procedure, because the President of the National Council has decided on the admissibility of the applications. Mrs Moser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9846	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! The accounts allow for the first time a very clear and clear sample of nails, namely to what extent the pillars of democracy in these halls are really taken seriously in this area as part of the Court of Auditors' accounts and the accounts of the Federal Budget, or to what extent these pillars of democracy in this area are already being saw here in a debate on the clearance of accounts, are already being attacked, to start to falter. All of this in the context of the debate on a clearance of accounts, which would probably also have allowed the consultation with the main concerns of the Austrian population: with the realization of the demands of the popular animal welfare desire, also of the genetic engineering people's desire and with the positive handling of women's concerns. The closure of accounts would have been a very appropriate tool to provide the framework for more positive treatment of women in Austria in order to finally achieve equality between women in Austria in a wide range of areas. I would like to point out once again: The billing was drawn up and debated in a large framework, under a great pillar of democracy, and this pillar is called the Rules of Procedure. And in the context of this debate on accounts, the Rules of Procedure have been made clear again. In this debate, however, a national Council president opposed the Rules of Procedure and acted against the Rules of Procedure. In § 55 (1) – I quote it again – you can read: "If objections are raised against the context of content, the President shall decide." – Essential is the conditionality rate "Become raised against the content context of objections". – And all of this in connection with the debate on the clearance of accounts. [[Abg. Scheibner: Ms. Teacher! Read the comment!]] [[Call the Freeman: What year?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: From what year is the degree? Do you even know that?]] That is why two pillars of democracy have been wavered here and today in the context of this debate: On the one hand, the column "people's desires are taken seriously", and on the other hand, the column "rule" has been shaken. If you want to start your cooperation – with such an interpretation by a national council president of yours – then I must say that my faith in this Republic is weakening!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9912	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I also ask him to speak to the federal accounts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9933	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the 1998 Federal Accounts. We have complained in the Committee on Budgets about the fact that, although we have current budgetary policy issues, we are discussing loud data from the past. However, it is in the nature of the matter: A federal billing is always a work of the past. I would therefore like to say the following: Ladies and gentlemen, because this federal billing is also the end of an accounting year and the days we are currently experiencing will perhaps go into history once as the end of a 30-year-old era – perhaps, I say, because the decision has not yet been made –: I am aware – with many very much melancholy, also a lot of pain with it – that we have had many common successes, but I really want to appeal to all political groups not to start the restart after a possible end of a 30-year-old era, here from the first day on which perhaps an end of this era will occur to speak of the collapse of the pillars of democracy! My personal impression is that there is a conscious attempt to stage a political spectacle here, in the context of a debate on the Rules of Procedure, a spectacle that is inappropriate in view of the dignity of this House. Even in the event of future changes, let us not forget: This House has a dignity and should not, Mr Pilz, be a gallery for political cabaret or a stage for political spectacles.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e9973	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the approval of the Federal Accounts for 1998, together with the title and receipt in 27 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law, which approves the Federal Accounts for the year 1998, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: ( towards SPÖ and ÖVP) Look, look, they harmonize!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. The approval of the Federal Accounting Office for 1998 was thus granted in third reading. 2. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Perception Report (III-5 of the Supplements) on the consolidation packages (28 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10016	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. Mr Hermann Böhacker was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10049	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr President, I can assure you that I will deal exclusively with the Court of Auditors' present report on enforcement, although I would be pleased to comment on some of the statements, especially those made by Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. The Court of Auditors' report on consolidation packages is undoubtedly an exciting, interesting, informative and, as I would like to say, an objective work. I am therefore not in favour of expressing my thanks from this point of view from the Court of Auditors and its staff, but also from the Wifo for this work on the consolidation package. If the impact of the 1995 and 1996 consolidation packages is assessed from the point of view of this Court of Auditors' report, its judgment can be brought to the simple denominator: Praise and Tadel! On the other hand, consider the impact of the consolidation packages from today's point of view, with the knowledge of today – keyword: Budget hole in the order of between 20 and 63 billion schilling – then you can rather bring it to another denominator, namely: Operation succeeded, patient dead! Ladies and gentlemen! More and more Austrian citizens are right to ask themselves the question: Why did we actually have to take these load packs, these so-called consolidation packages, why did we have to swallow this crotch if we are facing a budget chaos again today? The positive points from this perceptive report are listed relatively quickly. First of all, we should mention the fact that the Maastricht criteria could be achieved through a massive tax burden on Austrian citizens. However, I would also like to point out that it was the countries and communities that made a significant contribution to this. Secondly, it should be noted that the explosion-like development of the budget deficits of 1992, 1993, 1994 – but I would like to point out already: under the responsibility of socialist finance ministers – has been slowed down. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: Among Socialist Finance Ministers?]] Right! 1992, 1993... [[Federal Minister Edlinger: The intrusion also among socialist finance ministers!]] That's right, too! But you, Mr Finanzminister, have said quite quickly that all these burden measures would be necessary only because budgetary policy in 1992, 1993 and 1994 would have been so disastrous. But it was also Social Democratic Finance Ministers who incubated this soup. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The criticism of the consolidation packages is much more extensive. The Court of Auditors also presented it in its report. I would like to sum up this criticism in seven points. First of all, the negative macroeconomic impact of these tax packages on the labour market is to be mentioned on the employment figures. The consequences were fewer workers, higher unemployment rates and a reduction in economic growth. The second point concerns the micro-economic impact of these tax packages: the impact on businesses and their employees, in particular the restriction on the investment potential of the establishments concerned. Another third criticism of the Court of Auditors is that no administrative simplification has been carried out in the context of these consolidation packages, within the framework of the laws that have been created in this context. On the contrary: There was a massive flood of tax bureaucracy. I'm just saying a keyword: Employment contracts. In this House, there was a need to exert effort to achieve a small reduction in the problems arising from the work contracts at the Constitutional Court. I also point out that these tax packages, the tax laws adopted in the context of these consolidation packages, have also led to a disparity between the commercial and tax provisions, which certainly does not benefit businesses. Fourth review: These consolidation packages have an extreme social gap. They are particularly detrimental to those involved in small and medium-sized incomes. Fifth review: These tax packages are determined in an essential area of one-off measures, preferential effects, pre-taxes for future budgets, and we have the result today – despite a load package in a scale of more than 130 billion schillings that the citizens had to digest! – to carry: a budget hole, which, depending on interpretation, amounts to between 20 and 63 billion schilling. It will then be 63 billion if "nothing happens", as the Minister of Finance always uses to say. Sixth review: This Court of Auditors report clearly shows that there has been a break in the German Government. You have always stated clearly and clearly: two thirds of expenditure savings, a third revenue increase! The Court of Auditors notes, on the other hand, that it is about fifty-fifty, half-half. So this is a clear break from the Federal Government. 7th: The Court of Auditors has also documented in detail the criticism of the situation of this tax package: too little assessment periods; more than a hundred laws have been amended; the budgetary impact has not been properly presented. In summary, you can say: We have almost articulated all these criticisms in the context of the debate on the tax packages, but we have been ridiculed and ridiculed for them. I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors for listing the entire "grievances" of these tax packages in this report on page 150. There you can understand exactly what burdens have been imposed on the citizens – they have almost forgotten it – there. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: We will reject this consolidation report, but not because we do not appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors, and not because we disregard the work of the Economic Research Institute on the macroeconomic impact of these consolidation packages, but because we reject the content of the policy which was the prerequisite for these tax packages, namely the socialist tax and budget policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10118	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Franz Steindl. He'll talk to us for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10142	Values Members of the Federal Government! If we are discussing the Court of Auditors' present exercise report today, we need to see the environment fairly. Already 1994 – 1995 elections; I came to Parliament for the first time – there were discussions... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Mr Böhacker! You know very well that it was Wolfgang Schüssel who finally forced a correction by the 1995 elections. It was already clearly pointed out in those days that the path taken must not be taken further. At that time, there was a Finance Minister – who has already been forgotten, namely the Minister of Finance Staribacher – who denied everything and meant that everything was fine. After the 1995 election, reform packages were put together and reform packages were tried to implement them in the next few years. There was an enormous time pressure back then. If the Court of Auditors now criticizes this – perhaps rightly – then I must say: It was no different to introduce the necessary reforms as soon as possible. There were regulations; I admit that openly. We have always said: two-thirds of expenditure savings, a third revenue increase! Unfortunately, we have not achieved this in this respect. There is a study of the Wifo, in which it is estimated: 45 to 55. It's about this ratio. [[Abg. Böhacker: 46 to 54!]] We now note that these structural changes – there were structural changes – are not enough. It turns out now. Therefore, the criticism is justified that we as legislators should continue to care for, for example, the follow-up costs of laws in the future. Mrs Fekter has already pointed out to the House that it is not just lapidar who approves a sentence in the explanatory statement, but who questions the laws to study them properly. Who of us here is doing this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] It is not only the impact on the administration but also those on the environment to take account of the economy. Therefore, we should sit down and try to do so – we have already had the hearing in the Budget Committee more often – because we have something to change. I also give the Court of Auditors the right to say that we need to improve budget control. Approaches are available, but it should be even better developed. I also give the President of the Court of Auditors the right – and it will be the responsibility of the next government to look at it – if he believes that the tax rate of currently 42, 43 percent should not be increased. On the contrary: We need to see that on the expenditure side – and we have said this time and again – structural measures are being introduced over and over again. As mayor, however, I would also like to stress: The fact that we have achieved the Maastricht objectives is also due to the countries and communities. [[Abg. Böhacker: I said that too!]] We have met the targets in recent years, we have brought in an increase of 0.5 percent. Whether this will be able to last in the next few years, I very much doubt. There were, of course, various discussions concerning the resorts, and for this, we have to say fairly: All the departments were reviewed, the Court of Auditors discussed only four locations, and in the public only the criticism of these four departments succeeded. I also find unfair what the ORF has done in this context, namely to make an evaluation after the Court of Auditors meeting, in order to say that everything is in the seat of the Minister for Finance, but with the other departments there are irregularities or the objective has not been achieved. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Even in your department, Mr. Finanzminister, everything is not right, for example, in the rewards there were targets of minus 50 percent. What do you have? She's reached? Plus 28 percent! Or: As regards the Ministry of Defence, there was criticism that there were predispositions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] All right! With the approval of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Defence has also concluded contracts, long-term contracts towards tanks and so on. You have to see this problem or complex in the long run, if you already want to discuss and criticize it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's a problem!]] It is also possible to move towards SPÖ, the Minister of the Interior, who has also done pre-taxes on the basis of lease contracts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Where is the difference, Mr. Edler? Have you read this report? In this list I could continue, but I hope that will still be done by my colleagues. In my opinion, the Minister for Education is also wrongly criticised. If there was a point landing when the targets were achieved, then in their place of business. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] One thing has to be said: that 90 percent of the expenditure – Mrs Colleague, perhaps you do not know – is staff expenditure. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, yes! I'm informed!]] There is no way to make savings. Show Once before – you were a national councillor – you can do this if, for example, there are links of competence of the kind that the Federation is with the national teachers of the payers and the countries are recruiting themselves. The Minister does not even have a review competence. With this list you could continue even further. [[Abg. Edler: How is the procurement of the army?]] My speaking time has expired due to the regulations. My colleagues will address the individual departments. I believe that we should take the criticism of the Court of Auditors very seriously and learn for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10271	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Werner Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10295	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Appreciated ministers who still want to remain ministers but will not be! Estimated ministers who wanted to go in opposition, but probably will be ministers! For both categories, the President of the Court of Auditors has made enormous criticisms in his report. I cannot therefore share by far the euphoria of my predecessor Steindl, but this is obviously the continuing role of the government defence which he takes over as a Member of Parliament and of the political group leader in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. May. Steindl: I have nothing to defend!]] Let us briefly look at the general criticism, and then let us come to the assessment of the ministries! It has not been a coincidence that the ÖVP ministries were exposed to a particular criticism. That wasn't a coincidence! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] They will not claim that this conflict between the Court of Auditors and the Committee debates has resulted in something that has led the ORF to put an entirely unobjective report into the world. Maybe it's got something for itself. But on that day, the budget consolidation debate by various quotations has already come to the budget dog. You already quoted Schumpeter today. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Right!]] With his quote, Schumpeter is addressed to the parliamentarians. He said it would be a miracle if Parliamentary budget surpluses were to accumulate instead of a dog's stock of sausages. On this issue of budgetary consolidation, some criticism is not left to the more ancient government parties. And this is also contained in the Court of Auditors' report. I have made the effort to look at the different opinions, at least our group, from then on. Mr Alexander Van der Bellen spoke quite clearly of the problems that existed at the time. All of these have now been confirmed here, for example the criticism that the laws have been whipped through far too quickly. Some ministries have not been able at all to predict savings targets so that they can at least be controlled in some way afterwards. In this context, I should like to take the opportunity to take the lead in the Ministry of Education if you permit, Mr Steindl. Provided, provided and admitted: In the case of a percentage of staff costs in the amount available in the Ministry of Education, it is significant if the forecast values of wage increases for officials differ from what actually occurs. All right, all right, all But only that is not the case in the Court of Auditors! [[Abg. May. Steindl: Call the numbers!]] I do not need to mention any figures to you, but the summary comments – I refer to them in order not to make it too long – are on page 191. The financial impact of the Black Ministry of Education was not even apparent because the documents were not comprehensible. And in the Committee it has been found that Mrs Minister does not even get clear documents from the federal states in order to be able to give the relevant answers. The Court of Auditors summarises that this is a total failure to meet the consolidation objectives in this area. So, that's, I think, cut off. But once again back to the general, because here it was pretended that budget consolidation would not also result in costs. That is what we want to know in retrospect. Of course, the Greens are committed to an efficient budget policy, but real natural law does not exist in terms of whether the budget deficit must be, as it were, positive, according to Schumpeter's quote, or whether it should be 0.5 percent or 1% of GDP or more. It states that it depends primarily on how the money is used, for which loans are received, and on the other hand, on how the financing and refinancing situation is on the international markets. Of course, it is true that an overdraft budget deficit leads to an essential amount of interest payments. That's clear! But a policy without medium-term budget planning, in Ho-ruck-Manier leads to what? In 1994 – I am saying this only because, perhaps at the end of the debate on these agenda items, one should dare to look ahead because there are parallels to now – to a tax reform that has brought great benefits, especially for the enterprise sector, but the savings packages, vulgo savings packages, so-called structural adjustment laws, have subsequently hit the more socially weak. You can't discuss this fact either. The Court of Auditors, through the study carried out by the Institute of Economic Research, has carefully recorded the relevant findings in its report. Of course, the impact on the labour market and economic growth has. There are lower income increases and employment situations through such savings packages. This should be mentioned for the sake of completeness. Next point: The medium-term budget planning has been consistently criticised, it is missing all around, and we have also noted this in the Budget Committee. A particular case in this matter, however, is – that really has to be raised in a very exemplary way, because it is an extraordinary departure; I cannot say it otherwise – the "black" Ministry of Defense. There really is no eye dry when you look at it. The requirements there are a story of their own, but the financial predispositions that have been received here, which you have defended, are unique in their way as nowhere else. Let us speak again to the President of the Court of Auditors. He also presented it in the Committee: The pre-taxes in the Ministry of Defence reach a level such as the total annual expenditure on property. There has never been that, and above all there is that in no other ministry. It's worth being held. What is this due to? – Of course, to procurement areas in the arms sector. Of course! That we have an ideological criticism when you put on the call for an interim call is quite clear. But where this leads and continues to lead has already been recorded in the next paper – Haider has apostrophized it as "paper of the greys". It is intended to finance the airspace surveillance aircraft, as it is so beautiful, outside the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Please, what does that mean? That means special funding again. I see again similar problems as in the Dragon financing, I already see how the writers and consorts put up their notebook blocks in order to record the data in good time. This is what this special funding will do to us. Of course, it's a burden for... [[Abg. May. Steindl: It's not just in the Ministry of Defence!]] At this height there is only in the Ministry of Defence! The Court of Auditors notes that the financial scope is completely limited in the future. That is why this special funding has obviously been referred to in the next government agreement – which is now none. I am just excited about what the Black and Blue Agreement provides for in this regard. If you go back to the citation of the Minister of Finance with the famous "budget dog", you get the impression that the budget sausage in the Department of Defense is in the future only a runaway sausage. Black people's representatives are very much responsible for this. You can't talk about that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now a few comments on the consolidation packages, because certainly one will stand again. Many people have serious fears on the eve of black and blue. I think you're right. I'm just looking forward to how far it's going to be a paper of "super-grievances", but you can take an insurance right now: However this form of government may and will come about, there will also be an opposition, and it will show a clear resistance in that area, where there will be differences between expenditure in the field of defence and social savings, and this insurance can be clearly opposed to the fears which, in my view, are rightly advocating. A green opposition, on the other hand, will be safe.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10387	The next speaker was Mr Brix. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10408	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Interesting statements have already been made by Austrian mandaters in recent days and hours. For example, the head of state of Lower Austria said that the chancellor had the trade unions "no longer in hand". He wants to express, in a sense, that the trade unions were trained to do what they wanted to do. He spoke with this of his statement against free Austrian trade unions. Mr Steindl came to the speaker's desk here and said that the ORF sent something critical about a minister of the Austrian People's Party. So he said: Why doesn't the ORF ask – that's not what the Steindl said, but I interpret it like that – just like the State Party Secretariat of the ÖVP in Lower Austria, what it is supposed to send? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] There is, as far as I heard it correctly, and I do not think I have heard it, a Member of Parliament Kukacka, who from his place has called the Member Peter Pilz "Wurstl" without getting an order call for it. There are morals, where people become perplexed, and I am convinced that in the next few weeks and months there will be a lot more sharpness, because if blue and black unite in love, probably with the time of the blacks will remain a little less, but the moloch will roll over Austria. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No artificial excitement!]] I am curious to see if, in a few years' time, someone here will be able to present such a report of the Court of Auditors – a report in which the strict and extremely correct President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors Dr. Fierce was proud to note that the general government budget deficit in Austria fell from around 5 percent in 1995 to 1.9 percent in 1997 and, at the same time, the federal budget deficit fell from almost 5 percent to 2.7 percent. This is the manuscript Rudolf Edlingers, and we have to hold it here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If Finance Minister Edlinger – however he may come in the next few days – will not have too much opportunity to harvest the laurels for what he has sown, the figures in this Court of Auditors report clearly speak for him. The Court of Auditors further notes that the budget in implementation from 1996 onwards had a lower deficit than estimated, and also notes that the government debt ratio has fallen since 1997. However, the Wifo also confirms that the greater part of the consolidation was on the expenditure side, in relation to 55 to 45 percent. No one wants to talk about it, but I say it again: These figures are documented, and these figures are linked to the work of Rudolf Edlingers and the Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It would be particularly interesting to know which sounds of the siren – Odyssey was then bound, the ÖVP probably got suffocated; that is, compared with Odysseus; that may have been beautiful women at the time – which hustle and bustle of the liberals has or could not resist the ÖVP, for it is directly remarkable – that has not yet been done in the history of our country –: The third strongest party – and if you can believe the surveys of the "Kronen-Zeitung" and other newspapers, it will soon be threatened in the Drop the electorate even further – at once the Federal Chancellor. Probably only because Schüssel wants to become Federal Chancellor. If you go out there and say that we also need to talk about the costs today, and Mr Steindl is talking about a budget controlling, then I must say: He is supposed to introduce the controlling in those areas in which one is making world champions in expenditure, in which one throws money out that one does not have. World champions in money spending, for example, are in the state defense ministry. There, funds have been used – as the Court of Auditors noted – in the report, which the President of the Court of Auditors has also announced in his speech – which one would like to have available today. [[Abg. May. Steindl: With the permission of the Minister of Finance!]] Mr. Minister of Defence! For example, the Court of Auditors is giving you a bad witness to purchasing policy. He says, among other things, that, due to your financial misplannings in recent years, the resort no longer has a room for new purchases, because rising presuppositions – I quote literally – are increasingly restricting the financial viability of necessary investments in the future. What does that mean? – In other words, you have no money to purchase the equipment for the Austrian federal army, which you ask for again and again and many think is necessary. I'm not saying I really need that, but you're saying you need it. I am curious about the way in which Members of this House – unfortunately he is not here – will argue, which has just recently said here that our soldiers in Kosovo have to be transported in unprotected wheel tanks or as this device is called, because we are unable to buy modern, new equipment. You know very well, Minister of Defence, that when it came to buying new tanks from Austrian producers, namely from the Steyr plants, you have had difficulties because the money for this was not available. We all know very well that already in 1998 and also in 1999 your budget was overrun by 1.8 billion schilling, if that was true, because you did not comply with the requirements. So, in the Ministry of Defence, Mr Steindl can really implement his proposal. Member Steindl has proposed a controlling – probably he has meant that you should finally put in your ministry a few caretakers who also take care of the money you want to spend. That, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact that is really happening. A second one: In this Court of Auditors report, you are also accused of reducing the number of planning posts, but of not restricting additional remuneration and rewards. This is to be read in the report on page 169. I can already imagine that: As there will probably be very high ÖAAB officials in your ministry, in your staff, which you will probably need and which have been rewarded with additional expenses. The Court of Auditors, at any rate, accuses you that you have not dealt with the money properly. We really have good economic data in Austria. We have a report from the Court of Auditors, which, as I said at the outset, says only positive things, a report which is the best witness to the Minister of Finance and his ministry. But there is a ministry, namely the Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs, which has been treated with the money as carelessly as the Ministry of State Defense. And then I wonder, Why does the ÖVP choose another way in the next few days? – That is why she will probably succeed in concealing all these mis-expenditures, finding ways to provide for their clients even more, which will result in the Austrian workers having to pay even more. All of these are probably the conditions under which you have entered the negotiations which are now taking place. I am already waiting for you to see who will always be Finance Minister in this Republic in the future – it will be one of these two parties – to ever make such a report as Minister of Finance Edlinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10485	Mr Reinhart Gaugg spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10509	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Scenes of a failed marriage become visible. On the basis of the last speech alone, we must be grateful that there is a political change in this country once, because there is much more sleep than we have ever thought. There are already talking and white hatred among themselves, in individual areas in which we have not even suspected. Once again, it should be noted that under a Federal Chancellor of Social Democracy, workers have become worse and worse. It is more than significant for Mr Brix to say here that if there is a change now, it will be even worse for the workers. [[Mr Edler and Mr Gradwelt. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.]] It's interesting which world you're in. You say it confirms blinding economic data to you, the best witness is issued to the government, and there is a voters who do not understand it. That's a shame, gal? Brix, that's really a pity what's going on in this republic. [[Abg. Brix: It’s really a pity!]] I'll tell you one thing: They live in a shadow world and get the bill presented by the voters because you do not want to understand your budget consolidation and can, in the context of which you have put measures in recent times – and this also confirms to the Court of Auditors – always at the expense of the more socially weak. [[Complaints with the liberals]] The workers were the losers, the socially weak were the losers in the time of this past coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But you don't believe that yourself! It's not a fairy tale hour!]] Budget consolidation has become necessary, because you were awarded a prize in the early 1990s. If you had continued this course after the 100 billion deficit in 1994, Austria would probably already be unable to pay. And this is really the only interesting development within the EU, because the measures have been imposed on you from outside. Among other things, the Ministry of Social Affairs is the worst. This has led to the fact that those responsible in the labour market service did not even know what funding for job seekers they were able to carry out at all. This has led so far that they no longer knew whether the projects already started can also be continued accordingly. Only you bear the responsibility for this! But there are also good examples, and I regret that the Court of Auditors is one of the few who shows how it could work: He has 14 unoccupied departments. I do not think that is absolutely true: that precisely at a time of economic need for consolidation, the authority which is to produce the evidence of consolidation is more or less forced to make such savings, because the individual ministries are unable to do so. Today – whether by the Ministry of Education or by the Ministry of Social Affairs – we cannot do anything, because the countries are responsible, that is just a cheap excuse and not anymore. Mr Brix, because the enthusiasm was so great that everything is so good anyway, I would like to say to you: [[Abg. Brix: Not everything! Not in the Ministry of Defence and Education!]] We have drifted into international economic data. We were supposed to be a model country, a show country, with regard to budget and others. Internally, at least this has always been said, international observers have seen this a little more critical. We have drifted away as far as GDP and other things are concerned. Their actions have not brought us forward. Among those measures you have taken is not a single one that is permanent. They have achieved the budget target, consolidation, but not through particularly effective strategic measures, through individual actions, individual measures. The increase in financing costs in the coming years has not yet been taken into account. Nothing has yet to be done in those areas that you were responsible for. Or: the question of measures for older workers. It has become cold in this Republic. The social cold of social democracy is terrifying. They go with absolutely good figures on labour market management, knowing that we have an exorbitantly high increase in unemployment in the area of older workers. Or: They agree to disbursements in which liability is probably still taken over by the Republic, but a chance that Parliament has a proof... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: How many distributions will you make?]] I can tell you today, Mr Kostelka. We will make them so that responsibility or control remains in Parliament. [[Federal Minister Edlinger: But that's not possible!]] That's not how it's going: Distinguishing the liability... [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: Mr President and executive clubman smiles mildly!]] . Well, at the ASFINAG we are liable for 83 billion schilling, but it is not understandable for Parliament whether it is being properly managed there. We will demand that, when disbursements take place and the Austrian taxpayer is liable with his tax schilling, there is also the possibility of checking whether the tax money is properly handled there. This is essentially different from you, Mr Kostelka. That's a very important difference. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Let's talk about it in half or three quarters of a year!]] There will also be no such embarrassing measures as you have put in place. One of the most embarrassing measures you have taken in recent years was the reduction of the allowance for the care homes. This was a measure that no one understands to this day. And that's social democracy? I can only say: Thank you, that's it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10647	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10668	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! I would like to begin by saying that this Court of Auditors report provides information on whether and how the objectives of the 1996 and 1997 consolidation package have been achieved. The main objective of this package was, after Austria's accession to the European Union, to reach as quickly as possible those criteria which allow us to adopt the common European currency, because for a country like Austria, a very export-oriented country in the European Union, it would have been extremely difficult if we could not have gone the way towards the euro, a path that has also gone that country, whose currency has been linked to our schilling for more than two decades to a very strong degree. I do not want to tell myself what would have happened if we had not succeeded in reaching the convergence criteria if the D-Mark had disappeared, but the schilling had remained true. I am really grateful to Mr Böhacker for this – he is not here now, but I still want to say this here – that he has tried to justify why we were actually in the situation in 1996/97 to link this consolidation package. He has argued perfectly correctly and logically – however, I assume, with a different line of reasoning than I am going to do now – that this Austrian government has made massive deficits in the early 1990s. That was right. We have expanded our budget deficits at a time when, of course, we are always clever in the assessment of decisions, in the other European countries that have known that they are in the European Union and that economic and monetary union will come, already with budgetary consolidations. No one will be able to tell me here that it was in fact already in 1991/92 – at the time the Maastricht Treaty was decided – that the Austrian population will vote in favour of Austria's accession to the European Union by a two-thirds majority in 1994. If it is said that the consolidation package was not correct, it must also be said that these deficits, especially those in 1992 and 1993, have been achieved due to massive social policy adaptations of our social state. We developed the care money back then, we expanded the care allowance. In view of the fact that accession to the EMU is feasible, we then had to take back from macroeconomic considerations various things that were decided between 1993 and 1995. In fact, the Freedom Party would have to be aware of whether or not the measures adopted in 1993, 1994 and 1995 which have just led to this budget deficit were covered, because one cannot do one thing: criticise the fact of budgetary and deficit expansion in these years and at the same time criticise the corrections made in 1995 and 1996, with which part of these measures have been withdrawn. [[Abg. Böhacker: You criticized that!]] No, you did that! You just have to find out. Second. I have already told you that in committee. Sometimes I am actually surprised that we have committees in which we discuss for a long time and weigh the arguments, because if you come to the plenary, you hear the same arguments that have already been rejected in the committee – as if nothing had been said about that. It is true that the ratio of expenditure and revenue has not reached the extent originally intended. However, I would like to pay attention to one thing: Additional revenue is not intentional to be negative, and not in any case, expenditure consolidation and expenditure savings are positive in the sense of people, because expenditure savings in the social policy field mean revenue reduction for those concerned. It is often presented in the discussion as if the expenditure was due to the fact that some crazy bureaucrats were throwing the money out. This is not true, it is not true, it is the state that is funding benefits, particularly in the field of social policy, offensive benefits, in order to comply with those social standards which we are rightly proud of in our country and which we do not want to reduce under any circumstances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that I also believe that primary expenditure needs to be set aside. I have already said it today in the current hour: We have moved very, very far in the coalition negotiations from a social democratic point of view. I agreed with some of the things I actually had a bad feeling. For example, we have not enforced the fact that social transfers have to be staggered to a great extent after income. I have not had a good feeling that we are making corrections in the social policy field, but on the other hand I agree with billions for the armaments of the Austrian federal army. I have not had a good feeling, ladies and gentlemen, and the negotiators know that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have and would have contributed to this, because I believe it would have been wise in this country to continue this coalition. But, of course, I take note of political decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least, a statement that goes a little bit personal, because a quote I have mentioned has played a role in all the media and even today in the discussion. I said: I would rather let my dog look after my sausage than the Austrian People's Party on the finances of taxpayers. And that is what I meant, ladies and gentlemen. [[He was in favour of the SPÖ and Dr. Pilz and Dr. Moser.]] I also noticed the fact that there are capable political groups in this House – for, gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party, I assume that the liberals also had these considerations when they did not waste a thought of leaving you to the Minister of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10737	Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10761	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, I assume as a dog friend, you have a well-educated dog. I would like to comment on Chapter XII, teaching, which has already been called negative by some Members of this House today. I did not wonder about Mr Brix's artificial excitement, she was already in committee or in subsequent statements. But I wondered about Mrs. Hagenhofer. I am now saying this following what the Federal Minister has said, namely that behind everything we have to save on, there are, of course, people and human fates. I have already been surprised that Mrs Hagenhofer has put aside the savings on staff for inconsistency and stupidity, but in the next sentence the Federal Minister for Education has drawn up the extension of her staff status, which is not at all true. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Education is in itself a big place, and we have already heard it: 90 percent of the budget is the staff costs for teachers. There is therefore very little financial flexibility in this area. On the other hand, there are very many and high demands in education and training here in the House, because this place is also a future venue and education is one of the most essential prerequisites for the successful future of our young people. That is why we also confess to it. As my colleague Mr Steindl has said, we do not entirely agree with the assessment of these measures which have been adopted. Here the word "point landing" has fallen; I can join it in full. If there is a difference in the budget of 0.8 per cent and 0.23 per cent, then one can very well speak of a budgetary point landing. One thing is also important to say that some of the influences on the Minister's ability to design are different. It has also been mentioned that, for example, the state teachers are to be paid out of the Federal Budget, but ultimately the country itself has the possibility to design. In principle and globally, it is absolutely positive to note that the consolidation or budget targets have been met very well. There are a number of structural measures put in place by the Federal Ministry and which, of course, were budget effective. One point is the new billing of multi-services, which has led not only to savings measures but also to a turnaround of trends. The trend of increasing multi-service demands has not only been reduced, but has also been gradually reduced. During the observation period 1995/96 and 1996/97, the total amount of additional service requirements decreased by 584 million schilling and the savings target was 609 million schilling. In view of this, it can be said that this objective has been almost achieved, even to the extent that the limitation of multiservices has reached a level of 22 percent and has certainly affected many teachers. Another point is the reduction of the hourly boards at primary schools, at the lower secondary level, i.e. the reduction of value units, the shift of teacher training to teaching time and the streamlining of school organisations. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, we have made many wishes from this House to the Minister, who will, of course, be coming back in the next few years. Think about it. Of course, our desire to bring the students to higher vocational education alone has caused a greater number of students in these schools. This is most evident from the fact that from 1994/95 to 1998/99 and 2000 and 2000 respectively, 14 000 pupils enjoy their education in higher education. The increase between 1987 and 1989 alone in the amount of 12 000 pupils means enormous redeployment, and ultimately all the additional costs that will be borne by the framework must be reduced again by organisational measures. In the short time available to me, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance very much, because everything that has happened to additional expenditure has been exceeded – and it was finally agreed with the Minister of Finance – has a future effect. The President of the Court of Auditors has written in his summary: In addition to all the population groups that have been burdened by this consolidation package, it is the public service which has had to bear a high share of these expenditure-side measures. I would like to join this in particular with regard to the area of teachers, which we very much thank.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10824	Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10849	Mr President. My women's ministers! Unfortunately, both the Minister of Finance and the President of the Court of Auditors have had to leave the room. Surely this report by the Court of Auditors on the hardest financial package in the Second Republic with its hard impact on the population is quite a milestone and a scale in some respects. These figures, which have been repeatedly mentioned, are behind these consolidation data, which you repeatedly praised, are people, people who have been removed from services, people who have therefore also lost jobs, are standing up for people who, in some cases, also had much less money to spend and consume it. This Court of Auditors report has, in particular, made very knowledgeable findings with the help of the Wifo. I would like to put this one weight on the craftsmen's criticisms and the other weight on the content, on the human aspects. First of all: The Court of Auditors is clearly criticising the fact that the budgetary calculation obligations have not been met, that in the haste, especially in the hectic environment of the parliamentary gear, poor calculations have often been made no calculations and in so far a very, very uncertain terrain has been entered in budgetary policy. The President of the Court of Auditors in the Committee has also made a proposal, which I would like to repeat in plenary session, because it is recorded here: In order to stop these calculation failures in order to avoid these uncertainties, be it for the budget, whether it be for consolidation packages, or for structural action packages, we urgently need a parliamentary financial control, a controlling that checks the impact of parliamentary decisions on their budgetary effectiveness. This is urgently necessary so that we do not have to end up experiencing unpleasant and very hard surprises for many people. This will have a request from us on the content. The second priority, human, has also been very clearly expressed in the Court's calculations and, above all, in the opinions of the Wifo. The Minister of Finance himself said that he had a bad conscience because consolidation was at the expense of the socially weak. He stressed that he also had a bad feeling because these consolidation measures were particularly taken by women, especially those who already have little revenue and can therefore consume little. But this confession comes only in view of the fact that there must soon be another finance minister. And I am particularly missing from your group this social voice, the social voice that really needs to be raised in the face of these tough consolidation measures, this social voice, which must be raised in the future, because this consolidation pact has lost its effect again. The 1.9 percent are practically past, 2.7 percent are present, and I don't know what the future will be. Above all, we must look at it more socially, and the social disparity which the Wifo repeatedly creates here is to be avoided in the future; it must not become reality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I just want to support this with some data. Here it is clear that the reduction of expenditure in 1997 was particularly severe in the social field and has been very massive in this area. It was clearly noted by Wifo: Demand reduction, high unemployment, weaker growth. The Austrians have only been able to compensate for this due to their savings volume. It was only because of the volume of savings that it was possible to maintain the power of consumption, so that economically not a collapse – as this consolidation pact with its naked figures has actually caused it – occurred. All of this is very, very clearly manifested in this report, which, above all, also documents one – and I would like to mention this at the end: The social gap is particularly evident in the fact that wages and salaries income increased by 1.3 per cent in 1996 and by 1.2 per cent in 1997, while on the other hand, despite – or because of – the consolidation pact, income from property and enterprise increased by 8 per cent in 1996 and by 6 per cent in 1997. This Court of Auditors report clearly shows that the social sector is continuing to disperse if short-breath consolidation measures are taken. That is why my colleague has already pleaded for medium-term or long-term planning of structural measures, so that this social impact does not take place again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10909	Mrs Gabriele Binder has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10933	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on the Court of Auditors' reports here: The Court of Auditors, for its part, criticises, first of all, that the extra-performance remuneration and rewards have not been predetermined, and second, that the enormous pre-taxes – around 7 billion schilling – are extremely limited and limited in future investments. The Court of Auditors notes that the consolidation objectives have been missed and that the overall control is insufficient. In this area, it can be said of an overlay in an order of about 3 to 4 billion schilling. I would not like to comment on this further, ladies and gentlemen, but rather to turn to the chapter on social and health – it is written so, so it is to read –: The Court of Auditors notes successful consolidation efforts in many sub-areas. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, some facts and facts: This goal was achieved by the Federal Care Act. Of course, the valorization of the care allowance would be desirable, and I also agree with Mrs. Hostasch on the need for valorization, but of course it must also be a matter of budgetary sensitivity in order to allow a careful budget. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: There has been no such thing for years, a valorization!]] In this context, however, I would like to insist, Mrs Haidlmayr: The care allowance is designed to be able to purchase and finance additional benefits for the caregiver, and is not intended to be an additional pension or an increase in the pension on and on itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr]] It is intended exclusively for assistance, and I believe that we can be proud of our care money, because it is, as I mean, unique in Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the field of supply law, the Court of Auditors recognises the successful consolidation measures. In the field of personnel, there is a recommendation that officials of the Offices of the AMS should be properly presented in the Federal Agency's establishment plan. In the area of social security, the requirement for consolidation was 28.9 billion schilling. In fact, 32.5 billion schillings were saved. Consolidation targets could also be achieved in the field of health. Last but not least, a few comments on the Court's criticism of labour market policy, ladies and gentlemen: Of course, there are different interpretations on the extra expenditure of 4.9 billion schilling. The fact is that the AMS was legally obliged – by us, by the High House – to transfer 4.9 billion schilling to the compensation funds of pension insurance companies. However, since there was no cover proposal for this, the AMS had to add this sum, and so these expenses have to be assessed differently, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, the measures adopted by the High House are crucial for the correct assessment of the volume of savings, and of course those planned and not implemented – I only mention the term "worktime models in the field of tourism". Finally, ladies and gentlemen: In order to consolidate the federal budget, measures were taken in the area of social savings, but also to avoid abuse, to increase social security and above all to employ older citizens. This was right and good and necessary and ultimately also an important point to achieve the goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e10983	Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11007	Mr President. High house! Especially in the field of education, the difference between the fat and the meagre years was very noticeable. While it was possible to cover the budget by 7.7 percent or even 9 percent in 1992 and 1993 without problems, it was necessary in the years from 1994, 1995 to implement consolidation measures. We have taken these consolidation measures together. I would like to thank all those who have supported me in this work here in the House, but especially the teachers who have contributed to these consolidation measures. That is how we have succeeded in keeping staff costs almost equal. Those who are familiar with personnel costs, ladies and gentlemen, know that there is great effort to do so. In the school sector, there are a certain number of pupils, a certain number of hours to be kept, and this results in staff needs. Whoever says it would have to be held less overtime, must know that then teachers will have to be hired for it. We did this: We have employed more teachers and reduced overtime. However, we have also taken consolidation measures that have actually made savings. We managed to cut overtime by 22.5 percent by removing hours. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank the Court of Auditors and the President of the Court of Auditors. He made it clear clearly at the Committee meeting – I quote – that: It was not the case that the objectives could not be met; this is due to the poor data situation, especially in the field of national teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we have all shown for several years: It is necessary to introduce a new order in the state-state relation – national executions, an order in which checks are possible, so that the payer also has the control over what is ordered by those managing the posts. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to bring about a new conclusion between the Minister of Finance and the financial reference in the financial compensation, which is being re-regulated every five years. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is necessary, especially in the field of education, to see that new challenges are coming again and again. If it is criticized that the budget was not so well respected in 1998 and 1999, then it must be compared with the decisions taken here in the House, with the decisions taken in the Federal Government. When additional students are admitted, the money costs. When additional offers are made, the money costs. And if the budget was originally planned differently than finally negotiated by the State Secretary responsible for civil matters, then the budget cannot vote. Ladies and gentlemen! In the teacher's personnel costs, a 3 percent structural increase occurs each year, because teachers are in a service class that is very high, since most teachers are academics in the federal school sector. I also say it quite clearly and clearly: We can't blame the teachers for being in a higher age group. This must be taken note of. In addition, there is the increase in the wage that we are negotiating. As in 1999, this can be a strong increase of 5.5 percent. Please calculate You're the one: 5.5 percent of 60 billion schilling – this is the increase that is necessary without a teacher becoming more employed. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I believe that this House has documented the increases in wage increases that are very important to education. We have also achieved it by having 17 300 students more in our schools, especially in the secondary schools, in recent years, that we can give even more young people a well-founded education. I am proud that education has developed so positively, and I thank all those who have supported me in these efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11069	Mrs Mag. Beate Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11093	Mr President. High house! Minister! For the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, the Court of Auditors certainly notes some positive points, as my previous speaker said, but it also notes that targets in the field of social security have not been met, that set objectives have not been achieved, that there have been target deviations of up to 37 percent in individual measures, that there have been poor plans for more revenue from social security contributions, for example in the occupational social security scheme. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about derogations which, in my view, are to be equated with a mismanagement. The Minister also explained this in the Committee on the Court of Auditors' report as "a lack of clarity" in the calculation. Unsharpened, Mrs. Minister, is for me planlessness: No plan for dealing with insurance and tax payments. Minister! Maybe you need an extra pair of glasses, and maybe I can be your optician. We liberals are happy to tell you how you can achieve your goals! Without glasses, you are hit by your responsibility, the problems of the citizens of our country are no longer seen, even burdening the more socially vulnerable. What's happening? – There are no longer any rationalizations of the Austrian health care system on quiet seed paws, but you, Mrs Minister, are already on elephant paths in your department responsibility: Waiting snakes in hospitals, hidden self-holds, absurd chief medical permits, important drugs that are not paid by social security. Who's on the track? - The patient! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But woe to this, ladies and gentlemen, who may be showing these weaknesses of health care! [[Abg. Edler talks to Abg. Nürnberger.]] Please listen, my colleague. – In Austria, medicine does not set limits, but social insurance. Now, for example, a group of 200 Styrian established doctors have told the population that there are such rationalizations of medical services. Only: How is anyone who criticizes this system? Ladies and gentlemen! They try to kill him by threatening him in his existence. The Steiermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse, for example, writes this Styrian doctor, a long-time experienced family doctor who has shown this almost with the hammer of the regional health insurance fund in his back, which he is getting to feel every day – I have this letter here and can then provide it – that he seems to have no interest in future contractual relations and therefore the contract is irresistible. Ladies and gentlemen! We live in Austria in a free state, in a rule of law, in which freedom of expression exists. – That’s how I thought before I met your comrades’ Eastern Block Methods in Social Security. That's what it's about managing and securing the grains, cost it what it wants. Manage, Mrs. Minister, you can have a cemetery! We liberals want to shape because our citizens deserve a health care that focuses on them as people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I'd like to tell you one thing: I long for the hour when the government finally makes room for a free and visionary idea in a new government that works for the benefit of people in our country. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Kostelka]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11168	Mrs Martina Pecher has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11198	May be, Mr. Kostelka. - Do you allow? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I just asked!]] Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! On the occasion of my first speech in the last Court of Auditors on the consolidation packages, I was very concerned about the reply from Mrs. Federal Minister Hostasch. Either you have misunderstood me, Mrs. Minister, or your role model of entrepreneurs really comes from a time that has been behind us for a long time. They thought it would be unsocial if a company replaced an older employee who already has a right to a pension with a younger person who, for example, wants to build up a family and therefore urgently needs this post. I, Mrs Minister, call such an approach humane and employee-oriented. You do not even respond to it when I tell you that most of our employees, especially the younger ones, are concerned about whether they will ever be able to enjoy a state pension. They would rather put me in a light of the ice-cold entrepreneur and say – literally – that: You see your employees – my employees, our employees – only as a factor. – They not only face me, but also insult a whole number of smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs who fight for survival on a daily basis and see their job as entrepreneurs in the maintenance of jobs, because at a time when we are experiencing them, it would be more interesting for some to invest their money in American funds than to continue to "wrong" in their companies. Nevertheless, most entrepreneurs still prefer to focus on innovative products, the conquest of new markets, the modernisation of their businesses, the rationalization of tasks or the possible saving of costs. That's a fact. The work of employees is equally important to achieve the overall objective, namely the maintenance of the company. However important a functioning economy is, above all, for your sector, the Court of Auditors' report clearly shows that, despite significant savings in your area, namely in the social security sector, expenditure in 1996 and 1997 has just been exceeded by 10 billion schilling in your area and has landed again at a level of 70.2 billion schilling. The Court of Auditors, as a statement of reasons, shall: The excess results from the fact that economic development in 1996 and 1997 was significantly worse than forecast. This does not mean, however, Mrs Bundesminister, but that the entrepreneurs and the employees together must first earn what can then be spent on sick and older citizens. I have already mentioned the urgent need for a package of measures to ensure sustainable pensions. The reform in this area of expenditure is also of great importance for the necessary budgetary reorganisation. Nobody in our country, none of our employees can imagine today that an active person should receive two pensioners in the future. Finally, in the Court of Auditors' Committee, I tried to point out that increased health insurance contributions have been abolished since 1992. I've been researching and I've come to believe that this abuse, namely, that Active must pay more for rehabilitation than pensioners, exists to this day. The fact that I did not get an answer to this question from you, Mrs Minister, may be due to the confusion, which is due to the fact that my understanding of roles as an entrepreneur obviously does not match your outdated role of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11239	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Karl Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11263	Mr President! In the last two years, Mr Federal Minister, you have – and I would like to admit this to you – made a great effort to get the finances under control. However, they have not been successful everywhere, and we have also told you in some legislative project that this will not work as you imagine it to be. The revision of § 61, for example, has not brought the desired success, as we predicted, and I think it would be high time, Mrs. Federal Minister, for us to consider a comprehensive reform of the system of remuneration for teachers, so that it does not need such regulations that require a huge amount of administrative burden, but then, finally, a saving effect that does not deserve this effort. A comprehensive reform of the teacher's salary system would be much more effective here, and I hope that in the future we will be able to think about it and finally implement it in a way that makes it easier to control finances in this area. Mrs. Federal Minister! One thing, however, is completely incomprehensible: that the Court of Auditors had to criticise the inadequate control instruments so massively. It may have been that you could not provide information because you did not get the figures from the federal states, but then I ask myself, Mrs Bundesminister: What do we have such inflated equipment in the federal states for? What is there in every federal state a bloated national school council with many, many officials? What is there for a huge city school council in Vienna with many, many officials? Mrs. Federal Minister, what are they doing? What are they working if they are unable to provide the basis for such a report? It's your biggest job to know what's going on in schools. Why don't you know, Mrs. Federal Minister? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This question has to be asked: What do we have district school councils for? What do we have the various school inspectors for? What do we have the many specialist inspectors for? What tasks do they have? It cannot be said that it is not possible to obtain the relevant figures and data from these numerous highly paid officials over a longer period of time, so that there is a meaningful report here. However, it cannot be said that a report is being submitted to the Committee, which says that it was not possible to get to the figures, that is the lack of data, especially in the field of national teachers, and that some federal states would not have been able to provide such data at all. Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that since I was not in the committee myself, I do not know which federal states were able to provide no data at all or only very inadequate. I'd be interested in that, and then I'd look at the question: Why were these countries unable to provide the relevant data? Who is responsible for providing these data? And if the corresponding persons have failed to fulfil this responsibility, why are they still active in the area of this responsibility, Mrs Federal Minister? – These questions must then be asked. Because that the gentlemen can only occupy a chair and be well honoured, but they cannot fulfil their own task, we will not be able to accept that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11311	Mrs Elisabeth Gehrer once again spoke. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11336	Mr President. High house! I'm putting on a "real correction" as it's so beautiful. Mr Schweitzer. The National School Councils manage the Federal Teachers. We have all the necessary data from the federal teachers, we have all the documents. The Federal Teachers' Department has also been fully examined and calculated. The current legal structure in our federalist country provides for compulsory teachers to be national teachers, to be managed by the countries and to negotiate and establish the system by which the federal government pays in the financial balance between the financial referees and the Finance Minister. I have noted several times that it is necessary to agree a control system on this system. The National School Councils have nothing to do with this. This is managed and settled in the departments of the state governments. The current monitoring instrument is a audit of the Court of Auditors of the individual national administrations. This is happening, but this is too little, because it shows up too late when any deficits arise. The aim must therefore be to develop a new possibility of controlling, accounting and payment arrangements during the financial compensatory negotiations. This is the objective of the financial negotiations, which will begin now and will be completed in 2001.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11374	Mrs. Eleonora Hostasch has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11398	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I should like to refer briefly to Mrs Hartinger's contribution to the debate, but also to Mrs Pecher's contribution. Mrs Hartinger, ladies and gentlemen! If you practice such criticism as you did before, I will gain the impression that you have read a different report from the one before you and the one that is currently under discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to have any audited place to carry out such an evaluation, assessment and criticism of its conduct as is the case in the field of social and health. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Wherever there are deviations between targets and results in this report, it is understandable why this was made comprehensible by a time difference between the preparation of a bill and the final decision-making in plenary, it is understandable that the House has made and has made changes in its sovereignty and therefore has different effects. It is understandable that economic researchers' assessment of growth did not occur to the extent that it had been adopted at the time of the preparation of forecasts, but that it was also understandable that areas of the economy that should have met political expectations, such as the tourism industry or the construction industry, had not reached at social level those agreements which would have carried out excessive use of unemployment insurance and thus financing of sectors at the expense of third parties. I do not wish to mention all those examples which Mrs Binder has already referred to very detailedly. It has also stated that, if there is a difference, it is also explainable. All in all, however, in these areas which I have referred to, it is evident that the objectives have been achieved by far, in any case more exemplary than in some other areas of the ministries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I was also very happy when the Court of Auditors found that the controlling in my department was satisfactory. I know that if the Court of Auditors says "satisfying", it can be regarded as a praise. And I am also very pleased with the information given to my employees by the Court of Auditors and its staff, because a report of the Court of Auditors is also a reflection of our activities and offers the opportunity to optimize where there is still an optimization. But, Mrs Hartinger, I would like to say that I am speaking here of our health system being a bad one, a system in which patients are affected by the rationalisation of health services, in which the Austrian social security system applies eastern block methods. – If every country were as happy to have a social security scheme as Austria, it would be possible for every patient or patient to have the same access to health care in any country, regardless of the gender, age, whether rich or poor, whether rich or poor, and then the world would be more social, just and therefore human-righteous. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If such wishes are made to the Austrian health insurance system, which is the subject of statutory health insurance, it is to be said again and again that they must also be financed. It is not possible, on the one hand, to demand expansions in all areas and to satisfy all wishes without, on the other hand, giving legal health insurance the budgetary possibilities. There is a paradigm change that cannot be fulfilled, there are contradictions: If – rightly – we want to continue to develop our medical system, our health system at the highest level we have achieved, on the standards, with the quality we also want for the future, we also need the appropriate financial, budgetary orientation and security of this system. In this context, not only Austrian social security is required, not only health insurance is required, but also the countries which carry out a very important task, especially in the field of health care, also in the area of financing. I hope that the House will continue in the future to ensure that we can keep our quality standards in health care and, wherever necessary, expand them. However, all health care partners are also invited to help shape care for patients, but as economically as possible. I know I have an ally in the Austrian Chamber of Physicians, but also in other areas, when it comes to optimizing, even if there are sometimes different opinions. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say a few words to Mrs Pecher. She's been talking about an old role model. My role model of partnership in the economy, between employees and their employers is the role model of fairness, mutual acceptance and also of the common effort to provide services so that productivity can be achieved so that Austria remains competitive and that the jobs are thus safeguarded. It may be that in your realm this spirit is very pronounced. It may be that I misinterpreted your statements. But I don't think I was the only one who felt a certain cold and responded accordingly in your formulations. I should like to remind you that this has been felt in the Committee by several people. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you should already look around a little more, whether the role you claim to be the right and good – and I do not want to disagree that it covers largely with the mine – is really so marked in our economy. If it were so, then we would not have an increase in unemployment among over 55-year-olds, then we would not have an increase in occupational incapacity pensions and an increase in persons with reduced employability, then we would not have the problem that women over 45, over 50 hardly have any chance of getting a job again, then we would not have to ask ourselves again and again: What can we do to ensure that older Members have the opportunity to stay in employment or return to employment if they have been forced out of employment? I do not want a conflict between boys and older people – both do a lot for the economy, much for society, but they also depend on being treated by their businesses, by their employers, fairly, correctly, decently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you're working for it, I'm glad. It may be that, as a trade unionist and also as a social minister, you have more negative experiences than you, as an entrepreneur, who successfully operates in an enterprise. Allow me, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my remarks, I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors for the fact that cooperation took place in such a fair and competent manner and we could learn a lot from his findings and those of his staff.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11502	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 2.58 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11529	I'll start the interrupted session again. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Peter Pilzund Comrades on Austrian neutrality, European unification and the immediate implementation of a national survey 60/A (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11565	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 60/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11642	I call Mr Pilz to speak as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11666	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This day probably does not only feel that I am exceptional in this house. We continue to discuss under a social democratic-conservative government, but no one will notice anything of it any more. At the head of the ÖVP – and I will come back to it – it is not known whether the acting Vice-Cancellant and Foreign Minister will become Federal Chancellor or witness in an investigation committee. The larger government group exercises with varying success the role of the opposition, and the Liberal Group shows a pre-government fidelity, as I have not experienced it once in this House or in the Vienna Landtag: Stinging and cuddly, formerly protesting politicians, who always look over and think about what could hurt the future coalition partner, and therefore neglect any possibility of suffering, screams that have become so quickly revolving halls – it probably has not yet been in the political culture of this House. We have today experienced events concerning the handling of the Rules of Procedure, which were absolutely new to me. I did not expect an experienced president to place the interests of a Federal Government that had not even been praised on complying with the Rules of Procedure. We have experienced the shift of the liberals around the first applications to the new black line. [[Abg. Young: And then he wakes up sweat bath!]] And we already have an international echo, which must also surprise the government groups: From Israel to the USA, from the Scandinavian countries to Spain and Italy, there is only one thing, that is to say, completely misunderstanding about this form of government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: We have information about what your colleague Voggenhuber is spreading in the European Parliament so that you can get Austria so dirty!]] Mr Scheibner. We'll start with the next sample of nails. ==References== In September of the previous year, your partyobmann stated that there had to be a popular decision on the question of neutrality as soon as possible. That is also the reason why we have tabled this urgent request today. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, it's not about you?]] We want to see whether it is possible to establish a majority in this House on the basis of the promises made by the parties of the Austrian population. [[Abg. Young: Surely not with the greens!]] The attitude of our Greens was always clear: We want a referendum on the question of neutrality and possible NATO accession as soon as possible. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is not in your request!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You do not even know your own request!]] The attitude of social democracy has been clear until recently; I will come back to it. We will review the position of the liberals today, and therefore we have tabled two proposals: a urgent request on the content of neutrality, which is an attempt to restore at least on the social democratic side something like a clear attitude to neutrality, and a motion for a resolution on the referendum in which we call on all those who have promised to do so to stand up to these public promises. [[Abg. Scheibner: In your application is something else inside!]] [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Mr Scheibner. We will take a very close look at whether this promise will also be broken during this afternoon. [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, look at it!]] The question of neutrality has not been a question for a long time. It is a question of turning neutrality back into a sustainable and sustainable concept, despite its constant damage from the main exponents of the Austrian Federal Government. I'm right in one point: What has also made much of the SPÖ from neutrality in the last decades has been a kickboard neutrality, a neutrality according to the motto: We have nothing to do with what is happening abroad!, a neutrality that has nothing to do with what Bruno Kreisky once understood as offensive and the contribution of a small state committed neutrality policy. Dr. Schüssel, I would like to tell you one thing: Not only the Russian Foreign Minister and some foreign ministers from NATO have waited for some significant Austrian contribution to the Bosnia-Herzegovina crisis and the Kosovo crisis. Faith Are you serious about the fact that the shipment of the bought-in Austrian combat tank would have changed anything in the fate of Bosnia? Faith All of them serious that if Austrian Dragons had drilled into the Yugoslav airspace, Milošević would have said: Okay, we're giving up aggression in Kosovo!Unknown term type: "%s".? Faith Are you all serious that any military contribution from the military dwarf Austria can change anything in international peace and security policy? [[Abg. Young: Do you think your sayings change something?]] That's the one side. But on the other hand, there are concepts that we have not only possibilities, but also quite different obligations. As a small, richer and no one in danger, we have the obligation to offer our good services internationally, where no one else can or wills. We have failed in Bosnia, we have failed in Kosovo, and if nothing changes, we will fail again in the next major conflict, in the north of the Middle East, in the midst of Kurdistan, in the middle of Turkey, Iraq and Iran. NATO countries will not be able to make a substantial contribution here. NATO countries will remain committed to NATO partners and their military regimes there. The only chance is to provide non-blocked states with the necessary initiatives. Instead of breaking our heads on how we get into a military block as quickly as possible, you should consider for a long time what an Austrian peace policy looks like that reduces the new block formation in Europe and its negative effects to a minimum. That's exactly the point. But what are you doing? . They are trying to bring a duty to the negotiations to a common European security policy faster than the major, faster even than the NATO countries. [[Abg. Young: This is also more important for the little one than for the big one!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: For whom is the obligation to assist more important: for the little one or for the big one?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! And what I never understood is that you want to sign or sign a contract that contains military assistance. Hopefully you've learned in the last few days and weeks that it's not useful for partners of this kind if you drop point for point and conviction for conviction the pants. [[Abg. Young: You polemize alone is useless either!]] The only thing you get is that you got from the ÖVP. And now the question is whether you're ready again – after They have signaled that you are giving the neutrality to the negotiating mass of a surviving coalition – to restore a reliable social democratic position in this key area of European security policy. That's the question to you: Is there something like a willingness for active neutrality policy again? And is there something like a willingness to join us in representing the majority of the Austrian population on this issue? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Define the neutrality once! What is neutrality for you?]] You may be creating a narrow majority government, but you will remain the political minority in this republic on the question of neutrality. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is neutrality for you?]] I'll come to the next point. – In the next few weeks and months, it will also be tried to further reduce neutrality. One of the key points will be whether the Austrian People's Party and the Freeman will succeed in joining the Western European Armaments Group together. That's not any contract. This is a treaty in which it states that in Western Europe such a thing as a uniform, closely coordinated and coordinated armaments complex should be created. Fortunately, this will be highly acceptable as a state treaty to Panel 2, also through this House. [[Abg. Young: You want to depend Austria on high technology, Mr. Cot!]] But I really wonder how a foreign minister can negotiate a contract internationally, which is highly about compensation operations and their future, and which is even explicitly referred to in French arms operations. How, Dr. Schüssel, do you imagine that? Not only we, not only all of Austria, but also the informed public beyond our borders, know that, as Minister of Economic Affairs, you have deliberately violated procurement laws and have committed a billion arms order against the will and decision of your officials of a French company. And now you show up in the notebooks of a fleeting gun dealer! [[Abg. Young: How many notebooks are you in, Mr. Pilz?]] Now an invitation will soon be made to you, a committee abroad To explain your activity. Now it's getting tighter. You're in the scribe's office, you're in the Thomson affair. You need a lot of explanation, and it will not help you to have a commitment from the Freedom Party to vote in favour of the Investigation Committee today. That won't help you in the long run. And: What is that for a future Federal Chancellor whose existence depends on a possible statement of a fleeting arms dealer? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: A typical mushroom!]] How do you imagine this chancellorship when Mr. Schreiber comes before the press in Toronto and says: I break my silence regarding Austria and say what I know about Dr. Schüssel and the Austrian People's Party!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Lower than the deepest drawer!]] How, then, do you imagine the management of your duties? It's a little difficult now. [[Abg. Scheibner: A beautiful partner!]] No, Mr Scheibner, this is the partner you may have rightly laughed at. You really fit together, and in the discussion on the Committee of Inquiry and the vote on it, we will see how well you fit together.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11975	I would now like to return to the subject of the urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e11990	Of course, please. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell us what neutrality is, so we know what you're talking about!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Despite everything, I hope that this third nail sample of today will be something different from the first two nail samples. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: At the time of the vote you will never be here!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You're not going to be there anymore, are you still making journalists?]] I hope that a Freedom Party will also stand by its promise and that it will agree with us when it comes to giving the Austrian people the opportunity to decide on a national basis in good time. I hope that the Members of the Socialist Group agree, and I hope that there will finally be a majority in this case, which will also be in line with the interests of a majority of the Austrian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12072	For the purposes of the provisions on the urgent request, the Foreign Minister is now called upon to deliver an opinion on the subject, which should not exceed 20 minutes' speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12093	Mr President. High house! The Greens have tabled a urgent request for the preservation of neutrality, and we all have now heard the statement by Mr Pilz, who accuses everyone of turning away from their principles and constantly changing their opinions. Only: Is this the same Peter Pilz, who has now spoken here and sung the High Song of Neutrality and has spoken out against every intervention, but according to an APA issue – I have the text available – on 1st September. In the present situation of Bosnia there is only the alternative of military intervention from the outside, there is already an emergency force to intervene militaryly to destroy military majors and to blow up siege rings? Is this the same Peter Pilz who sings here the High Song of Neutrality and accuses us that we today recognize that in such a dramatic situation as in Bosnia, as in Kosovo, as in Chechnya, it is simply not enough to sit there and say: Oh, we're neutral, we're not interfering!Unknown term type: "%s".? Deputies! I ask for a differentiated assessment. We want to do this and we have done it, because of course the threat images have changed dramatically. The Cold War is over, we have today a variety of organizations that guarantee peace, security and stability. But how incomplete your own application is shows that in the urgent request of the Greens the word "OSCE" does not occur at all. It seems to you that very important issues such as crisis management, the spread of peace, conflict prevention are being dealt with in this organization, an organization which, as you may not know, is currently being run by Austria as a Presidency country. That is to say, what you are presenting here is certainly not the comprehensive stability and peace concept for which the Austrian Federal Government and, I believe, the overwhelming majority in the National Council have always committed themselves. So stop polemizing! We know that we cannot achieve peace alone, neither in Bosnia nor Kosovo, in Kurdistan or in Chechnya, but we are trying to do everything in an active, committed European and Austrian peace policy to reduce the number of conflicts so that refugees can return and the number of victims remains as small as possible. You don't have the truth monopoly here, Dr. Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is something more to it, and it is based on the text that SPÖ and ÖVP have produced in recent weeks: The knowledge that it is of course natural for the 15 EU Member States and those who want to join, in addition to a common economic area and a common economic currency, to commit themselves to doing so – that is the essence of the Treaty of Amsterdam – a common foreign and security policy. To make foreign and security policy, and we believe that there should actually be mutual assistance at the end of such development. If we are inside such a family of European nations, then it is obvious that each one must give protection and help to the other when it is attacked. This is the essence of a European guarantee of assistance, and this is also the new one in the texts that have been disputed together and which, as we know, are absolutely positive towards the liberals as a thought. For the first time, we would actually have a new, cross-party consensus – minus greens, I know, I regret it – in order to be able to approach us gradually on this path to a European assistance guarantee. This means, of course, that you are right, and we must also point it out clearly, that neutrality is no longer possible in an EU context. We are then in solidarity, and the later laws, Article 23f, as far as the Treaty of Amsterdam is concerned, or a European guarantee of assistance, which would also require a new, additional constitutional provision, would in fact limit neutrality clearly and massively in this area. But I think it's reasonable. This is a logical consequence of European commitment. And I give you the right to also anchor a peace bid for our foreign policy or for the principles of Austrian foreign policy, because it is quite clear that a country like Austria in this European concert should in particular raise the voice of conflict prevention, conflict prevention and peacekeeping. We are not the ones who, with used or new tanks, helicopters or weapon systems, can make an active contribution to the end of the fight. But we know that our contribution is a little more than rhetoric. And today, in Albania, Kosovo, Bosnia, Cyprus or elsewhere, we are doing something about the active foreign policy of recent years that you have obviously not even noticed in the Vienna Landtag. But we have noticed it, Mr Cot. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also beyond dispute – I would also like to say here – that we want to participate in the Western European arms group in the sense of this further development. This was out of dispute, and that is also very reasonable. Because don't forget: This is about Austrian know-how, Austrian technology, Austrian research and Austrian production possibilities. It would be absurd if we could take up such a common European arms effort! This does not say anything about the level of the Austrian defence budget and about the degree of militarization of a society, but it says that it is wise to participate in a part-time research and procurement cooperation. The second part has nothing to do with neutrality in itself. But as for objective thinking people to expect or fear, you have clearly brought in your latest wave of scandalization. That is why, with the permission of the President, I can at least justify myself or stand up for advocacy. Member of the Pilz for a few months – and this is not true because of constantly recurring claims – the wrong claim that I had broken laws in 1994 as the then Minister of Economic Affairs in a radar procurement order of the Austrian federal army. He claims that I would have broken laws, I would have manipulated everything, and that was almost the very core of his accusation, by German or Canadian arms dealers. – Let’s call it by name! They are immune, it is not me, but I would like to be allowed to stand here as citizens and institutions. The High House and the public should know what really happened. True is: The Ministry of Economic Affairs is not responsible for the procurement and purchase of a military plant, but only for the Minister of Defence. The Council of State Defense advises him here. – From the beginning, the Ministry of Defence has always emphasized its technical preference for Thomson’s offers and has always said that these are the best technical installations. It is the job of the Minister of Economic Affairs – and that was in 1994/95 I – to get the best possible counter-business offer. Before I was Minister of Economic Affairs – some friends who work in the economy – we have concluded counter-businesses on a rather weak basis. For example, the Saab planes have been purchased with 130 percent counter-business. I was able to reach an increase to 200 percent at Matra. And it was my ambition to achieve at least 3 billion schillings for the Austrian domestic economy in the business of this radar plant worth about 1.3 billion schillings. I say quite frankly to you: I can't judge the technology at all. I don't understand anything about that, and it's not my job to evaluate it either. But I understand something about counter-businesses and the possibility of getting something out for Austrian jobs! Deputy Pilz! I am proud that I – or not only myself, but also my officials – have succeeded in negotiating for the first time, through hard, tough negotiations in this particular case, a volume of counter-business of 270 percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's what you can blame me! [[Abg. May. Kogler: You do not know that only a company has been published during the offer period!]] That's not true at all! Of course there have been Hearings! In my opinion, there has even been hearings with all companies afterwards, so that everyone had the opportunity to get in here. Of course there is a prayer in this context, that must be there! My job was to get the best out, and I did. This was objectively assessed by the Economic Research Institute, which explicitly pointed out that there was a very attractive offer and that the opening took place towards the French market. The delivery of a very large plant area to France was possible for VA Tech. For the first time, orders for the delivery of rails amounting to several hundred million to France were carried out by the endangered Donawitzer Stahlhütte. The head of the Economic Research Institute pointed out that this offer was so interesting because these counter-actions were fulfilled within the shortest period of five years – to this day, by the way, the order value is not only 3, but already almost 4 billion schilling – while all other competitors offered eight to ten years! These are the objective facts. The Minister of Defence could have done the purchase theoretically, of course, without any countermeasure. Therefore, I am proud that technical first-class equipment has been purchased in cooperation with the Minister of Defence and that a first-class counter-business offer has come about! Deputies! Make-up You're putting off allegations that I'm on some sort of lubrication list! If you have a proof, out with it, then present your facts! But, under the protection of immunity, do not repeatedly cast out a dusk veil of suspicions that have never been proven! Do you know what Mr. Schreiber, mentioned by you today, answers in the "spiegel" to the literal question whether he is aware that there are rumors that other lubrications have also been received, including Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulrony and Austrian conservative chief Wolfgang Schüssel? – "Quach," calls writer, "not!" But you don't care! They suspect here under the protection of immunity, and I reject it and call on all those who still have a disposition in their heart and do not assume from the outset that the scandalizations of a Peter Pilz are something to support me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12153	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor for the opinion on the subject of the urgent request. We are now entering the debate. No speaker has a speaking time of more than 10 minutes, no fraction longer than 25 minutes. Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12183	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Foreign Minister! It was and is legitimate that individuals belonging to a government group also represent a position that differs from the current legal situation, for example in matters of neutrality. However, it was and is not legitimate for an enforcement body to take steps that are no longer based on the current legal order. You can start any effort to change the legal situation in force. However, what happened – and I have to say unfortunately: with the tolerance of the SPÖ – was an extermination of neutrality beyond and beyond the Austrian constitution and legal order. And that has created a lot of displeasure, and that is exactly what the process has done illegitimately! This erodement of Austrian neutrality began against the text of the Constitution and the laws of 1990 when the provisions on the import, export and transit of war material were loosened at a time when the US bombs had already flown over Austria. During the debate, it would have been punishable, but the government has removed its own criminality for the specific occasion. And it went on that way – I can't list all the steps in detail now – up to the Austrian NATO partnership in 1995, the NATO troupe statue and all that has really happened. This does not only involve the procurement operations that have been identified. And if you think that all of this is transparent and has been done correctly, then you must be the first to clear the way and actively and offensively to ensure that Parliament can get all the documents and take a look at them! But again and again there were certain transactions, for example there are conversations in the couloirs or lists, in which names appear. They say it's not that way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Open it up! Do not pretend that these procurement procedures, of which you probably know much more than some of the others in this House, have nothing to do with the neutrality status! How neutral, then, is a country whose federal army is selling weapons with its head of state, without reference to the entire federal government, as it would have been right if these weapons were then – such a coincidence! – show up in Kosovo? [[Abg. Young: But that has nothing to do with neutrality!]] If you feel that this has nothing to do with neutrality, it reveals so much about your attitude: We sell weapons and we don't know where they land! There is a arms dealer, they are supposedly useless weapons, and - see! – you immediately delivered the matching spare parts! That's what it looked like, and we've always been critical of that! You have also been in person of the partyobmann and Clubobmann's criticism of this sloppy erodement of neutrality, and you have said that you are for NATO accession. [[Abg. Young: Right!]] Okay! I would like to give you the opportunity to express this position openly by submitting a motion for a resolution on the urgent request from the Greens, which refers precisely to this question. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a funny request!]] Mr Scheibner! If you find this "smart" today, you'll obviously be preparing the next neck wind. But this will soon be quite dangerous for the air passage! [[Abg. Scheibner: If you already copy our applications, please do it properly!]] I would recommend: Put the government bank in the front, perhaps, in the beginning, because it's easier if you've always turned your head that way! I will then make these documents available to you. Then you can read how and when you have pleaded for it. ==References====External links== June 1999: "The people shall decide." ==References== ==References== The statements came and come in sequence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Then let the people decide! Now again to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Cancellor and Foreign Minister. I told you at the beginning: I have always thought it legitimate to have a different opinion. However, you should have led the execution of the resort on the basis of existing laws. That is why I think it is really inappropriate for you and your position if you also go to the level of a polemic that is really amazing. And you know what you're talking about, that didn't just happen to you! [[Abg. Young: Who did that at the time?]] Do you think Mr. Foreign Minister needs you as a advocate all the time? Apparently your position seems to be on very tone feet! Your conscience must be so bad that you can apparently only fall into these persistent derailments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] Foreign Minister! They have called the position of Peter Pilz inconsistency. – I claim to raise you Your accusations in a conscious, false polemic, because you know very well where the differences are located, and precisely these you didn't want to see true. It's not about neutrality looking away. Neutrality has always meant taking the party for the victims, but on all sides! [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is a comic concept of neutrality!]] Mr Scheibner! All the theoretical foundations seem to be lost to you at once among the new government desires. Foreign Minister! Mr. Klubobmann! Something else is clear: It makes a big difference whether an international mission has been commissioned by the UN or whether it takes place within the framework of a military pact, which is not even a European military pact and part of a European system, but a North Atlantic pact under American hegemony, as far as NATO is concerned. That's what it's all about! It is not only being prepared for the destruction or non-state of its own European line, but it will create a block of the rich states of the West and the North under the leadership of America. Thus, there is a relapse in times like those of the Vietnam War and the confrontation with a world politician, some somewhat more powerful vassals and some totally insignificant states. To the latter, you made us! Because the role of a neutral small state can be a very courageous one. There is a high risk of intervening between the potential fronts prior to the outbreak of a conflict or of providing humanitarian assistance to the victims on all sides. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] But those who combine themselves with arms dealers and those who mix NATO and UN also seem to be losing the measure of such non-essential differences, Mrs Bauer, too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means – as if you didn't know! – that own jurisdictions are created here. The population of Cavalese can sing a song of what is going on when the national jurisdiction no longer applies, but when it is judged by potential perpetrators somewhere in America according to its own laws. The question of non-existent transparency in terms of costs also makes a big difference. Deputies! Foreign Minister! I have also heard Members who believe that there can be so massive human rights threats that there may be a need for a defensive use of violence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] You can't imagine that with your aggressive ideas! I can imagine that such a thing is possible. But exactly then it is absolutely necessary that such a thing be carried out on the basis of the community of states! It is also necessary that in certain conflicts States that are historically burdened should not be used in any way. [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In addition, you have not even tried to bring Austrian neutrality to the agenda as an important and highly specialised tool within the framework of a European security and peace concept! If you seriously believe that beyond all political differences, which are legitimate, there must be at least clarity, then you cannot fail the request for a popular decision!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12356	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I would ask you to clarify a question to me. Two texts are now available on the topic of conducting a popular survey. One calls for the immediate conduct of a People's Survey, and the other calls for waiting for the outcome of a previous public survey. I consider the request for a popular survey to be carried out immediately as the more frequent. It is therefore agreed on this first. In the event that this request does not find a majority, the second request that the outcome of a previous public survey be expected would be voted. – This question has been clarified. Mr Kostelka has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12383	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The attitude of social democracy on the question of neutrality has remained unchanged for years and decades: We are behind this neutrality law, and we will support this neutrality law. And I can only advise everyone, on behalf of Austria, on an international stage, within the framework of the European Union or anywhere in Austria, to stick to it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say in all serenity: An Austrian government representative, a foreign minister, a defense minister will also have to remember in Nice that the Federal Constitutional Act on the Neutrality of Austria of 26 October 1955 is also to be observed in Nice. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Also a Federal Chancellor!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Steindl.]] I now advise you, Mr Vice-chancler, to take very seriously in this context the EU participation rights of the National Council's main committee very seriously. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unlike so far!]] I call on you to vote in favour of these positions, which you will be represented in Nice or wherever you are, in particular, with the main committee of the National Council, where constitutional provisions are contained in these possible Treaties. You will need our consent, and you will only get it if we consider it to be in the interests of Austria and its future. I tell you without drama, but in all my determination: We assume and are firmly convinced that an infringement or impairment of the neutrality of Austria does not come into question. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many times have you hurt them yourself?]] In this context, we will not, under any conditions, agree to a contract on this subject, whatever the side effects. That is why I ask you to declare in Nice or wherever you want to declare that you cannot agree to a contract that calls into question Austrian neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may already be – and the green proposal has made it quite clear – that there is a future perspective of a European security system, as the Greens call it. In this respect, we will also have to consider whether, after the implementation of a European currency, a European police force and a European judicial system, there could also be a Europeanisation of national defence. This would mean, as the last step, that there are no armies in this Europe with which these 15 states, or whatever many, can wage war against one another. We have declared our solidarity with this, and then we will also have to hold this discussion. However, it is not possible – and we have made this clear in the negotiations on a government – to join NATO, and it will not come that far in the future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Your request contains a lot of reasonable things, for example, the finding that it is a positive, independent contribution from Austria to the peace of standing to this neutrality and active neutrality. It is also noted that the introduction of neutrality is also a useful project with regard to the enlargement of the European Union and that it is ultimately our special obligation to seek humanitarian aid and assistance in the development of democracy and the social state. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, we cannot accept the final point of your request, namely the indication that a public survey has to take place. Because I have to tell you in the light of what I have said before that we are not available to place neutrality in any form at the disposal. It is an applicable constitutional law. And just as we, for example, do not hold a public poll on the General Social Security Act or on other matters, and I do not think we can ask the people again and again before every Intergovernmental Conference whether they are still neutral. I am convinced with you that neutrality finds a deep hold on the Austrian population, and something that is as clear as the support of neutrality by the Austrian population can basically only be relativized by such a population survey. Ladies and gentlemen! In the coming weeks, months and years – and I invite the Greens to contribute their 14 to our 65 votes – we will closely monitor whether this neutrality is restricted or eliminated by cold means. [[Abg. Young: Tempura mutantur!]] We will listen carefully – and you can now expect questions about this – whether or not Federal Minister Fassleven to talk about what he has already done in the past, namely at defence ministerial meetings, as if he were a NATO minister, will continue to operate in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, we will certainly intervene if a violation of the Neutrality Act is in place. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also point out in this context the need for this discussion. At the Cologne Summit, German Chancellor Klima has explicitly made sure that what you claim is included in the Cologne decision. In the relevant closing papers, it is said on behalf of the European Union: "We want to develop effective EU-led crisis management, in which both NATO members and neutral and alliance-free EU Member States can participate fully and equally in EU operations." That is our position, and I do not think that there is a need for further determination. Please allow me to make the following comment: Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, please do not regard this as a pretension! Take a look at Article 49b of the Federal Constitution. In fact, this includes the rules on public surveys. There it is regulated that either five Members in the National Council's main committee – and five Members you have in total – or the Federal Government can make a request to hold a People's Survey. . I do not think much of this political billiard to make a request to the Federal Government to do so in the National Council's main committee, which could be done by itself and, if necessary, to vote in the next week or this week. A final remark to two Members in this House, to Mrs Pecher and Mrs Brinek: I suppose I can say goodbye to you, and I do this. You have declared before the elections and after the elections that you will not be a member of the National Council in the event of a free and black government. Women, so is my experience, are usually consistent. I therefore assume that this was your last meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12487	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12508	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! Why so resignative? You wanted it like that, Mr Kostelka! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Why?]] They wanted you to have only one option in the form of a government. This option has not worked. Now you're where you sat down. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Kostelka, only you are responsible – and nobody else! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a bit bizarre, what we have here today: a urgent request for a very important topic – it's a very important topic, we've already discussed it a few times, about Austrian security policy, about neutrality – but if you read it through, you can see that it's a little dreary. I expected that perhaps more will come to mind in the explanatory statement – but then Mr Pilz did not even have material for 20 minutes of speaking time on this subject. So much is not likely to have been involved in this important matter. If Mrs Petrovic comes and defines neutrality with "defensive violence", I would be interested in what "defensive violence" means for you. A self-directed violence, or whatever? There is a contradiction somewhere, ladies and gentlemen. With colleagues Kostelka, we have today, as so often, waited in vain for a definition of neutrality which is so defended here. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Read the Neutrality Act! It's right there!]] Mr Kostelka, it also does not define neutrality – you know it very well – but it is only a commitment to neutrality. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You want to define it, that's it!]] We don't need to redefine anything. You know exactly how neutrality is defined and to what neutrality Austria has known in 1955, Mr Kostelka, namely to a neutrality according to the model of Switzerland. Switzerland had clearly defined a year before what it itself understood as the instrument of permanent neutrality, and defined the conditions. The conditions were: no transit of war material, no overflight permits, no participation in international organisations that provide collective security measures, therefore consistently no UN membership of Switzerland, therefore also consistently no EU membership of Switzerland. This was part of the conditions: not only military neutrality, but also political neutrality as well as economic neutrality. This is what Switzerland has defined for its own neutrality, which we have taken as an example, ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the history of Austrian neutrality, then one becomes clear, we have not for a moment fulfilled the conditions of this international neutrality. You have to say that clearly. It was obvious that at the time one saw neutrality as a means for the purpose – as it is also stated in our federal constitution – because it was the purpose to free Austria from the occupation powers, to obtain the state treaty and full independence. That is why it was also an important step that was taken at the time. But he was not quite voluntary – you know that too, Mr Kostelka! Already in the Moscow Memorandum, it had been the condition of the Soviet Union that Austria committed itself to this status of neutrality. But then it was a right decision, that's not a question. Germany was faced with the same decision, because the Soviet Union had also offered Germany to allow the withdrawal of the occupation power and an undivided Germany if Germany also professed to this continuing neutrality. Another decision was made at the time. Perhaps, if one had known that it would take many decades for one to reunite Germany, then Germany would have decided differently. But we must finally take note today, ladies and gentlemen, that, with the collapse of the Warsaw Pact and with the collapse of the two blocks, a different situation has occurred for Austria too, that neutrality has never been self-evident and it must not be today, but a security policy instrument can only have one purpose: to ensure the security and independence of the country itself. It is hoped that we agree that it was not the neutrality of Austria, which Austria has protected over the past 40 years, even 50 years from war and threat, but it was the "equal weight of terror" between NATO and Warsaw Pact, which has not allowed a threat to Austria, since every small conflict, every national conflict, would have been immediately this great world war. However, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kostelka, Mr Pilz, we know today the progress plans of the Warsaw Pact in the event of such a conflict. No human would have observed neutrality, no one would have cared if Austria had this status! But that's not a problem for you. The pictures are still in our memory, which show how you, together with Mayor Häupl, kicked the Colchosen farmers in the former Soviet Union in young years. Those were just your thoughts, those were your pictures you had, and your ideals. Even today, ten years after the breakdown of your ideal image, follow these things up and see the Western Defence Alliance – which we owe a lot to you, Mr. Pilz! – still as an enemy image. Mr Kostelka! If you say again today that we will defend neutrality, I wonder what neutrality? – Again: They have violated all the principles of permanent neutrality by accession to the European Union at the latest. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we are also in favour of a People's Survey if, for example, what we are hoping for will be done within the framework of the European Union to take over a guarantee of assistance – I do not say "obligation". [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Before or after? That's the question!]] Of course before, Mrs Colleague, that is logical! Before it comes to that, one should involve the population. I tell you why: because before joining the EU, people have not been told the truth, because they have previously said that we, as a neutral state, can enter the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, right!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We all knew that this was the untruth – of course, because the European Union, since the Maastricht Treaty, now developed in the Treaty of Amsterdam, has clearly established the objective of a common defence policy, a common security policy since the Cologne decisions. But this is not even to be reconciled with a slightest core of some neutrality. However, I say it very clearly here again: We acknowledge that security can only be organised jointly in the future. There is no longer a conflict in Europe today, and probably not in the world, which does not have at least a indirect impact on Austria. That is why we have the interest to take part in it and, ultimately, to be able to use the guarantee of the other States for our security. But what are we doing now? We are in the process of exercising solidarity everywhere. We're not a board driver, as this is often suggested here, by no means! We participate everywhere, in every foreign commitment, at KFOR, at SFOR, we are in it everywhere – no problem with neutrality! They also decide everything with: Amsterdamer contract – battle for peacekeeping, interesting! Cologne's decisions, the transfer of the Western European Union, a military pact, to the European Union – no problem, everything will be decided! Only here in Austria is argued differently. There it is suddenly abused even as an election topic – I say it. To misuse the fears of the population from war and uncertainty to get voters, that is really the last class, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As I said, We take care of the commitments everywhere. But when it comes to being able to decide whether or not to take part in an Austrian position, and when it comes to getting Austria under the protection of the State community, say: It's all of a sudden: No, no, no, That's about like when I go to an insurance and say: I pay the insurance premium, yes, I pay the double insurance premium, but I don't want to see the insurance contract at all, and I don't want a guarantee at all. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Nice contract!]] At present, the security policy of Austria is represented. That's where the Sweden is ashamed. Where are the neutral states, ladies and gentlemen? The Swedish have already said that they are alliance-free and not neutral. The Finns have already said that they are alliance-free and not neutral because neutrality is a product of the Cold War. Switzerland... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Both have said they are not going to NATO!]] Not at the moment – no problem! But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schieder, Switzerland has shamed us – and you know it – because it has requested the Associated Status in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly before us, at a time when we had been discussing for four years whether it is really possible to align Austrian status with the status of Albania and Bulgaria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Good, but they won't be so strong at it!]] Mr Schieder, that is the contradiction! If we discuss whether we allow foreign soldiers to pass through Austria because they want to go to an evacuation exercise, and that is then refused, but the same soldiers are naturally brought to Austria when it comes to evacuate the population in Galtür, because the Austrian federal army is not able to do so, then it is reckless and embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Young: 4,000 soldiers!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If it is true, Mr Schieder – I have already told you – and we will follow this up – that even this action in Galtür has been made a question of neutrality, because it allowed NATO helicopters to go to Austria, and that this effort has been delayed for hours, ladies and gentlemen, you should consider what you are responsible for! Ladies and gentlemen, once again: We are in favour of openly and honestly considering and discussing the security policy of Austria and of involving the population in these processes. But I'm telling you quite frankly: We do not need any green advice. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We are on the ground of the Constitution – Article 23f, Mr Schieder, says everything, that we are full of it. But at last we want an honest policy and not the abuse of security policy for any electoral measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12695	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12716	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We discussed the subject of security policy very controversially during the last Leigislatur period, but we were all involved in putting the security of Austria at the centre. Today, for the first time, personal diffamations and assumptions are being worked on. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not worthy of a foreign and security policy – and I think it is a debate in the House in general. On behalf of my group, I clearly oppose it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In particular, foreign and security policy must always be carried by a broad majority in this country, because it concerns fundamental issues of the state that we also have to decide. When I read the urgent request of the Greens, I feel a certain longing for good old times of the seventies and eighties, when you saw in the middle role of Austria in the Cold War, in which active neutrality policy has a special starting point of Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: After better new times, the longing is for better new times!]] It's legitimate for you to see it that way. Your peace movement, which you also initiated, was particularly active at the time. I am less fond of remembering these times, because in the 1970s and 1980s our neighbors suffered from a rule of violence and had to live personally in injustice, ladies and gentlemen, and because we, as Austrians, were forced between two military blocks and every kind of confrontation in Europe had led us into a passion that we all do not want to imagine. That is why, I believe, a restoration of this neutrality policy from then on to the present day is neither meaningful nor necessary. I mean, we can all be glad that we are living in a year 2000 in which there is freedom on this continent and where integration is facing a confrontation. At least we are very pleased that this development has taken place. Now we are facing a certain setback, and the Greens are trying to show us a way in which this old neutrality policy – I would almost say: the neutrality of 1955, then a response to the confrontation between East and West – is revived. They give us funds here that I cannot recognize as such. When you talk about it, ladies and gentlemen, that you should choose a "defensive use of violence", that shows what contradiction this is in itself. Or if you read your request to the end and see that you propose the consequences on the first point, the Foreign Minister should work to ensure that we enter into an alliance with the free of alliances in the future – ladies and gentlemen, that has not yet been invented! I see no perspective for us either that we should move in this direction. On the contrary: I am afraid that this change will bring us closer to a prellbock, where we, as Austrians, should approach within a European Union. I cannot see this as a perspective, not even as an approach to an Austrian security policy. The other way we can go is one where we think ahead and deal with what is happening around us and how we can further develop our current security concept. This means that in a Europe where there is an action programme, which includes a single market and which will have a single currency in the future, one is also taking a next step, saying: As much as we work together, we also need to protect each other, so take a step towards a common security policy by one standing on the other and saying: We will call every attack on one of them an attack on us and behave afterwards. This common defence policy as the next step of a European Union has already adopted some very concrete facets. In the Treaty of Amsterdam, "Petersberger Behörde" has now also become tasks of the European Union. The common foreign and security policy of the European Union now has a human face, Mr Solana, who has already received recognition in his previous activity. Unfortunately, we have had to face the conflict in Kosovo last year, but we have also been able to accompany a consistent attitude by the European Union in response to a war ahead of the European Union – successfully, as I believe. The next cornerstones are on, and of course we need to discuss them. It is also a question of defining this relationship in the Community. It is about defining the contributions of the individual members of the European Union in terms of both human and financial terms. It is also about developing an idea of a possible division of work. But, ladies and gentlemen, for us in Austria, this means, of course, that we are taking our dimension of Austrian security policy one step forward. That is to say, a further development of the Austrian neutrality policy, away from the neutrality we had in 1955, towards a new neutrality, which can probably be transferred to a larger community in its purpose – as defined in the Neutrality Act. Because if you read about the purpose of the Federal Law on Persistent Neutrality, you will see why they have been raised in the constitutional rank at all: We have explained this neutrality for the sake of the constant claim of our external independence and for the purpose of the inviolability of our territory. If we look at the development in the European Union today and see that the borders with our Member States no longer exist de facto, we have freedom of travel, a cooperation which actually has few borders with our neighbours within this Union, then a consistent development means that the area that was then meant in this frontal position of East and West is likely to be an area of the European Union today. I think that this is also the real meaning that the Austrians have seen in this so-called neutrality policy, and it will continue to be preserved in the future. A second point that is important to us is, of course, that we are trying to bring about a broad political consensus on this issue of principle. I invite all the political groups to do so. I think it is necessary to bring about such a broad political consensus on such an important matter of foreign and security policy, which will all of us face up to new decisions, through many in-depth discussions. The third point, of course, is that we have in mind the continuity of our own security policy. I therefore also appeal to the Social Democrats that the security reason cannot be stopped by the Helsinki Summit, because one no longer belongs to a government, but that one continues to follow this path consistently, saying: We are opening up to a European security system, we are supporting this solidarity, which is to be enshrined in the basic idea of such a European security system, and we are developing a way in which we can approach the step by step in many discussions. My conlusio: The stoning of the neutrality of 1955 will not bring us forward. What will move us forward is a new quality of integration and not isolation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12765	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12786	Mr President. Minister! High house! Finally, my previous speaker, Mr Spindelegger, has just said something very correct, namely that it is not a question of petrifying neutrality. I hope you don't actually believe we want to. The neutrality of 1955 is one that is enshrined in our constitution and that is where it is to remain. But it is very clear to us that today, after a cold war, it needs a redefinition of this neutrality. That is also what our request contains. It is about saying today what we can do in the context of conflict prevention, in the area of what is necessary to be able to intervene in time – before there is any conflict at all – and to do something in time at the political, diplomatic level. But there have been great opportunities in recent years. To come to the request in detail now: The people's survey on the neutrality we are calling for here today is therefore calling for it, because it is ours at the present time. The state of our Republic seems necessary to require political will-building also of this House, of this Austrian Parliament, of this Austrian People's Office. Because many say that we no longer need neutrality, and it means: We have the EU or the WEU, NATO, the Partnership for Peace, and we will have a common foreign and security policy of the European Union. I thought of it. This common foreign and security policy is called CFSP. Those of you who understand English know that if you say "gasp", that means something like this: It remains open to one's mouth, you're not getting any more air, and you don't know how it goes. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Only, the English abbreviation is another! That's the German abbreviation!]] I know, my colleague, that's clear. But we use this word, and a lot of people with us understand English, so that's why I thought of it. That is exactly what is happening in the Austrian population. She watches, and she remains open to her mouth when she sees what happened to this neutrality in the last few years in the form of a salami tactic. Now, here and today, we want a political expression of will in this House. Because it's not enough for us, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka – he's, I think, just not there; or anyway; well – if you say: They appeal that the Austrian Federal Government in Nice will do exactly what the Austrian Constitution says... and so on. This appeal is too little for us in a situation where we do not have a federal government, nor do we know whether, when this EU government conference will begin in a month, in February, we will already have a government. We do not know that, perhaps you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Schüssel, will have to represent there as still acting Foreign Minister. Today, we Greens want a decision by this Parliament to do so, because the current government has to do something. It is about introducing Austrian neutrality as an instrument of peacekeeping in Europe and worldwide at this Intergovernmental Conference, but not as it has unfortunately been done in recent years when so many opportunities have been denied to redefine this neutrality, and instead it has always been said: We must go to the WEU, to NATO, there we are well removed, we must not stand out there. Neutrality does not mean to stand out and think: What if the others send the people to war! I don't think I need to tell you that. Neutrality means, as it is now recognized in private conflicts – mediation in a divorce procedure is something that everyone recognises nowadays – that neutrality in a modern definition, Mr. Colleague, means very well also to convey the function of neutrals who intervene in a conflict in time for it not to be powerful. [[Abg. Young: You don't know international law! Neutrality means staying out of conflict – under international law!]] [[Abg. Young: This is your variant!]] That should be it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: What should be is your idea!]] Once again to the position that was announced by the SPÖ. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka said that you do not want a popular survey now because it would only relativize neutrality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] This is a different opinion, because we believe that the population is now experiencing great dissatisfaction with what is happening. [[Abg. Scheibner: Tell us at least what neutrality is!]] Yeah, you'll be right there, you're next. – The agreement, which has been a coalition agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP until a few days ago, already contains things that are not compatible with neutrality, such as participation in an EU military force, European arms cooperation et cetera. These are things that the population does not understand as neutrality, and we would like to have voted on that. Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Scheibner: What do you mean by neutrality?]] You've said, and your party leader has also said that... [[Abg. Scheibner: Please tell us what you mean by neutrality!]] Please let me speak; You were already on it, now I'm on it. You have said that you are very likely for a popular decision to assist et cetera. Is that so? Do you really want that? Are you for that? [[Abg. Scheibner: You didn't listen to me!]] I ask you again: Do you really agree with that? – I am very glad to hear that. I also hope that you will then agree to our request made today. [[Abg. Scheibner: We don't need the funny request if you don't even know what neutrality is!]] I think I know very well. To conclude... [[Abg. Scheibner: Then say it!]] - I explained this before. Foreign Minister! I would like to refer once again to your opinion, in which you said that our request does not even include the OSCE. It is a question of neutrality, of a vote which we are calling for here and of a People's Survey that we are calling for. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] It is quite clear – we discussed it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in other cases last week – that we were very well and always the OSCE was an important concern. The problem we are currently seeing is that, due to your commitment to the internal negotiations, your proposals on what is to be done in the framework of the OSCE and in the framework of the OSCE Presidency are unfortunately not very concrete. Missing: What exactly happens to Chechnya? What are you doing about Central Asia? What about the Stability Pact in Kosovo? The cost of the donor conference in Sarajevo has not even been financed. With regard to these questions, I would have expected an Austrian OSCE Presidency to make timely proposals. Unfortunately, however, you did not present them. Another point, even because you said you were doing everything you could to ensure that Austria is integrated into a common security system. In our opinion, what has been done in recent years in particular by the EIA, but partly also by the SPÖ: With regard to an independent Austrian contribution, it is necessary to say that SPÖ Chancellor Kreisky recognized and acted after this in the 1970s – not only to look at Europe, but also to view the world as a whole and to negotiate in time, for example as he did in the field of Israel – Palestine. These are things I would expect from an Austrian neutrality policy. But such a one is not made! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To conclude, just one more point: It was one of their predecessors as party leader of the ÖVP, it was Mr. Dr. Schleinzer, who in the 1960s, when it came to defining the Austrian National Day, insisted that the Austrian National Day, the State Day, was the day of the decision on neutrality. I would very much like that, in this case, the ÖVP would also call upon one of its predecessors to call for it and to vote in favour of a popular survey, a referendum on neutrality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e12976	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13000	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, what I like about this proposal. In this proposal, it has really succeeded – and this will be seen with the term "real European security system" xxx. means to represent what the pillars of a security system should be within the framework of the EU, namely an EU security system that is committed to international law, which is subject to the UN's monopoly of violence, which waives all weapons of mass destruction, which gives priority to conflict prevention, which contributes to disarmament and which is not understood as a tool of the great powers, which not only creates an area of security but also peace. That is a goal that is all right, in which we all find ourselves, and I would like to thank you for this beautiful formulation, because it expresses everything very clearly. What I do not like about this request is that it is meant – and this is the central point of the request – that we should find in a public voting procedure that neutrality, i.e. a constitutional law, is still valid. But there's a lot of stuff in me! We Socialists have always been and are still in favour of making significant changes in the Austrian foreign and security policy subject to a referendum. We have represented this in the government negotiations and will continue to insist on it. But such a referendum should not come until changes are planned. [[Abg. Oillinger: So first sign the contracts and then...!]] No, my colleague! But it would be terrible if one said that the people should vote on whether or not the Constitution applies. This is true of the neighbor with regard to federalism, and so on and so on. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, what do the Lord's bowl mean?]] How often, then, will we vote on whether or not the Constitution will continue to apply? - No! What is in the Constitution applies to what has been passed by constitutional laws, such as the Neutrality Act, and that will still be important! [[Abg. Scheibner: And the article 23f?]] The government and everyone have to stick to it. [[Abg. Oillinger: Does this apply to Mr. Schüssel?]] And if someone wants to change it, he needs the necessary majority in Parliament. We say – and we are pleased when you join us – that, in such a change, the people must be questioned, without it, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: What about 23f?]] Secondly, Two speakers from your group have briefly suggested that we would have 'donated' or hollowed out the neutrality of the agreements reached during the government negotiations. I could just make it and say – and that would be true – in agreements where compromises are made, you always have to swallow a lot, which is not your own food. [[Abg. Scheibner: You're swallowing what you don't like!]] But I do not want to make it that easy, but rather to point out that what was discussed in the negotiations contained something very positive: to try to establish a system that you too wanted, i.e. a security system within the European Union. This is different from assistance obligations to EU countries, Minister of State. This is different from military pacts and their commitments. If Brussels were to be attacked, we would not help with such a commitment because we are in a military pact, not even because we support Belgium and Belgium, but because the idea behind it – including your modified Voggenhuber concept three years ago – is that the Union is developing so much that it has a common currency that it has a common police force and that one day an attack on Brussels is an attack on the whole EU. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is no longer neutral!]] This is then a much wider question. But I'm still coming to talk. [[Abg. Young: That's another story!]] Let me carry this out, colleague. An attack on Brussels will therefore not be the solidarity of Austria, not Austria's commitment to aid Belgium, nor will it trigger those in a military pact, but an attack on part of the whole will be an attack on the whole, not by pact, but by EU law. [[Abg. Young: This is the essence of the alliance!]] That's the consideration. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And don't say that's a pact. [[Abg. Young: What else?]] A pact is much more, you know that too! In the NATO Pact there is not just an attack on the territory of a state. [[Abg. Scheibner: What is a pact? This is a contract, Mr President.]] You know it very well, there are points in it! And when an American pilot is attacked north of the turning circle of cancer or somewhere else in the world – not the territory, not the United States, but just a plane, a ship! Then all the help has to be provided. [[Abg. Boy: That's not true at all!]] That's the NATO deal! [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm disappointed!]] We are concerned with developing a system within the EU. However, we all know that this is not very likely. We all know that there must be an agreement between all, and this will not be so easy to find. [[Abg. Young: I wouldn't have trusted you!]] Mr Commissioner, it is quite clear that a system of security within the EU is very different from a military pact. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But we don't want a military pact! And these are the main differences. They also said that in 1955 this was done according to the model of Switzerland and so on. Both that and what you have said about neutrality are not true! In 1955 one understood neutrality as what is now called the core area of neutrality. In the negotiations on neutrality – read this at Stourzh, xxx o.k. "History of the State Treaty 1945 – 1955" xxx o.k. from the second edition and in the parliamentary materials – it was defined as follows: no participation in wars, no foreign troops in their own country and no participation in a military pact! [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Disc]] That was synonymous with neutrality in the negotiations! And the model Switzerland, the Swiss model, did not mean to read what you said, Mr. Colleague, but according to the example of Switzerland – this is at Stourzh and in the documents of Dulles, which are listed in the annex to Stourzh – that neutrality is a freely chosen and not imposed. Thus, the term "model of Switzerland" does not describe the way in which it is to be carried out, but the way in which it was created, namely that a country chooses it, it is not imposed on a country. [[Abg. Scheibner: You should take the original documents, not the interpretation!]] – If you already have difficulties with neutrality in its present form, make sure you don't have problems with your story too, gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: I'll give you the original documents!]] It's clear to us: Social democracy was in its history, was in the government negotiations, and is also now in favour of the fact that there is no accession to a military alliance, no accession to NATO, and that neutrality remains! But if the world or Europe once behaves like a neutral, then our neutrality will have lost its sense. But that's a good day for us!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13285	The next speaker is Mr Jung. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13306	Mr President. Mr Schieder, I have been very disappointed by you now. You are otherwise really a profound expert on matters that you are talking about, but now you have quoted Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, and you know very well – I can't imagine you don't know – that there is no automatic assistance in NATO in the sense of how you just presented it – quite contrary to the WEU Treaty! - Just like that! [[Abg. Arbitrators: But the commitment!]] The automatic would be an obligation, but unfortunately there is no obligation in this form! Therefore, the WEU sector would also offer greater security to smaller countries. You know that very well, Mr. Schieder. I was less upset, but I was concerned about my colleague Pilz, whom his own subject has already begun to be boring, because he seems to be. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Just for your speech!]] He was very quiet in this high house lately. I've already believed he's changed. But after the performance he delivered today, one sees that he struggles hard for the position of the decker in the club, which is now being disputed by two others. We will probably still experience some of these ideas here in the House in this way in the near future. Mr Pilz! In connection with the Yugoslavia war, they called for military intervention, a legitimate request from me, which also the German Green Joschka Fischer – only in a slightly sharper form, because he was at all the same for bombarding! – has raised. Today you say: You think some tanks have changed something? – Now I ask Mr President, I would like to thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office of Have you changed your mind so quickly, a higher insight has come upon you, has the dove of the Holy Spirit sunk down upon you with enlightenment? Or do you just not know what you want? They say this once, once that – which is more appropriate for the argumentation outside or here in the House. But I do not want to leave the responsibility for Austrian security policy to anyone who jumps this way in the argument. The same applies to Mrs Petrovic with her classic words from – how did she say? – "defensive use of violence". – Mrs Petrovic – ah, she is no longer present – what is defensive violence? Do you know what that is? – This is self-mutilation! Do you think self-mutilation can be the goal of Austrian security policy? That's just ridiculous and nothing else! – Yes, I am a professional soldier, right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: You're a military?]] For the approval of SPÖ. Mr Schieder, you have rightly pointed out that, in order to achieve a fundamental change in this matter, the consent of the SPÖ will be required. It also shows a certain change in SPÖ – at least in the leading SPÖ heads so far – as a result of the change in the environment. We shall endeavour in this direction to reach your agreement, we shall certainly not take any illegal measures here in this House, because that would not be in line with our line! However, this has been done by the ÖVP – probably with the best intention – with your help, the neutrality is already very eroded and almost mutilated to the inconsistency. That is why I give the green right. That is why we, which we no longer consider to be particularly useful, have not resisted. The whole thing will not be easy, especially because, among other things, some old-eighty-eight people in this House are still wandering, who cannot forget their Cuba and Moscow journeys. And you, Mr Pilz, and your friends who have kissed the "holy" earth of Mother Russia at a time when this Russia has still mounted march plans against our Republic of Austria, you are the worst representative of an Austrian security policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this sense, I do not understand the SPÖ's aversion to a common defense, because the common defence is less in the interests of the Strong One who could defend himself, but the common, collective defence is in the interests of the weak, who joins with other weak ones in order to be strong together. That is why common defence is what we should strive for first and foremost. The other objectives, such as the creation of security in advance, only become important in the second place. And finally, a word on neutrality and the referendum or on the popular survey – whatever you are now looking for. You will not turn us away from that, but unlike you, we do not want a referendum as soon as possible. We are in favour of it, however, only after a sufficient information to the population, which has so far been misled across this whole area, because it has been said that neutrality itself and without any military service provides self-security. [[Abg. Oils: Aha!]] Unlike you, we don't want propaganda, we don't want words like you delivered them. We want a proper information for the Austrian population, and we will achieve that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13409	The next speaker is Mr Günther Platter. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13433	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that our Vice-Cchanc Wolfgang Schüssel and our foreign-political spokesman Michael Spindelegger have pointed out the changes that have occurred in security policy in Austria, but also in Europe. These changes must be answered clearly! We have – and we have to say this – taken a European path together with the Social Democrats in the field of foreign and security policy. I recall the decisions taken by Amsterdam, Helsinki, Cologne and the like. We have also taken a common path with German Chancellor Climate. We now have to continue this European path consistently. Mr Arbitrator, I would like to tell you that some things have already been agreed: The Federal Government will work to ensure that a guarantee of assistance between EU countries is incorporated into the EU legal system and is also effective for Austria. In word, Article V of the WEU Treaty states that, in the event of an armed attack on one Member State, "in accordance with the provisions of Article 51 of the Statute of the United Nations, all military and other assistance and support in its power shall be provided." - Quote. xxx Quote cf. You've got to stick to the facts you've been negotiating. Well, ladies and gentlemen, back to neutrality. We all, the Social Democrats, the Liberals, the Austrian People's Party and, as I believe, the Greens, of course, know that neutrality no longer has the importance of having it from 1955 to the 1970s and 1980s. We all know that! But you don't want to tell the citizen because it's not particularly popular. At this point, I would like to focus very briefly on the public's sensitivity to neutrality. If you listen to people, it is obvious that the neutrality of the majority of the population in Austria has undoubtedly grown to the heart. In discussions on the Constitution, it is said to be "the constant neutrality"; it has truly grown to the heart of the Austrian. While I also believe that this neutrality cannot be taken out of the heart of the Austrians, it is – and this seems very essential to me – our duty to inform the people about what makes the highest level of security, freedom and justice necessary in our country. That's what we've got to do! What is required of Parliament and the political leaders in this sensitive and extremely important issue of foreign and security policy? – Whoever has a responsible policy – not populist politics, such a policy has lost nothing at all in foreign and security policy! The first is to put the facts on the table – that is to say, to point out changes – the second is to provide a clear path – in this case the European Security Union – with which the highest degree of freedom, peace and security is guaranteed in our country, and to the third – and that is very important to me – the citizens must convince of this course, a course aimed at solidarity, at European solidarity in peacekeeping. In view of the fact that, as Vice Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has said several times, there have been four wars in the Balkans in the last ten years – Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Kosovo – in other words, wars in our neighborhood where people were killed, children, women and men were abused, I am glad that solidarity was exercised and helped. ==References== I had the opportunity to go to Kosovo with Minister Fassleven and Mr Scheibner and Mr Gaál. I was proud of what those 470 Austrian soldiers in Kosovo are doing, as they help the people there who are in the face of the bloody conflict. Ladies and gentlemen! That is living solidarity! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to today's urgent question. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I have no problem at all with this question, I hold it – on the contrary! It is important to discuss security policy, foreign policy and peace in our country. But one of Mr Van der Bellen's colleagues, I do not understand that Dr Pilz's only reason for this question is that a man who in 1994 called the young people to break the constitution, saying that they should refuse the orders given to them. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That was great!]] Consequently, the appearance of this question today is undoubtedly a bad one. Next point. I quote from the issue of the "Standard" of 14. February 1994, it was about EU accession and the Balkan War. "The standard" asks Dr. Pilz – I quote –: There will be "requests for overflying permits also in the case of Bosnia". "How will you solve this question?" – Answer Pilz: "I can't speak for the Greens, but I'm sure the government will give it approval. I – Pilz – "will not speak against it." - Quote. xxx all quotations. ==References====External links== ==References== It says – I quote – that: "Pilz calls for a change in the Austrian Yugoslavia policy." Further: "Pilz once again called for the UN's military intervention to protect the civilian population in Bosnia-Herzegovina. There is no alternative to, as far as possible, small military measures.’” – Quotes. xxx all quotations. [[Abg. Boy: And he's talking about "Wendhalsen"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The look is undoubtedly very wrong. – Mr Van der Bellen! Professor! Next time, take another one to justify such a request! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But we do that ourselves!]] Finally, one very important point for me. I very much appreciate the security course of Vice-Chancellor and Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schüssel. The goal of the Wolfgang Key is that war will never again come again. No more war, so that never again will happen what people from hatred, envy, unwiseness and pure desire for power have done to other people, so that never again will happen what our fathers and grandfathers, our parents in the First and Second World War had to experience! The way to this objective is, of course, to achieve a European peace work in conjunction with the enlargement of the EU. And Austria has to be internationally predictable on this issue. The ÖVP will be with Wolfgang Schüssel – regardless of whether we are in the government or in opposition, that is not at all the question here! – continue this security policy course, and we will promote broad acceptance of it in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13533	Next speaker is Mrs Inge Jäger. I'll set the clock to 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13558	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this debate to be extremely important in view of the global situation, especially when it comes to drawing lessons from the crisis in the Balkans. In my opinion, however, the debate is being led by the wrong side by both the FPÖ and the EIA in some respects, in so far as it is quite clear that Austria is committed to a common European foreign and security policy. But now, Mr Platter, it is not the mutual duty to assist the current issue at European level or the core of the debate, but it will be discussed how we can find a common language externally, and that common capacities for crisis management will be built up. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] Both in the Cologne Conference and in Helsinki, it has been clearly stated that all States, no matter what their security status, can participate in this common European security and foreign policy. The reasons why we hold this debate in this way are simply domestic policy. You, ÖVP and FPÖ, have long wanted to go to NATO – I have experienced it myself in the last legislative period – for this reason you are holding the debate this way. I am therefore very glad that you have neither a mandate of the population nor a necessary majority here in Parliament for NATO accession. And this will remain so in the next legislative period. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my opinion, it is very important that the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council for the first time set out very comprehensively that the non-military conflict resolution should also be placed at the centre of interest in Europe. In particular, Austria could make a very important contribution to the early recognition of conflicts and to offering negotiations on prevention due to its experience and tradition as a neutral country. We have thus already experienced in the East-West conflict, in the Palestine conflict and in many other areas. We will not be able to overcome the war. The question is only – and we also need to discuss it at European level –: Where do we set the priorities? Do we place them on a further militarization of Europe or in the area of crisis prevention? In this context, it is also about what competences and what financial support we give to the OSCE. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You are currently chairing the OSCE. It is important to strengthen this organization considerably! A second aspect would be the democratization of the UN. And precisely these points, which could lead to a positive development, are mentioned in the Greens' request in some places. I also think it is necessary that we set further emphasis in the field of peace research in Austria. I would like to stress once again that in Schlaining we are an excellent "Study Center for Peace and Conflict Resolution" xxx o.k. have come to peace researchers from all over the world to be trained so that they can make an important contribution to this later. I think we should work much more closely in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13621	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13642	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent request by the Greens is quite interesting to us liberals, but it gives us the opportunity to clarify the change in such an important field of policy as security policy. I would like to admit that there are quite a few small truths in the preamble to your request, especially when it comes to assessing the security policy of the former German government. Meet It's very often the nail on the head. However, we are not of your opinion liberals when it comes to the conclusions, because in the conclusions of this Preamble you are, [[Abg. Oillinger: What a surprise!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, unfortunately God without hope eternally. – I may return this compliment to you once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There are some remarkable mistakes in thinking in it, I can argue with you for a moment. [[Abg. Oils: Please!]] One of them is that you claim that Austria was protected by neutrality after 1955. - That's not true! You, too, know that it was the only one and only one of you who had made the concept of Europe's success possible after the Second World War. They have also acted for a military blow in the context of the conflicts of the past years, and this may not be compatible with your demilitarisation tendency here. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Thirdly, it cannot be that neutrality is only a principle for which we do not deliver. They know as well as we do that we, we take neutrality seriously, need to invest significantly more in our own defence. All of these are contradictions that you can't deny. However, the contradiction in the previous government policy must be noted in the context of this discussion. In recent years, we have had a Minister of Defence and a Foreign Minister, both acting at European and international level, promoting an approach to NATO and showing the way from neutrality to solidarity. I don't make any sense that this path has found my sympathy, I was able to say it in other places. But we also had a SPÖ, especially represented by its German Chancellor Viktor Klima, who has shown a special division in these years. We had a SPÖ head of government who played the solidarity politicians at European level, but once he returned to Austria, he sold neutrality as the basic principle of his policy. However, this schizophrenia, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, has not had a positive effect on the elections for you. The voters didn't honor this. Ladies and gentlemen! A future German government will not only with duties, but also with rights – Mr Scheibner could already argue – for example, the assistance guarantee, into which emerging European security system must lead. A future federal government will also have to redesign the German army: towards a volunteer army with sufficient funding. We have identified this path in recent years, and we are pleased that the two other major parties here in the National Council – and this has been clearly reflected in the election campaign and also in the provisional government pact between SPÖ and ÖVP – have adopted essential principles of freedom in the field of security policy. That is why we liberals are also looking forward to this field of policy, because I believe that Austria will take significant steps forward in the next few years without prejudice to the cooperation of a federal government in security policy. Ladies and gentlemen! I have said that some truths are in the preamble of your application. However, some of the mistakes in the conclusions are serious, and your motives, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are never those of us liberals. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore allow myself to make the following request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13723	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and signed and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Schöggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13748	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have heard a lot of theory in this debate now, and a lot of pathos have also flown in. Let us now return to the goals we have here – and we all have in this House together – to pursue. The goal can only be, for our home, for our citizens, for our families, to enable a life in peace and freedom in the long term! - That's our goal. If you have another one, you have to say it here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This has been done many times with eye twinklers. I have already brought the example from my own federal army when it was told that because of the Czech crisis in Kaiserslautern, NATO aircraft – Phantom – would have already been ready to protect us with a painted Austrian landmark in order to protect us. Later it turned out that this was nothing but a story to weigh us in security and to influence our trust. These stories have continued. Above all, the SPÖ sees neutrality as a shield that you just need to stretch, and we will be protected. But it has become a very shady shield. If you look at the situation in the Austrian federal army, how substantially it was deconsisted almost until the threat of existence, you have to say that it is irresponsible to the soldiers who are currently serving there. We need to do everything we can to improve the equipment for our soldiers who are working for our home country. Ladies and gentlemen! Decisions are coming, we're not going to go on with theories! Let us inform the people correctly without emotionalizing how the SPÖ did it in the EU election campaign at that time! Polemizing, emotionalizing doesn't make sense in this sensitive question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let us ask the people if they are informed. The path that the liberals want to take is clear and that is what we stand for. In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13802	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to The remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is 3 minutes. This is not a voluntary time, but the speaking time resulting from the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13823	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have heard the first words of Professor Van der Bellen this morning when he spoke very faithfully – I have written: We must not continue with the upgrade!, one could assume that the school classes that were sitting there on the top of the gallery, which really believed, sounded so convincing. This also implies an increase of the army budget, which you have put into your words. I can only tell you from my own experience: 35 years ago, when I was pressed, there was no shoes in my size, and when my sons were pressed three and two years ago, they still didn't exist. – Please, hold on, come back to the bottom of the facts! Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger also said that he could only have managed very, very hard to advance the armed forces of the Federal Government with billions of money. To do this, one must say on which legal ground the German army is acting. Is that not the national defense plan – as I believe – of 1975? A national defence plan, which also says about neutrality that it is to be defended, with appropriate means; with appropriate means that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, always want to abstain from the federal army. That's clearly documented! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We also have the majority in this house!]] Mrs Petrovic – the President has said that I am speaking, now I am aware of this – has said: [[Further calls for Greens]] Neutrality has been called to take party for all sides. – Where were you in 1968, when it started in Prague, when, as seen on television, the Mongols passed over the people? Where was the social defence of Mr Pilz, which he now considers to be the abolition of neutrality? Where was he? I would like to address the following. You, Mr Pilz, are not concerned with neutrality – I have participated in x-land defence discussions with you – because, as your request says, it is about civil defence. And this civil defence is not given, I would also like to tell you. If you say we had failed in Bosnia, we would have failed in Kosovo, I have to tell you: It was important to me that we did not fail in Austria. The former head of state of Carinthia is sitting up there, and he will be able to testify: When it started there in 1991 and one cried out for green mandaters, there was no one to see. Therefore, stick to the truth and tell you what neutrality really means to you, then we can continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13873	Mr Pilz is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13903	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since the Mongols succeeded in finally confusing my previous speaker, it has become really realistic for us all the threatening government coalition. Secondly – I really want to make it short –: Assistance obligation. Federal Minister Schüssel! I don't understand something. Germany says it doesn't need any assistance, it needs NATO, UK says it doesn't need any assistance, it needs NATO, Finland says it wants crisis management and no assistance obligation, Ireland and Sweden say they want UN mandates and are explicit against assistance obligations! Why, then, does neutral Austria say, why does our Foreign Minister say: We, especially us and no one else, want a duty of assistance!Unknown term type: "%s".? I can already understand that you need personal assistance, but we certainly don't. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally make a difference in your life between the person Wolfgang Schüssel and the Republic. You often put the Republic at risk enough for your personal purposes. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Secondly, Until Nice and how else, and what does SPÖ have to do? - I don't know. If neutrality is a salami and the SPÖ is a cutting board, then it will continue so. Of course, the knife is someone else, of course the knife leads someone else. But to be satisfied with this cutting board function and to say again and again: It is once again a wheel away, but the rest of the salami is protected!, Again a wheel away, but we stand to the rest of the salami!, is the best way to become the neutrality-political "worstzipfel party". And if you don't want to, you'll have to stop these ladies and gentlemen sometime, just like the gentleman who's still behind me. You have to stop these ladies and gentlemen sometime, and you can only do that through a popular decision that says: Yeah, off, end, neutrality remains! The ÖVP and the FPÖ can put themselves on the head, the majority of the Austrian people have decided clearly! Perhaps the majority of the Austrian population will then also help social democracy back on its feet. Another comment: What does NATO mean? – NATO accession means a huge load of arms, which has been reported by the remaining Minister of Defence in the Committee of the Court of Auditors. A financing of NATO-suitable interception hunters, only interceptors, two seasons, outside the national defence budget, as the SPÖ has signed in the Government Convention, means 15 to 20 billion schilling additional burden under military titles. We shouldn't forget that. And for that, savings packages? And for that, karenz restrictions? Restricting vacation for this? However, Mr Schieder, that will not be an Austrian interception hunter again, for that is not yet the case with Steyr-Daimler-Puch. There will be another solution, it will be a very expensive solution. Please, stand up and say: This happened in a state of complete night! We didn't read it so carefully, it was the little print! We only got the new glasses a week later! Please say that you don't want the new interception hunters and together with us will prevent the money from being thrown out of the window. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A last comment on writers and bowls. This has obviously not happened, but if you read the Schreiber interview in "NEWS", you will find that it is very likely to point to previously unknown contacts by Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel with the arms dealers of the French company Thomson. Writers confirm these contacts and say he will name place and time and everything else exactly. This is an open witness statement that will take place in the next few days. Dr. Schüssel! That writer didn't personally bring you the suitcase, that's not the end of the story. We want some information. They have abstained from the Court of Auditors. You have tolerated – I appreciate this careful expression – that all the essential documents and all the essential witnesses have been abstained from the National Council. But sometime, even if you are now trying out a new majority, sometime there is a majority for this committee of inquiry, and then for the first time you will have the opportunity to explain to us under the obligation of witness what you can not yet explain – with or without a witness obligation. I know the Members of the Freedom Party so well! When it comes to maintaining a rest of reputation and winning elections when Mr. Scheibner and his boss have to choose Haider either to win a choice or to remain faithful to the head of the coalition partner, you will experience that loyalty is not the most important property of your future government partner. But if you have another partner change to save your head again, I dare to doubt the Austrian Party landscape. That's why it would have failed: Help us clarify this in good time in a committee of inquiry! I think it is extremely unlikely that you will escape this clarification by the Austrian National Council. The liberals will at best give you a little break. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13975	As the last speaker, Mr Zernatto has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e13996	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have long considered whether to speak in this debate, and was actually of the opinion that all the essential theoretical questions have already been identified and discussed. With a loyal eyelash, it has been assured by all sides how much the interest of Austria is at the heart of this issue. However, Mr Pilz's statements have just prompted me to question this opinion very much, because, as a last opinion, there should be a call murder here again, that cannot be in the sense of a discussion on Austrian and European security policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not vote for this motion today, and that is why it is not because, above all, the question of public opinion, as it has been put, is as polemic as the Greens and in particular the Pilz have argued. I'll tell you why. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schieder has here in a much more open way and, I must say, very fairly established that there is obviously broad agreement when real security is at the heart of the considerations. When it comes to ensuring the basic need for the Austrians, namely to have the feeling that, once the external security of our country is threatened, the relevant institutions are also at their disposal in order to be able to provide security here, I think that we should bear this agreement together. That is why I have taken the call for a common approach and therefore a continued security policy, as well as the long-term foreign policy, very seriously, and you too should take this appeal seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! It was also a question of predictability, of credibility. I believe that a country like Austria, particularly in the field of foreign and security policy, can only use that credibility and that predictability in the long term if continuity is ensured. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it should be taken very seriously if one considers that the population should also be questioned in these matters. Only then do you have to confront the population with the right questions. Then they must not be held back as this is being tried, conveying the impression that neutrality already means security, confronting this question, but must really ask what a safety concept it is facing positively. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who do you mean?]] Mr Scheibner, no excitement! We will not agree to your request either, because this request ultimately means nothing more than the continuation of the policy that Wolfgang Schüssel has already pursued as a Foreign Minister in an excellent way. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to tell you the following because it has also been referred to: Security is something that for people does not go hand in hand with discussions about how they are being conducted here. I was allowed to feel security when, in 1991, the Austrian border was shot, border stations were shot in fire and dead were on the road – in stone's throw from us. I felt fear in the population at the time. And I felt at that time, with what joy and relief it was recorded, that the Austrian federal army – certainly not under optimal conditions and with optimum equipment – was hit to demonstrate security and to give the population a hold. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think this discussion, as it has been held by the Greens, is particularly objectionable: on the one hand, to talk about the fact that our security policy is obviously a key objective in dealing with mediation in any conflict outside our direct sphere of influence, but on the other hand it is quite clear that the legitimate interests of the Austrian federal army, in order to be able to fulfil its task of having optimal equipment, are simply removed from the table. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we are not going to approve these proposals today. But let us keep talking, and let us look for the common path on this issue! I'm sure he's in the hands of Wolfgang Schüssel, too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14043	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now proceed to the vote on the self-employed amendment 60/A by Mr Pilz and Mr Comrades on Austrian neutrality, European unification and the immediate implementation of a People's Survey. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz and Mr Comrades on the possible implementation of a referendum referendum. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Scheibner and Mr Comrades on Austria's participation in the construction of a European security architecture. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14112	I shall now resume the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14137	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the exciting topic of neutrality, we are now returning to quite normal things, such as the Committee of the Regions' report on consolidation packages, and here in particular Chapter 12 – Education. Some of my previous speakers have already noted – as the Court of Auditors also notes in its report – that the consolidation goals have not been or have been missed. In addition, the report on page 191 mentions insufficient control instruments, non-compliance with federal proposals and failure to achieve the objectives of reduction in staff positions. Mr Steindl has already complained to the highest degree today that the ORF should have reported so unfairly on the Court of Auditors' report. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Is this a Majesty policy now when I address the ORF?]] In the Committee, the ÖVP complained that the Court of Auditors would have been so harsh and so hard to deal with the Ministry of Education compared to other departments. For me, I already have the question of whether in the ÖVP some Members believe that the Court of Auditors is an extended arm of its party headquarters, that the Court of Auditors should not show and criticize any shortcomings in an ÖVP ministry. President Fiedler's answer then makes everything clear. He said that the addressees could not choose what a Court of Auditors report looks like, otherwise the Court of Auditors could stop working. But it was not said what was felt as so harsh and even so harsh. If one reads this chapter carefully, I believe that there is no reason to accuse the Court of Auditors of having practiced unwarranted criticism. As a thread – and some of my previous speakers have already said – the Court of Auditors' statement that, in the absence of necessary data, the report did not allow the identification of the actually achieved savings. For example, it says: "... as far as data are available..." or "... that the evaluation of the individual measures due to the lack of data was substantially difficult...". In the field of teacher education, it is said that the documents on "appropriate supplements" are missing. When I consider how penablely precise and precise – very much to the suffering of teachers and administrations – these things have to be recorded in schools, I wonder where these records are. It then becomes much more interesting. It also says that "the achievement of the... The aim of further saving 1 400 sites could not be verified due to the lack of data". – Achieving the savings target of 1,400 planning sites! That means yes, Mrs Federal Minister, that in Your department does not know how many teachers are actually busy. I couldn't believe that, I heard a little bit about it and learned that there is a separate department for education economy and statistics in which a lot of data is produced. I brought some of them. It's already mentioned in the introduction: Other relevant publications with annual reprint are available. – I have them all there, but for reasons of time I will no longer quote them. My question: Are these data not available to the Court of Auditors, or are these data so bad that they are not sufficient for auditing the Court of Auditors? If that's the case, I'll ask myself: What about this department? On the other hand, there are always different opinions on the part of the Ministry of Education. Once it is said that the standard-hour model has a falling number of students. There is the talk of declining schooling numbers and – nevertheless – increasing expenditure for national teachers. On the other hand, although there are more students, the number of teachers remains the same. You, Mrs Federal Minister, say that this is mostly due to the lack of data from the countries. I ask you: Has You really don't have any influence on the countries? Even if this is to be negotiated on a budgetary basis, I know that national school inspectors are federal officials. I know that the Council of State Schools is a Federal Service. I think the Federal Minister should also have a right of guidance there. I'd like to know something, too. According to a statement by the Federal Ministry of Education and Art, you have instructed the National School Councils and the City School Council to replace missing savings by the deletion of unit values. – My question: Skill You're asking the state school councils to do this? If so, what does your statement mean that you have no influence there? A second question I would like to put to you is: What does it mean simply to delete units of values? – The removal of unit values means that the quality of the school and the school system is questioned. If this is the future demand for savings, I believe that our children and young people have not deserved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14173	The next speaker was Mrs Haller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14195	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! We are in the Court of Auditors' exercise report on the two consolidation packages. The summary at the end of this report states: The main objective of fiscal consolidation has been achieved. The federal states and municipalities made an important contribution here. However, it has not been achieved – as the next paragraph says – that these savings measures should have been implemented in two-thirds over the expenditure and one-third over the revenue side. That de facto is about the balance. If today Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger has tried to explain here that this is not so bad, because in the end – he has not said this literally – both measures are at the expense of the citizen, then I can only give him a certain part of the right, because one could have saved somewhere, namely in the field of administration. The Court of Auditors very well endorses in its report the fact that the possibility of administrative simplification and thus savings was not used, that even the opposite was the case. In an issue of the magazine "Format" it is said there as a large headline: "The goal has not been achieved." Ministers of both government parties are negatively affected by their behaviour: whether this is on the one hand the Federal Chancellor, whether the castle is called "trickser", whether the Federal Minister is one, but on the other hand also Federal Minister Gehrer and Federal Minister Fassleven, who is called "Prasser". I have to say that the truth will be somewhere in the middle. However, it is clear that the macroeconomic impact was largely negative. There has been higher unemployment, there has been a loss of economic growth and income development. These losses in income development have also made more socially weak. The great losers were the women and the families. That's not a secret. As a family spokesperson of our party, I would of course like to refer to Chapter 19, which has not yet been done by anyone in my knowledge. In this respect, it is also stated in the Perception Report that the consolidation objective has been largely achieved, but a subsequent change in the law imposed on the Family Remuneration Fund a future additional burden which has already occurred. Almost silently, the proportion of weekly money was increased from previously 50 percent to 70 percent. And this is an old tactic that the Finance Ministers have repeatedly applied in the area of FLAF. They have repeatedly tried to force FLAF to take action from other departments. These incisive measures were apologised, in particular, for the consolidation packages with the high family benefits that Austria has anyway, and for the explosion of social expenditure. However, the following must already be said: It was not the family benefits that contributed to this cost explosion. From 1980 to 1997, social expenditure not only increased 4.2 times, but multiplied, family benefits only by 1.8 times. Social expenditure has also increased by 3 times in the area of per capita calculation, those in the area of family only by twofold. It can therefore be proved that FLAF expenditure does not have an expansive impact on the budget. I say this very consciously, with regard to the coming measures and also to the coming so-called – or whatever one wants to formulate – third savings package. I would recommend the following to you, ladies and gentlemen, the reading of a contribution by Dr. Firlei in the series of writings by the Austrian Institute for Family Research, in which he calls the families in Austria "Narren der Gesellschaft" in which he talks about the "Dumnity-to-Families" and what one wants to think of the families in the future without giving up. As a family spokesperson, I do not wish to belong to a future government that continues this path, this path on which families with children are subject in the distribution contest. I would like to say this from this point of view today and here.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14249	The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14270	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Federal Ministers! High house! If one reads through the Court of Auditors' report, one insists – in an objective assessment – that thanks be to God in the Court of Auditors only people are at work. It's not superhumans, so-called people like you and me, maybe a little more precise, maybe a little more pensible, but it's also people who give something to human needs. That's positive, and that makes them sympathetic. I do not wish to criticise the Court of Auditors' report now, but I would like to relativize a little after the whole discussion, even after the discussion in the media, in which there has been a difference between evil and less evil and successful ministers. Because you have to read between the lines, you have to read how different things have been evaluated. There are ministries that say they have successfully completed the consolidation process. That doesn't mean they've already reached the goal. For other ministries in the same situation, it is said that they have not achieved consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen! I already see the different political views in the assessment, but we should be objective here too. The Court of Auditors, I would just like to mention, assess its own savings measures in particular: "The Court of Auditors, through a sparing delivery and rescheduling of necessary investments, has largely reduced its budget and thus contributes to the consolidation efforts of the federal government." And so on. This is an example, and we would be glad if we could give everyone such a report. But – this has been discussed today – the ministries are subject to certain constraints. Mrs. Gehrer, for example, mentioned that she has no influence on the teachers of the state. It must pay for it, but on the classification, on the cost it has no influence. This is a cost factor that comes in retrospect. She's in the process of introducing a controlling. Or if, for example, the cost increase at the Ministry of the Interior is assessed as follows – I read before, ladies and gentlemen –: "The Court of Auditors considered additional staff expenditure justified because the border service of the Federal Army had not been sufficiently provided for budgetly and the additional expenditure for additional traffic monitoring was financed from dedicated fines and was thus used in accordance with the statutory mandate." – So there is understanding of the additional expenditure on Schengen. Now we know that Federal Minister Fassleven with the German army is also doing the same as assisting missions. For example, the report states: More expenditure in 1997 was mainly due to increased staffing in border security. The Ministry of Interior is "justified" and the Ministry of State Defense lacks that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have to read between the lines, and if, on the one hand, the same conditions on the one hand, something more positive is assessed and on the other, a little more negative, then criticism is appropriate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also saw the mission "Hohes Haus", and I also thought I was – I was in the Court of Auditors Committee – at the wrong event. For the criticism that came here was exactly what we heard from the SPÖ and the Greens in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, and it seemed to me that Mr Rudas – Steindl Franz mentioned it earlier – had been sitting in his ears to commentators and reporters like a thumb and told them what they should say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I also say this in view of the fact that Mr Brix mentioned earlier that in Lower Austria the ORF is piling into the ÖVP headquarters, ladies and gentlemen. Go out, Mr Kogler and Mr Brix, and say, as far as the Federal Army is concerned: We're against a national defense, we're against the federal army! [[Abg. Edler: The Brix never said that!]] This would be much more honest than going out here and criticizing the costs. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We are against a budget cover!]] Come on. You're out and you're saying, According to our ideology, we are against a military national defense! We want to get rid of the federal army! Minister Edlinger has also said that he is very difficult if he has to spend money on the procurement of necessary equipment, but the federal army also includes our soldiers whose accommodations are being built. These are all the costs that belong to the above. But be honest and say what you want. Packaging You don't want to do this by beating Federal Minister Fassleven and meeting the Federal Army. Then go out and say, We don't want a federal army! Get rid of it! [[Abg. Olympians: We don't want to catch hunters!]] That would be more honest. You will, of course, not get a majority in Austria, but at least people will know what they have to keep from your defense plans. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That would be honest, but not suspicions, as they came first, not shakes, not suspicions. In relation to what Mr. Pilz has brought before, Steven Spielberg with his films "Jurassic Park" and "Der Weiße Hai" seems immediately inconceivable. You have to admit that. From the imagination you have, he can learn from you. Unfortunately, however, the imagination goes through with you, and we have to see and recognize that too. I consider the Court of Auditors report to be very objective, as very critical, but we should leave the church in the village and see things as they are: that the ministries are subject to different constraints in order to be able to fulfil their tasks, which they have to fulfil by law.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14355	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Glavischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14376	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! This report by the Court of Auditors also addresses a very controversial problem, which I would like to point out here, namely administrative simplification. In my opinion, this is essentially reflected in two major areas of problem. The one problem concerns the division of laws into federal law, i.e. all that is covered by the problem of uniform environmental protection law, harmonization of the trade regulations, EIA, mountain law, waste management law and cetera. This gives rise to legal uncertainty and displeasure in the population, because it is partly objectively unwarranted differences. The second major problem in this context – this is also what the President of the Court of Auditors has in the "Mitagsjournal" of 15. In the context of this report, which is very detailed on December 1999 – the fragmentation of the state structure is: 15 Member States, 9 federal states – also a Bonmot in the European Union – and the implementation of nature conservation directives, which must take place in 27 laws, and in particular the fragmented legal situation in the field of animal welfare. Two years of negotiations are necessary for a 15a agreement. Even federalist Switzerland has managed to adopt a federal animal welfare law in this area. This unclear or, let us say, unsatisfying legal situation of course also leads to dumping in this area, which causes again and again – that is documented – animal torture. For this reason, I would like to make the following request for a uniform animal welfare law:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14439	Mr Edler is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14461	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Grossruck – I think he has left now – has problems with Mr Pilz concerning the German army, he should make up for this with Mr Pilz. But for my group colleague Brix, because I know his political work, I can say that he is fighting for jobs in arms procurement and has never taken a position against the Austrian federal army, Mr Großruck. So to put that to us, the Social Democracy, is really not appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I believe, we are discussing the Court of Auditors' report on the consolidation package in principle all day long, because it is a lot more about this discussion, it is also about the 1998 accounts, and it is about the current situation. But I think we can be proud of what we have achieved together, ladies and gentlemen: We made this consolidation together! There has certainly been a wide-ranging discussion and a lot of criticism, but when we talk to people outside after this consolidation has been completed, we note that they have great understanding that this was necessary. I believe that the Austrian people deserve great recognition for this. Ladies and gentlemen! Since the public service has been called for again in the last few days, I should like to point out what the German Government is now discussing. But to consolidate – and this must be said – the public service has contributed a very important part. We must thank these colleagues for being willing to do so. I think that would be appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen! Since criticism has been criticised by the Court of Auditors, I would like to say, Mr President, that controlling has, in principle, been, I think, positively assessed, but in some areas the controlling has not worked. And the EIA should not be angry if we repeat what we have said quite clearly in the Committee: It is now necessary to assess this report and it is clear that consolidation has not been achieved, particularly in the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Defence. Mr Fassleven is not here now, but we will repeat it, ladies and gentlemen: The procurement system of the Austrian Federal Army – we are not discussing this for the first time now; for years we have also discussed this within the coalition – is not all right. There is a need to control, there you have to look at the political interrelationships between arms purchases, and we are going to look at this very carefully and pensibly, ladies and gentlemen. That's what you have to expect. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent weeks, however, the President of the Court of Auditors has also reported on budgetary considerations and on expenditure expansions, and I am very grateful, Mr President, that you have also expressed your support for the debated and present state reform. If we want countries to get more opportunities in the decision, we need to be aware that this is causing more costs, as you have properly assessed. But it is the question of who will finance this once and how we find the cover. The fact that the financial balance is to be achieved, that individual municipalities or cities should pay for this invoice in practical terms, is not to be seen. A controversial position has been taken with regard to the Wifo study. It sets out the basis for the Court's investigations and findings. The Federal Ministry of Finance has taken a different position. I emphasise that the way was right, that we have said that we must save, but as far as employment is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, this federal government has opposed the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs in particular. We can therefore be glad to see today: If we are going to separate from the government – as democrats we will manage it, I personally have no problem with it, but I will fight for not telling anyone that we are leaving behind a shredded pile – we leave behind a country with the highest level of employment and the lowest level of unemployment in which the economy is growing and booming, where the exports in which inflation is equal to zero and where income is rising. [[Abg. Aumayr: And the debt!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We leave behind a country that's okay with a high reputation. The next government is required to continue to represent this country accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14511	I'm going to: The motion for a resolution tabled by Members Glavischnig and comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Kogler spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14536	Mr Grossruck has asked me to comment, but I think he is not in the hall himself. Of course, Mr Pilz and I are against tanking and against further purchases of so-called airspace surveillance aircraft, but this situation cannot allow the Minister of Defence to make a sluggish budget planning and budget policy. You already have to keep things apart. And that we will continue to criticize this, you should not be surprised. In fact, it is obviously a matter of working hard to ensure that the rumor in the world is kept that the ÖVP has a special budget and economic competence. On this committee day, nothing was to be noticed. I therefore believe that the ORF has correctly reported this, and this lamentary animal should finally have an end. That was a very clear weight in this committee. It didn't look good for the ÖVP ministers. And that's it! You can't discuss that away.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14579	Mr Lexer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14601	Dear President! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked my first speech here in Parliament to be different and, above all, to be more exciting, because I find it very difficult to talk about the dry figures of a Court of Auditors report for five minutes. That is why I am not going to use these five minutes. Today, it is not a question of speaking pro or counter-measures in the federal army – this is the case of the Defence Committee, which does not need to be dealt with here – I think it is far more important that we return to today's issue, namely the consolidation packages and the question of whether the respective area, the respective ministry, has achieved these goals. And on the topic "Federal Ministry of State Defense", the Court of Auditors concludes that the Federal Ministry of State Defense has partly achieved the consolidation goals. What does that mean? I say immediately that I am caught, because all the measures that have led to the achievement of the objective have only partially, I can help because I believe that these measures are correct and important. For example, 1995 additional expenditure: Switching the "time soldier" to the "military person to time". Considering that the time soldiers were available around the clock more or less without overtime and deserved a bet, I believe that this measure was urgently necessary. In 1996, there were even savings of around 50 million schillings. These restrictions have, for example, been achieved by the savings in journal services and the removal of exercise units. This year, however, there was also less revenue due to the minor reconstitution of foreign operations, which we do not have under control. In 1997, more revenue from this area was generated because of the fact that payment morals have improved. On the other hand, in 1997 additional expenditure was incurred by the purchase of combat tanks, by the additional material requirements of the Schengen Agreement and by increased staffing in border security. The latter, I believe, is an issue that is important for all of us, especially for the federal states of Burgenland and Lower Austria. To question this important measure was to be negligent today. In this area, I also asked the President of the Court of Auditors to tell me whether it would be possible to compare costs between the costs incurred by the Federal Government and the costs incurred if the Ministry of the Interior carried out this border control. We would like to know in black and white how cheaply our federal army is doing this important achievement. If you look into the future – and I believe that there is a majority in this House who support EU enlargement and enlargement – then you know that the borders will move. We have the advantage that we do not have fixed costs, but that we can bring our soldiers back into the barracks and thus do not have to bear any more burdens in the future. Overall, assistance has been spent – this number, as I mean, very important – since 1990 with 5 billion schillings. Consider: 5 billion schilling for this important measure, paid out of the Minister of Defence's budget! It is now 750 million every year, and I believe that these 750 million schillings would really be assigned to the Ministry of the Interior. If we did that, I could report here today: The Federal Ministry of Defence has not only achieved its consolidation goals but has far exceeded its objectives. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14653	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14674	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to allow myself to refer to Mrs Haller's contribution very briefly. I think it was right to address the question of revenue-based and expenditure-side measures, in which there should be a proper balance. However, I believe that it is sometimes more an expert question with regard to the assessment, which is seen as a revenue or as an issue. In my opinion, decisive in all consolidation measures is the effect, that is, the effect on individual people, on distribution justice. However, what is crucial is what it means for the private demand of the population, because growth is also strongly influenced by private demand. If we do not promote policy in the same way as growth, this will again have a negative impact on the entire national product. This is where the cycle closes. I therefore believe that it is often necessary to consider not only semantic or professional revenue or expenditure, but also to say how the actual effects on people and ultimately on the general economic cycle are. I did not want to create any contradiction with you here, but I would like to stress what our Minister of Finance has said today. However, allow me also a few words to the FLAF, the family compensation fund. The Family Allowance Fund is fed almost exclusively by employers' contributions. These employers' contributions are contributions that are included in the additional wage costs and therefore also need to be balanced in the distribution of funds taken out of the FLAF. In my view, it is not acceptable, when it comes to achieving a balance in consolidation concepts, not touching a fund, not ensuring that this fund also contributes to the initiation and support of a consolidation process, but to other funds. Here all those who have to contribute to a balance have to take care of them. When you address the families with children, I feel that we naturally have to support a society in which the children find the best possible conditions. I would like to stress once again what is one of the biggest family policy and social policy achievements in our country: This is the contribution-free co-insurance in the health insurance for family members. In the general discussion, it is often underestimated which solidar compensation takes place here within the insured community of single earners, from couples or persons who do not have children to families or persons with children. I believe that this is a very important factor that we must stress again and again in our consideration of what we are doing for the families in our country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because you rightly mentioned the wording in the Court of Auditors' report, that budgetary consolidation has been largely achieved, and that in the 'format', the budgetary objective of consolidation has not been achieved. . Before asking who I believe more, I must say that I believe more in the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14720	Mr Leikam has also spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14741	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Where is he, Minister of Defense? [[Abg. Kiss: During the negotiations!]] I notice that he has never been on the government bank all day for such an important subject of his department, but on the bank of Members. Now he is not even sitting on the latter again, and I can only interpret it in such a way that his own group no longer wants to see him in this function. This would also be understandable, because the Court of Auditors' report is quite clear as to how Mr Fassleven's place of business was. I'll get even closer to that. First of all, however, I would like to say that it is really unacceptable for the Minister responsible for an area, when it comes to his place of business and where there is a very legitimate criticism from the Court of Auditors, not to honour the House with his presence. I would have liked him to be there if he was discussed about his place of business. I would also like to point out clearly and clearly, because almost every ÖVP speaker has done so, that the Social Democratic Group of this House, our overall party, has always known itself as the Austrian Federal Army and will always do so. That's not a question at all! And this also includes the fact that we are willing to provide the Austrian federal army with the necessary means to make a budget available to it. But I will also say why we believe that the funds available to the Federal Minister of Defence have simply been misappropriated. However, I would like to refer briefly to Mr Lexer's comments. Once again, he tried to bring the border service into a connection with the interior. He presented it as if there were hardly any problems in the defence resort if the interior had to bear the appropriate costs. I don't think it's easy to do it. The billing of the Ministry of the Interior against the Ministry of Defence cannot be carried out. I would ask the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors to repeat what he said in the Committee, namely that this billing, as proposed here by the EIA Members, is not acceptable. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' report on the defence sector. The department of defence has an annual budget of around 8.4 billion schilling. There were in 1995 presuppositions of 4.4 billion, 1996 5.4 billion, 1997 7.3 billion, and we have now reached 8 billion schilling presupposements in the defence budget. The President of the Court of Auditors, in his report, but also in the Committee, said that in the future financing of urgently needed investments in the field of defence will only be extremely difficult because the pre-imposition of the defence budget has reached an extent which cannot be accepted. It is from then on to call into question the work of the Minister in a very energetic way. For what does such a tremendous predisposition mean in a department? At the same time, we have heard what great acquisitions the federal army needs. It's about the successor of the Dragons, it's about the helicopters, it's about finally renewing the 30-40-year-old vehicle park. The trucks break down the young soldier practically during the ride under their butt – if I may say so – together. It is almost negligent when soldiers are still on the road with these vehicles in our Republic. Why did I practice criticism here in the first place? – Because I believe that the budget was not so small in itself, but the priorities of the Federal Minister were simply misplaced. It is the priorities that I do not think have been set correctly. There has been a discussion in this House not long ago, during which the Federal Minister, for example, meant that transport helicopters are not necessary, the German army owns enough transport helicopters. – It required the disaster of Galtür, so that a rethinking in this direction was also set in motion by the Federal Minister. Although the government partner SPÖ has been willing to make 400 million schillings available for the purchase of transport helicopters annually outside the defense budget, the Federal Minister is now seriously considering, not buying these transport helicopters, but buying again helicopters equipped with a weapon system. A second case, my own Ladies and gentlemen, which I have already mentioned in the Court of Auditors and which I simply do not agree with the reply of the Federal Minister for Defence. It's – and that's what I mean, the wrong priority again – to buy heavy combat tanks, Leopard II. 150 heavy combat tanks of the type M60 are fully functional and more martial-elevated in Lower Austria and have been motified there in some way. I wonder why, if 150 combat tanks are available to him anyway, the Minister of Defence wants to purchase new combat tanks Leopard II. We would have preferred to have wheel tanks because it would have been more sensible. This shows, for example, the international use of our soldiers over and over again. No, it had to be Leopard II and a Dutch product. [[Abg. Young: You really don't know each other at all!]] And the absurdity: These tanks were delivered with a radio system, which of course also had to be paid, by the way, with a radio system that had to be eliminated two years before by the Austrian federal army. So here we have once again bought something that we have already given up. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said by some speakers today: This wrong set of priorities and the serious mistakes that the Court of Auditors report has repeatedly shown in planning and implementing arms procurement are for me the reason for the fact that these shortcomings exist in the German army. In this context, we need to know that revenues have also been achieved through the sale of properties. It is also the only place in which the Minister of Finance has returned 100 percent of the sales proceeds to the relevant place of business. This was not the case in other areas. And yet this pre-load of nearly 8 billion schilling is – that corresponds almost to an annual budget! ....................................................................................................... [[Abg. Young: Do you know how high the sales revenues were?]] Unfortunately, I have too little time now, my colleague, unfortunately. Mr Steindl – I do not see him at the moment – said today in his speech that the Minister of Finance was a good rhetoric, only he did not do his homework as Minister of Finance. The Minister for Defence also spoke of a financial GAU that the Minister of Finance had left behind. – Ladies and gentlemen, I leave it to the Austrian population, in the area in question, in particular our skilled soldiers and our officers, to assess the situation left by the divorced Minister of Defense in his place. I just want to say, For us, for the Socialist Group of this House, it is clear that this Minister of State has disarmed the German army. He left a mess. Our soldiers and our officers really deserved a better minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14835	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14856	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Gaßner asked me whether the statistics of the Ministry of Education had been known to the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to you: Of course, the statistical material was available to us. However, it is not too meaningful, regardless of its fullness, because this statistical material does not show the figures which are crucial to the Court of Auditors in this examination, for example, not the units of value consumed or how many of the teachers were fully employed or part-time employed. Only the "heads" have been mentioned here. In other words, the Court of Auditors remains aware of the need to improve the data situation in the field of education. And that not only in relation to the data on the national teachers, but also in other respects, as we did in the report. But now I want to turn to something basic: The Court of Auditors has examined in great detail the consolidation packages of 1995 and 1996. It was one of the most extensive audits ever carried out by the Court of Auditors. It was important to evaluate more than a hundred laws, including laws that were partly overlaid by exogenic effects in their effect. We have not made it easy for ourselves and, as I believe, we have presented a report that meets the demands of the Court of Auditors itself, and also the demands that they are properly put in place in this House. If a number of departments feel unfair, do not feel treated equally, I can assure you that the Court of Auditors has, of course, taken into account the principle of equal treatment into account in this report. It has set the same level for all the departments it has examined. He could of course come to other results in his assessment and assessment. The results, which differed, depended on the findings he made. And these findings were based on facts he found. I would like to stress here: It was set up in the same way and the principle of equal treatment was respected. The fact that the assessment was finally different is due to the fact that the Court of Auditors found in the different sectors was not the same. What is the result of the Court of Auditors' report? – It is in principle extremely positive. The targets set by the Federal Government itself, namely the 3 per cent "Maastricht" deficit, have been achieved in 1997, with the very significant result of 1.9 per cent of the gross domestic product. However, this very positive result should not conceal the fact that the positive effects of the two savings packages were also associated with negative effects. Victims of these negative effects were not least the total population, in particular by means of tax and pension measures. There were losses not only in public consumption, but also in private consumption – you should not forget that. That is to say, the opportunities for private households to have finance were limited, in 1997 to a level of 3.3 percent. The two savings packages also had a slight increase in unemployment, also a slight rise in price levels, negative effects which had to be taken into account in view of the overall objective of achieving the Maastricht criteria, but which – and I would like to stress this – were only possible on the basis of the victims of the population. However, the negative effects also partly had a lasting effect or at least a long-term effect. For example, the tax measures, which constitute a burden, are still effective in the following years. However, as we know today, the positive effects of the two savings packages did not last too long. They have helped to achieve improved results in 1997. Unfortunately, God has already seen an increase in the "Maastricht" deficit in 1998. And the development has now shown with all clarity that further consolidation measures are needed. In the Court's view, this is particularly due to the fact that, in parallel with the consolidation measures implemented in 1995 and 1996, too few structural measures were put in place in view of the budget, which would have had a positive lasting effect. I conclude by saying: In my view, the planned consolidation measures in relation to the budget must also be accompanied by structural measures, otherwise there is a risk that only a partial step will be taken again, that success will be achieved only in sub-areas and that no lasting effect will occur. It should also be taken into account that long-term budgetary rehabilitation measures that burden the people in the long term, in other words, tax and pension measures, should also have a positive impact on the budget in the long term, i.e. not just for two or three years, but for many years. Only then can a real consolidation be achieved. It would be unfair to demand from the population for the consolidation of only two or three budgets in a negative way that are effective for decades. And if we today face the fact that further consolidation measures are necessary and undisputed, we should take this aspect into account in particular. As President of the Court of Auditors, I can conclude from the examination of the two consolidation packages: Consolidation measures should be taken in time; they should not be isolated in space but associated with structural measures. I would like to see the forthcoming consolidation measures intervene in the way that the Court of Auditors will no longer have to evaluate further savings packages in the future, simply because other savings packages will no longer be necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14925	Mr Kurzbauer has the floor to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14947	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Leikam, I have a request: While you said at the beginning of your speech that you are confessing to the Austrian federal army, in your statements you unfairly criticized our Federal Minister for Fassleven. I'd like to reject that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The Court of Auditors!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Perception Report on the Consolidation Packages 1995 to 1997 states that the foundations of the Consolidation Packages are the Structural Adjustment Acts 1995 and 1996 based on the Coalition Convention 1996 and then, ultimately, the European Council Resolution on the European Stability and Economic Pact. The objective — President Fiedler has pointed out — is to determine whether the main objective of fiscal consolidation, namely to reduce the re-indebtedness of the federal government to less than 3% by 1997 and thus the conditions for participation in the 3rd. The European Economic and Monetary Union has been achieved. We can see from this report that this objective has been achieved. In terms of numbers, this was achieved, but as we have already discussed in the 1998 budget today, it is like a red thread that the structural measures provided for on the expenditure side were only partially respected. In Chapter 50 – Financial management, the Court of Auditors is well aware of the successful consolidation efforts and recommends further expansion of the controlling installed in 1997. Above all, it is important to put in place structural measures in parallel with the budget in addition to individual steps. In the field of rewards and grants, the individual ministries should cut by 50 percent compared with 1995. This has been very successful in the individual ministries, only in the Federal Ministry of Finance this reduction was not achieved during the period under review. In the field of public taxes, I would like to refer to three points mentioned by the Court of Auditors: The period provided for in the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act was too short. The objective of a significant administrative simplification has been neglected for years now by the Court of Auditors. The financial impact of regulatory measures was not sufficiently documented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I particularly value the use of the international software product SAP in the Ministry of Finance. This project offers the opportunity to fundamentally reorganise the budgetary and accounting system. It is important that this project is implemented very quickly or further expanded. Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors has stated in his statement that this perceptive report is very comprehensive and has been produced under great time pressure. I would therefore like to thank the honourable Members of the Court of Auditors very much. We will be happy to give this report our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e14990	Mr President, I would also like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15012	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary remark: I cannot, at best, recognize a link between the perceptive report on the consolidation packages and a federal animal welfare law. Even if you, Mrs Glavischnig, or bring forward five motions for resolutions, it is nevertheless not a technical link to be recognised, neither with the implementation report nor with the 1998 accounts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Administrative simplification, colleague!]] I would, however, like to address that chapter of the Perception Report, which deals with the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs. The Court of Auditors notes that the five billion schilling target has been missed in this area. There are, of course, many reasons for this. But especially in the field of labour market services, there are essential reasons for not being saved or budget consolidation. Hidden in the Nirwana statistical one tries to sell the fake privatisation of the AMS as a success and as a saving measure. For the reduction of the planning site in the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs, it is to be said that the actual reduction in 1994 was due to the breakdown of the labour market service. If you look at the surface, you could say that the requirements are fulfilled. However, it is important to look at the details, because the look in the detail makes sure. In fact, the AMS staff stand has increased during this time: In the years 1996/97 alone, the number of employees in the labour market has increased from 2 106 people to 2 536, so there are more 430 employees. It raises the question of whether this is really a saving. Does the SPÖ mean "privateization" cost explosion and post reproduction? [[Abg. Oillinger: You have a black board in there anyway! Mr. Böhm!]] The number of planning posts has increased by 257 full employment equivalents at this time. Of these 257 planning posts alone, 208 are part of the labour market service. Here again, the question arises: Is it really a saving when the staff level in the AMS increases instead of a reduction, and that only because the labour market service law provides funding through the budget? [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The ÖVP has "no influence at all" on this!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: The Lord Bohemia is your party friend!]] Is it really a saving, ladies and gentlemen, if the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance, Mr Edlinger, set the AMS ceiling at 4 180? In 1997, 4 147 people were already employed there. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a gradual increase in staff instead of savings, at the expense of taxpayers! The fact that the budget cannot be consolidated is clear. One has the impression that parts of SPÖ and trade union prefer to ruin the state rather than contribute in a positive sense. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: I don't know!]] How else can it be explained that in the area of annual working time models, instead of the planned 2.9 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, only a good tenth, namely 11.6 percent, which is 340 million schilling, was achieved? I believe that in this case, the trade unions have not done a good job for the workers. One has tried to raise with arguments such as illiteracy and the same unrealistic notions and then perhaps to push the economy to the black Peter. If not, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Don't talk such nonsense! That's a blackmail!]] There are many other areas that could be mentioned in this context. Just one more thought about the contract scheme. The work contract regulation leads to a huge red tape. Instead of the planned 1.5 billion schilling, only 640 million schilling have been achieved. The requirements for the implementation of social security schemes were simply insufficient. Mrs. Minister! bureaucratic barriers cause costs. You have actually remained guilty of the answers in the Committee. For me, the question is: Did you want to or could you not answer these questions? If you couldn't, then you're apparently overwhelmed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15125	The next speaker was Mr Kostelka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15146	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We shall, I assume, also vote on a motion for a resolution tabled by Members Glavischnig and comrades on animal welfare as a federal competence if the President permits it. In this context, I would like to express my position and the position of my group. [[Abg. May. Steindl: Mr Klubobmann, what does this have to do with the Court of Auditors' report? Tell me!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today – I hope that is not just today – we have primarily formal but not content problems with each other. We have problems because you have chosen a way that is not really understandable to me. They ask the Federal Government to submit to you a bill for a Federal Animal Protection Act and a corresponding constitutional novel. Ladies and gentlemen! They are addressing this resolution – according to the Constitution a request of the National Council to the Federal Government – to the Federal Government, which is and will belong to the ÖVP and which will only do one thing, namely basically nothing. You know very well that the ÖVP does not intend to make the most of an application concerning a Federal Animal Protection Act. That is why my group has today introduced such a constitutional law and also a simple federal animal protection law. I invite you to use the business and constitutional instruments that exist in this context, for example, a deadline. [[Abg. Scheibner: You were against it last time, against the deadline! They were against the deadline!]] We will then have a decision in the National Council at the appropriate level. But this path is neither targeting nor sensible. The ÖVP does not think of it and will not remember to present such a draft. Unfortunately, I am very sure of that. I believe that, as in Switzerland and in Germany, there is a need for animal welfare at the federal level in Austria, because only the federal government is able to ensure a uniform protection of the animals. I would therefore ask you to consider this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15200	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish to speak? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-5 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig and Mr Comrades on animal welfare as a federal competence. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (14 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Labour Constitution Act (24 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15261	We shall now proceed to item 3 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Silhavy is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15289	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The first concerns the extension of the scope of the European Company Constitution to the United Kingdom and, second, the safeguarding of separate agreements on cross-border information and consultation of workers. De facto is therefore transposed into Directive 97/74/EC. In general, of course, we must welcome this measure very much. However, in connection with this item on the agenda, allow me to make a few comments on the Constitutional Act. The employee's interest representatives, especially the trade unions, have rightly called for some time to adapt and further develop the co-determination rights for works councils and works councils. Through new forms of work organisation, but also through ongoing structural changes in the enterprises, areas are increasingly emerging outside the operational scope of works councils. In this context, I would like to stress that last year our Federal Minister for Social Democratic Affairs Lore Hostasch sent out a draft amendment based on a compromise between the social partners. Unfortunately, we were unable to actually implement this draft here in the house because this compromise was torpedoed by the economy and was finally prevented. These are similar experiences, as we know them from the recent negotiations with the EIA, which are currently more politically critical. It is also similar to all the other provisions that would have meant more democracy for workers. We will also be doing today the first reading of the Labour Relationship Act, to which there is a similar position at the ÖVP. Although we are already writing in 2000, the ÖVP still does not have the will to bring the workers' rights into line with those of the employees. This process – that is to say, to abstain from democratic rights for workers – is already showing what policy we expect in the future if there should actually be an ÖVP/FPÖ or vice versa coalition. As in the past, so in the future, we will continue to work for the interests of the working people, for that is our political credo! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15336	Mr Dolinschek has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15357	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Silhavy, with regard to the approximation of workers' rights to workers' rights, I must say: It was always our group's concern to carry out this approximation. In the last three decades, you have had the opportunity to do so in the Federal Government, but you have not brought it together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] - Of course. Mrs. Colleague! We shall endeavour to achieve this approximation. As companies and groups of companies already operate in different countries and group mergers are on the agenda today in order to be economically successful, it is also necessary to provide for cross-country information and consultation of workers, to provide workers' representatives with competence and competence, thus creating a uniform economic framework and an extension of the European Works Council. This government template now provides for an extension of the European Works Council to Great Britain. I mean, that's a small step in the right direction. The information and consultation of workers is also included – I think that is absolutely all right. However, it is significant that the time limit for the implementation given to us by the Council of the European Union, namely a period of two years, was 15 years. ==References====External links== We are therefore no longer in good time, but we must bring this law into force retroactively, although a meeting of the Committee on Budgets took place in December. It is basically incomprehensible to me, but in the last three legislative periods in which I was here in the National Council, it has always been so common: You have repeatedly innovation or used something retroactively. In terms of content, I can say that this extension of the European Works Council is a small step towards a uniform economic environment in Europe and therefore quite positive. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15404	The last speaker to speak on this point is Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15425	Ladies and gentlemen! I can keep short of the Greens' contribution to this: We are pleased that the UK is now also in the scope of the European Works Council and that it is for this reason that we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15452	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 14 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also unanimously the case. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 52/A by Mr Friedrich Verzetznitsch, Dr. Gottfried Feurstein and Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977 and the Labour Market Service Act (25 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15511	We shall now proceed to item 4 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Reitsamer has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15538	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal does not concern the extension of the "Aufleb Foundation" as one hears so often – it runs, as planned, at the end of 2003 – but the extension of the entrance possibility, so that in 2000 people can enter this foundation. I am pleased that this measure was adopted unanimously in the Committee, although on various grounds, as I believe. On the one hand, there is a repayment obligation to the Chamber of Commerce – and this was obviously the political price for the approval of the extension of the admission. This is about co-financing that has not been exhausted. Ladies and gentlemen! It is expected to be about 1,000 new entrants this year. Up to now there have been 6 000 participants, and about 2,000 are still in action. The Work Foundation "Aufleb" was presented by the EU as "best practice project". It should also be stressed that financing is carried out on the one hand by the economy, on the other hand by the countries and by the labour market service. So far, workers from 1 275 farms have been cared for, and the placement rate is 87 percent. But we have always been for an evaluation. It is necessary to permanently review the effectiveness of such measures. It is gratifying that a sample in Styria showed that between 1995 and 1998 100 participants were in the Foundation, and for these, the mediation rate was at least 98 percent. Why is there this foundation for the food and beverages industry? – There are different statements, and I would like to put a few things in the right light here. It was known that EU accession poses massive problems for this sector in particular. The number of jobs in this area has fallen from around 100 000 to around 57 000 from 1994 to today. The only way to deal with such difficulties is perhaps to take additional training measures. The claim of the liberals that the reason for this foundation would have been the "consumer" plea is easily rebuttable. The original request for such a foundation was made by Mr Vergestnich, from 1994. The "consumer" balance took place only in 1995. And just – please, let this number break down on the tongue! – 6.2 percent of the Foundation's participants come from the "consum" meatry and bakery sector. Don't say now that we could have estimated this already in 1994, because otherwise I will address the question to you: Why didn't you have anything to estimate at Rosenstingl? Mr Staffaneller, who really has very well-founded knowledge in the field of the AMS, spoke of a Stiftung hysteria. I do not know what he meant by that, because in the end there is a decision about who can take part in such a foundation in the labour market service. At the same time as this decision is taken today, it is also ensured that workers who have opted for a reduction in working time in the framework of a solidarity premium model or in the form of part-time work have no disadvantages in the event of an accident at work than the pension would be lower, since contributions to social security can be paid after the basis of the calculation before the normal working time is reduced. This means a close link to the social network for me, which seems very, very important to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15605	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15627	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Work Foundations are measures to be launched in the event of unforeseen difficulties by firms in order to help employees get back into the labour market. This means that employees should be trained accordingly so that they can be integrated into their professional life as soon as possible. We liberals have called for an extension of the possibility of entry into this foundation so that this foundation can also be properly brought to an end. I am therefore saying, "putting an end to it in accordance with the rules" because there are much more favourable opportunities for training if one does so together with the firms. Please allow me some comments and comments on how the situation develops. I do not think that the said amount of 225 million schilling will be necessary for this extension of entry into this foundation, because the situation on the labour market has now changed. In December 1999, 28 529 fewer jobseekers were identified with the AMS services than in the previous year. At the end of December 1999, however, 32 547 job vacancies were also reported, i.e. 50.6 percent or 10 935 jobs more than in the previous year. The economy urgently needs labour! The economy needs good labour, which in the short term can be trained in modular training together with the economy, in line with the free jobs – I repeat it – which are much more favourable than in employers' foundations. The first three years of unemployment benefit are three years in the employment funds and after that they are entitled to unemployment benefit for another year. [[Abg. Mr Vergestnicht: Mr Colleague, you know the success rate of this foundation!]] I know the success rate, Mr President. I'll go into it without a doubt. I also know that I was accused of saying that with these foundations there is some sort of growth. I'd like to go in on it. [[Abg. Inconsistency: More than 80 percent success rate!]] - Yes, yes. I know these measurements, some of them from the AMS. You're correct. But I'm asking you: When was that measured? – With the conclusion of the foundation, at the immediate mediation! For example, I know the measurements at a large training institution in Fohnsdorf, for longer-term training, where basic training takes about one year. There, a similar number of success rates are achieved at the time of training. But I also know the success figures after 6 to 12 months: Then it is only 30 percent of those longer-term trainees who are still working in this profession. These are new evaluations, they're completely new. They're not gonna know her yet, but I know her. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll come back to that again: Training the job seekers for what the economy needs, in the shortest possible form. On the other hand, the foundations I mean, these small foundations, which have been sown a little bit, are those foundations that your trade union secretaries and your local party officials have desired. These were in companies they heard that there are difficulties in what they have caused the AMS to set up foundations and not primarily to provide work immediately, only so that they can show a political success! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why I think that's a problem and that we have to deal with it. I would like to point out something else, namely the development of the unemployed over fifty years. This problem is huge in Vienna. You don't need to get upset when the population is opposed to you on this point. In Vienna, 28.3 percent of the 50-year-olds and older people are without work. If you compare this with Carinthia, you see, there are only 13.4 percent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15690	The next speaker is Mrs. Hostasch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15711	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Staffaneller's contribution to the debate, allow me to add a few more figures to those mentioned by Mrs Reitsamer to the "Relive" Foundation and to foundations as a whole. First of all, to the basics. I believe that the strength of a good and comprehensive active labour market policy is that various measures, various offers, different models are developed and also used in a flexible way so that a comprehensive success can be achieved. The foundations are one of many active labour market policies – one, I believe, of very important but not exclusive measures. It is a fact that foundations are more expensive than some other measures. Nevertheless, they expect to do so because the mediation rates for foundations are disproportionately better than for many other labour market policies. In short, on the facts and data that Mrs Reitsamer mentioned. For the expiry of the "Aufleb" Foundation, not 225 million – that was, I think, said by Mr Staffaneller – are needed. It has been set up for an amount of 75 million, and that is why the Foundation is running out. This means that all who are in the foundation have a chance to find a transition into professional life in order: to the economy, to working life. Two thirds of the participants are in the foundations for less than 10 months. It was tried here to give the impression – but that is not true – that all participants are in unemployment for three years in the Foundation and perhaps another fourth year. I repeat: Two thirds of the participants are in the Foundation for less than 10 months, and only 2% of the participants are there for more than two years. I mean, it is also our obligation to look after those who are particularly difficult, and these are those who are in a foundation for two years. As the situation in Carinthia has been discussed here, I would also like to mention the situation in Styria, where Mr Staffaneller will probably be particularly well aware. An evaluation of the foundations in Styria has shown that 98 percent of those who participated in foundations between 1995 and 1998. If this is not a success figure and there is no evidence that foundations are an effective instrument of labour market policy for people, then I do not know what data you are still expecting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15762	Mr Feurstein, next speaker, spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15784	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to add to what the speakers from SPÖ and FPÖ have said: What's right is right in the middle. The Federal Minister made this very clear: In the field of labour market policy, we always need the measure that is adequate to the individual and that helps her best to return to work as quickly as possible. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, six years ago we set up the "Relive" Foundation, which was jointly set up by the two then governmental parties. I believe that it is an example of how good labour market policy can be worked. It is not true – I also know the foundation that was established in my federal state, Vorarlberg – that people stay in the foundation for three years and then are unemployed for another year. Thank God the stay in the foundation was much shorter. As a general rule, the persons concerned have found a new, very valuable job after re-training or further training. To that extent we stand at this foundation, especially because it has been sparingly worked in it. I do not know a project in the context of the labour market policy of recent years, in which it was concluded: We have not consumed all the money, and we can repay what has not been consumed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nicer.]] Mrs. Reitsamer! I'm different from you. I think it is right that the money that has not been used in this foundation is returned to those of which it originates, in this case to the economic operators who have co-financed this foundation considerably. That's why we insist that the money... – No, that's why we differ, Mrs Reitsamer. [[Abg. Ritsmer: If there had been no spent money, you might not have agreed to it!]] Money that has not been consumed is to be repaid to those who have made it available. On this point, ladies and gentlemen, we are different from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I give the FPÖ representatives a point of order: Not all projects in labour market policy have been successful. There are a number of projects that have not been successful. [[Abg. Oils: We know that!]] We talked about one of these projects before the summer. Mr Oellinger, you know the project that should have been set up for the apprentices, but which has practically nothing to do with the apprentices, namely the Euroteam project. This has to be mentioned today. However, the labour market policy, which was operated by the AMS Vienna and where there were a large number of emergency aid recipients, was not successful. We will have to intervene and ensure that in Vienna people are not so long emergency aid recipients and remain without work. There must also be projects for these people, with the help of which they can be integrated, to return to working life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me and for us from the ÖVP, we must strive to teach people work, to offer opportunities, to work. That must be our priority objective. Our aim must not be to provide people with and leave them in terms of unemployment or emergency aid. I mean – with all the recognition of the achievements that have been achieved here – that it will be an important task for the new Federal Government to set a new focus in this area, namely to offer people more work, because I believe there are many opportunities to do work. In this sense, we are happy to give this law our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15858	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15880	Mr Feurstein! If I take seriously what you have said – and I really like it – that labour market policy has to take individual people seriously and put them at the centre, I have to say: This is quite diametric to what the colleague of the liberals has said. He said that it would have to be adapted directly to the needs of the economy. If this is to be understood in this way – and this is the only way to understand this immediate vote: that the next employer can get rid of his duties and do these tasks the AMS – then this is a serious difference. What you are saying, Mr Staffaneller, reminds me of the washing-up courses that the AMS has already offered or had to offer, because the economy – Upper Austria – has deemed necessary. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Did you sign up for the dishwasher course?]] This is not the meaning and purpose of a qualification measure by the AMS. We consider the foundations to be an appropriate tool for job creation, because it is not a matter of training for the next day, but because the person concerned is supposed to acquire qualifications that will help him over the next few years. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] That's why we stick to the foundations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15923	Mr Dietachmayr was the last speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15945	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned above, this novel is about the right or the possibility of entry into the "Relive" foundation. In my opinion, this is a very important measure. The duration of this foundation is guaranteed until 2003. As we all know, the structural change process in the food and beverages industry has not yet been completed. The number of self-employed In this sector, between 1995 and 1998, workers have fallen by almost 6,000 people, i.e. around 7 percent. The unemployment rate has also increased particularly much in this area compared to the overall average. In particular, women are severely affected. It is therefore necessary to extend the duration of this measure in so far as the right of entry is still valid this year until 31. ==References== The measure initially taken with regard to the duration was underestimated insofar as further closures are to be feared. With us in Upper Austria, too, 17 dairies will probably be affected by a closure this year. As a result, around 200 employees will again lose their jobs. The successful work of the "Auflebung" Foundation must therefore be continued. It is an extremely successful model, which is best suited to reintegrate unemployed people into the labour market. It has already been mentioned that the mediation figures are pleased to be almost 90 percent. As the Federal Minister has already mentioned, it is not true that the people are staying in the foundation for three years, but the average length of stay is much lower than that of a year! Ladies and gentlemen! The qualification measures of a work foundation effectively combat the unemployment of those concerned and in addition increase the attractiveness of the employment site Austria, because the economy also benefits from the education and training measures of the graduates of the Foundation. Work foundations also prevent conflicts – and this should also be mentioned – as the retention of the strategy of employee interest representatives is only possible because an alternative can be offered to the affected colleagues. In the event of a foundation's departure, a more aggressive social plan policy must be pursued, which in turn leads to financial burdens on businesses. The overall economy is also burdened by more and longer-term unemployment payments. In addition to the economic arguments, the human aspect must also be taken into account. It can therefore be said, in principle, that job foundations are an excellent labour market policy measure. They are visible across Europe and can be recommended internationally for imitation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e15991	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 25 of the supplements. I am seeking the approval of those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. Notice of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16036	Before we reach the next item on the agenda, I announce the following: Deputies Dr. Pilz and comrades have, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the use of an investigation committee concerning the influence of the WestLB on the duties of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky. The debate on this has not been called for. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote shall be taken after completion of the agenda. In addition, the representatives of Dr. Pilz and Comrades, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigation committee on interventions and cash flows in connection with the award of arms procurement contracts. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after the vote on the previously announced request for the setting up of an investigation committee. 5. Point Report of the Committee on Science and Research on the report (III-16 of the Supplements) by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport on the social situation of students on the basis of the resolution of the National Council of 13 December 1990 on the E 91-NR/XX. GP (19 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16082	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak was Mr Schender. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16109	Mr President. Minister! High house! We are now discussing a report which contains a lot of basic statistical data on student life. It is good that this report has been drawn up or this statistical data has been collected, because it is an important numerical material that shows that it is really high time to take measures to enable efficient study. It is a bad picture to draw this report. Minister! You have taken up your duties in accordance with your own information to reduce the average duration of study. They have announced that they will unravel and compress the study plans, allowing them to study at the minimum time, which should actually be the case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr. Minister, have also undertaken to shape the study conditions in such a way as to make the best possible study possible. Minister! These figures prove that you have clearly failed your project. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] It is a fact that study takes longer and longer. The average duration of study continues to increase, and study in the minimum period has become almost impossible. The reason for this is not, however, ladies and gentlemen, that the students would study badly or lazyly, the reason for this is simply that the first thing is that the curriculum and curriculum are too extensive and that the second is that the offer of courses for the masses of listeners is too low and that third, more and more students are being forced to go to work next to their studies. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] You, Mr Minister, have clearly failed on these points, as has been said, and you have clearly failed to achieve these objectives. But regardless of that, the Studienförderungsgesetz primarily pursues the purpose of enabling students to study without working. But reality looks different: Already 50 percent of all students are forced to work alongside their studies. You have to work, among other things, because you, Mr Minister, have not been able to create the necessary framework conditions. I repeat: 50 percent of all students are employed. You, Minister One, said in the Committee that students do so because they want to maintain a high standard of living. I consider this statement to be quite incredible and a ugliness to the students. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Minister! I would also like to say the following: You can't steal so easily from the responsibility here! The students – and I tell you that with all the emphasis – are mainly working because they have to work to finance their studies. It would have been your job to respond to these facts. The trend towards working students requires additional opportunities to link studies and careers. On the one hand, it will be necessary to expand the course offer for professionals in such a way that seminars and other courses are also held at times when working time to attend. On the other hand, however, it is also high time to significantly raise the shortness limit of only about 3 800 s. This is necessary in order not to punish those who take on a double burden because they are studying and going to work. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, I believe that you also have to pay more for the student performance. At the moment, only 1.5 percent of all student funding expenditure is reserved for grants and only 1 percent for grants. This means that only 2.5 percent of the funding is distributed for extraordinary successes in the study. I believe that this is too little, and I believe that there is a need to find more effective or more performance-related criteria in order to make study funding efficient and meaningful.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16195	Mr Rada has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16217	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say in advance that I think that the report on the social situation of students is a very successful report, not only on its presentation, but above all on the content. I am not at all the opinion of Mr Schender, who said he would show a bad picture of the students. Of course, if one only reads the report completely superficially and only leaves it up and realizes that the proportion of working students has increased, it could be assumed that most students are going so badly that they have to go to work to satisfy their vital needs. However, this is not the case, and it is also clear and clear in this report. Many students have mainly indicated their work for the reason that they did not want to give up their profession until much later on, and therefore remain active. A second fact in this context: Many young people are therefore pursuing an acquisition because they want to gain valuable experiences that they later need, after they have completed their studies, because the economy demands or demands practice from the young graduates of a study. A third reason why many young students, especially in areas where the duration of studies is a relatively long one, are recently acquiring is to acquire insurance periods or retirement periods for later retirement. However, it is also a fact – and this is also to be read in this report, Mr Schender – that young students are also pursuing an acquisition because they want to have a higher standard of living. They prefer to live in their own apartment instead of in a student home, and they also want to have their own car. Of course, many want to be independent of their parents. All these are reasons why more and more students are pursuing an acquisition. However, it seems to me to be very remarkable that, as this report points out, there are still regional disadvantages. Since I do not mean the geographical proximity to the study site so much, because this disadvantage can be dealt with very well with student apartments or other accommodation, it is the disadvantages in the feeder area, namely in the secondary area, where many young people do not have the opportunity to come to a matura on a normal, prescribed path and therefore also have to take very great difficulties. Recently, there is God’s thanks to the possibility of getting to study on the path of a professional maturity test. I believe that it must be our every effort to help those young people who want to do so in time for a matura and thus for entry into study. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who has ruled the country in recent years? Who had the saying?]] To sum up, I would like to say that this report shows a positive situation for students, and I hope that if there is such a report – then with another government – we can also draw such a positive picture of our students.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16255	Mrs Dr Brigitte Povysil. She'll talk for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16280	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The "Salzburger Nachrichten" labeled their comment on the social situation of students with the words: "The Bettel Student." I personally did not appear as a beggar student during my studies. So what has changed over the last 20 years? Everything should have gotten much better! The proportion of women in students is currently 48 percent, and in 2001 it is said to be over 50 percent. This means that the degree of university education of women and men is increasingly the same. However, 83 percent of all poorly paid part-time work is done by women. On average, women still earn 20 percent less than men with equal qualifications, and this also affects the academics. Or: Unabated says a study that women would have slept the computer professions – because 95 percent of women use computers, but only one fifth of jobs in the booming and really well-paid industry of the computer industry are occupied by women. Or: Students have about 10,000 s per month available on average, says the report. That is a good sum; I had only 3,000 s at my time of study, about 20 years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This must be shorter!]] But a third of these funds are for housing costs. 43 percent of these funds still come from the family environment, and more than 50 percent of students have to work side by side to be able to finance their livelihood, but the study grants are based on the so-called normal student, as I was, and not on the working student. Or: Less and less people start their studies immediately after the Matura. 21 percent of students live in a fixed partnership, 11.5 percent already have children, 9 percent are married. These groups have a threefold burden: You have to finish your job, your child and your studies. This situation is reinforced by the lack of childcare opportunities. This leads to delays in studying, resulting in financial bottlenecks due to the removal of the study aid. Minister! Promises such as "creation of social justice" and "education for all", that is one side to recognize the change of time and to take appropriate measures, that is another! A look at my personal field of study, on medical studies alone, says volumes: Austria had 18 803 students in 1999, Germany had 10,000 and Switzerland had 615. With 664 completed doctors in 1996, Vienna formed more doctors than all three universities in Harvard, Stanford and L.A. But 3 500 doctors are waiting for the training, and their "inter-camps" cost us a total of 1.5 billion schilling a year. Well, these doctors are driving taxis in the meantime, while they are waiting for their profession. With this policy – exactly with this policy! – the student becomes what the "Salzburger Nachrichten" wrote, namely, the "Bettelstuden", Mr. Minister. And according to "Bettelstudent" to say: "I just kissed her on the shoulder," that's a little too little for the student, because you're entitled to register not only the famous "fachs on the face", but also, by the choice of 3. October documents a very clear rejection of youth for your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16320	Mrs Wolfmayr. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16345	Mr President. Minister! High house! The and the typical students of today are not typical. Because if we are typical of a picture that we have been carrying more or less unconsciously with us for years, and perhaps because of our own study experience or students we know, we look so as to say: Well, that's an average human being, a young person who then chooses to study a certain direction of study at the Matura, before if it's a man, does another military or replacement service and then goes through the study in five to seven years. In the meantime, he lives either with his parents, in a home or in a student home and obtains a scholarship if his parents are unable to finance his studies, and then follows a professional activity that fits his studies. It's a construction, a standard student. Reality looks different. In the winter semester of 1997/98 – I am referring to a report by the ÖH – the proportion of students who pursue a acquisition was already 60 percent, i.e. not 50 percent, as Mr Schender said. This means that every tenth student regularly follows full-time employment, 21.3 percent are part-time and 15.8 percent are irregularly employed. Trend rising. 11 percent of students already have a child or several children and 11.9 percent of them are single parents; this is also important to mention. 22 percent of students work full with children, more men than women. In part-time work, the proportion of women is higher than that of men. It is also apparent from students that women are primarily considered responsible for the care of children, while men can take up their studies more quickly at this time, work more easily by the way, and work faster. I mention this because this can be seen in the context of the topic of "drop-outs", study delays and so on and that on average the age of the students is so often cheated and criticized. In reality, however, these are often exactly as I have just described them. I know what I am talking about, because I know this situation, especially the situation of women with double and triple burden, from my own experience. That looks like: Resumption of studies after a longer children's break and then, next to the studies, part-time work. If I have a child during my studies, most of the time I have to take care of my child’s education alone, I naturally need more time for my studies. However, this should not result in me being automatically punished for it by abstaining from all funding and support. It is rather true that a changed social situation in which we find to a large extent more or less young adults than students who are fully or partly involved in the work, which I think is in principle very good, and which may also have a child or several children, must be more taken into account in the future. Firstly, for all students who want to work in addition to their studies or who also need to, a more flexible framework should be created. In concrete terms, the conversion period for secondary employment should be estimated at one year and the monthly earnings-free limits abolished. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, a number of structural measures are needed to facilitate the conditions of study specifically for women, namely the creation of child care facilities with greater flexibility, the creation of better opportunities to exploit scholarships for women through the calculation of child training periods, the modification or adaptation of timetables in the fields of study which are particularly high in women, greater flexibility by means of the possibility of half-day visits or additions by home or distance studies and, last but not least, the implementation of the requirement of the EIA to pay for all. This would be a great help for studying women with children. At the moment – I inquired about the figures – this would be in question for 300 to 400 women. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So what will be required in the next few years is an educational policy that simply meets the strongly changed social conditions and responds to a changing image of the student and the student as flexible and as unbureaucratic as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16413	Since the Stoneographic Protocol on the debate on the financial statements is now in place in the morning, I shall be handing over to the honourable Member. Kukacka a call for the words "You're a diffamer!"You're a sausage, Mr. Pilz!" [[Abg. Kiss: But he's not wrong!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to make such comments. Mr Kurt Grünewald came to speak. He's been talking for six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16461	Mr President. He's still very much appreciated, Mr. Minister. High house! They know that at least one government party is slowly opening the doors to introduce study fees, and emotions are allowed. I am aware of the fact that emotions due to world views, due to the desire for equality and solidarity or empathy, but also emotions due to destroyed trust are not currently very high in the course. I will therefore refrain from emotions in the speech, because it is enough to quote hard educational and social facts and to say goodbye to myths, fairy tales and prejudices. I think the truth is in the middle. She is neither with beggar students nor with heavy students with swimming pool, but also not in believing that a minister will allocate the budgets himself to be able to do what some of us want and wait for some of us. A Member of Parliament – I do not know the party now – justified a year ago his openness to tuition fees before several witnesses in a high school policy discussion, as follows: Every time I want to go to a disco or a nice place, I have to get annoyed because the students use their cars to occupy the best parking spaces. – Okay, let’s go look for the social hammocks, the doublings, the negotiators and the flanaries. A quarter of the students were already employed before they started their studies. Many percentages have already been mentioned, I only mention one: Only 16 percent of all students can afford to work only occasionally. Everything else is variants that are very hard. A study by the Institute of Applied Sociology of the University of Vienna is about to locate and write 20 percent of students in economic distress. Not every drop in study, but much too many drop-outs, not every extension of studies, but these are far too common, based on this need and the pressure to earn study and living. I appreciate and respect the achievements of the state and its efforts in teaching and research in the universities, and I have also benefited from it myself, nevertheless: Distorting exaggeration and dyeing are not in place, especially if fairness remains on the track in the debate. In most scientific studies, education and qualification are identified as the most important components of the national wealth in modern societies. That is why – and I am really saying this to the ÖVP address – tax-financed investment in higher education, because it guarantees high-quality growth, creativity and innovation. The unsightly, but perhaps so popular word "human capital" was coined for this reason. Do you know that in a current and often reliable study of private contributions to university education, 63 percent and that of the public sector is only 37 percent? Studying also means relinquishing wage labour. The calculated lost income is about 137 000 s a year and is no longer available after another study. "Youth an opportunity!" and "Our future is education!" – I can only give him a melancholic "Hurra!" In the case of a case in point, the Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in the matters referred to it by the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the context of the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of They're all on our pocket like that, it's called. All the currently known fee models – and this must be stated – show, though differently pronounced, clear disadvantages over tax financing. I therefore appeal to you to confront the students you call as beggar students with more understanding, but also with more consistency and to think of those who need this understanding – also for the good of the state and its future. If we did not, we would be less good at Parliament and much better in the casinos of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16515	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16536	Mr President. High house! This report on the social situation of students today is indeed a relatively comprehensive diagnostic instrument for how society has changed in recent years and how this has changed the lives of students. We have clearly followed some principles in recent years. I would like to mention them briefly and say what consequences we have had with regard to improving the social situation, because it seems, at least in the speeches of Members of the opposition today, as if they had forgotten this, even though they were already sitting in Parliament at that time. We have kept access to higher education and higher education open – I can join the words of Mrs Greenewald. We want a maximum and optimal utilization of the potential of talent in this country. It is necessary to keep access to these post-secondary educational institutions open and it is also necessary to ensure that not in addition to the cost of living, which are significant, additional obstacles in the form of costs are added. We have therefore expressed ourselves quite clearly and clearly against tuition fees, because they should either be in a scale which does not contribute to the financing of the system, or would be prohibitive in its effect, i.e. they would no longer allow them to make real use of their talent reserves, as it is not only in their own interest, but above all in the interest of the further development of our economy. We are aware that many students – whether because they live more distant from the place of study, whether because their parents have a not too high family income – are either forced to pursue a job or depend on support from a corresponding study grant, called short scholarship. This report on the social situation of students was already the basis in its preparation phase for a comprehensive proposal for a revision of the Studienförderungsgesetz. This revision was also decided last year and on 1 January. It entered into force on 1 March 1999. I think that is exactly what has been rightly demanded here. Only today's members of the opposition – and perhaps tomorrow's representatives of a government party – have missed out on this, because they are still opposition today and therefore have to be opposed to it. Let me also make a few comments on the questions raised here. On the one hand, Mr Schender pointed out that I would not have contributed to a shorter study period. That's, of course, wrong. It is true that there have been a number of measures, which have some effect, and that not all the measures that act in the direction of shortening study periods are in the direct influence of the Minister of Science. Let me just give you three examples. First: We decided in 1997 a university study law, the function and the task of which is to complete the revision of all the study plans, because we were aware of the fact that the study plans, in particular, need to be revised and the scope of no longer modern content. But it is not only about the question of reworking the content, it is also about finding contemporary methods of mediation. These too are allowed in the University Law of Studies, stimulated and forced, because the University Law of Studies, as you probably all know, forces universities to renew all the plans within five years, in a way that gives the interested parties – i.e. both the entrepreneurs in which the graduates are to work later on, as well as the employees – the opportunity to also take a position on the study plans. The effect has been extremely positive so far. The study plans have consistently brought not only a reduction but also an improvement in support during the study period. Of course: The final result can only be seen after completion of a study. Second point: We have made significant improvements in the funding of studies, which have allowed both the circle of stakeholders and the level of scholarships to be increased. That is to say, during the previous legislative period, we have increased the expenditure on study funding by a total of 37 percent. This is not a small matter in times of low inflation, ladies and gentlemen, and the students know it too. Not for nothing have all the fractions in the previous ÖH election struggle been bragging about what improvements have been made in the funding of studies. It is true that this House has decided with the votes of the majority of the government – by the way also with the votes of the Greens, which was one of the few cases where the plenary debate succeeded in creating a change of opinion at an opposition party. I would like to remember this fact. Let me say another word on the question of work. - Sorry: I have announced a third point which is not in the immediate sphere of influence of the Minister of Science. It is a long-scientific fact that the question of whether students at the end of their studies will make their final examinations as fast as possible in order to finally enter the labour market depends entirely on general economic development. In phases where labour market development is rather not very rosy, students at the end of their studies are more likely to remain at the university because they do not want to experience the very difficult loss of unemployment, but rather to study even longer. This is a fact that is also presented in the life memories of John Kenneth Galbraith: In the U.S., a blockage of the universities seemed to have occurred before the New Deal, and with the New Deal, with the spirit of departure that was created at the time, the graduates suddenly came out of the universities in crowds. If you look at the data now, you will notice that in the last two years a significantly higher number of graduates can be observed than before, and this is related to economic development. Mr. Schender! On the question of whether 50 percent must work, one more word. I think that this report could give you the answer if you look closely into it. Among other things, he also gives the answer given by the students themselves. The claim I made in the Committee that the students are working partly because they want to achieve a slightly higher standard of living than the one they would have depended on only the support of their parents does not come from me, but it is a quote from the replies of the students who have responded to a relatively high percentage. We should not forget that there are a number of very different reasons that lead to this. In any case, a more essential aspect should not be mentioned here, namely the fact that there are many students who are looking for activities during their studies in those fields in which they work later, and I think this is very useful. I can remember from my own study period that it has been the same. Let me say one last thing, because this is always the case in these discussions. It is repeatedly pointed out, in particular by Members of the Freeman Party, that they are more for performance because they need to be required and promoted. High house! Of course, performance is the prerequisite for anyone to be able to take advantage of study funding, because the study funding depends on the success of the study, both the grades and the speed of study. Otherwise you won't get a scholarship! This constant talk of the performance only suggests that only "world champions" would be worthy of being promoted. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of the speed of study, however, is very much also determined by the social background of the parents. Those who have no other worries and have nothing else to do can also make it easier to study very quickly. In addition, to give them a reward would be a redistribution in a direction that we do not, at least, approve of.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16615	I call Mr Martin Graf. He's been talking for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16639	Mr. Minister! High house! I am very grateful for the fact that, in your remarks, you have recently put the performance component into play, because that has so far been too lighted up in the debate. In this context, I would like to congratulate a young, new colleague of mine, the Rüdiger Schender, who not only gave an excellent "young talk" – as I mean – but also completed his studies today by doing the final exam. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He is now a Magister, and I believe that this is already worth a applause, when you see that there are young people who are also politically active and thus also doing a work – perhaps not breadwork – and are nevertheless able to do a study relatively quickly, at the age of 25. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Thank God, I say here and today, there are still such cases. But, in reality, one has to strain a larger frame. Minister! It would probably be wrong to blame you alone or at all for the misunderstandings or the long duration of your studies. As long as you are not ministers of science – you will obviously not be long enough either, I am now saying – that you are actually already having an impact on the studies because of the measures you prefer. So I don't think you can say that, but socialist politics is on the test, and there's something to mention about working students. The Firnberg doctrine – free access to the University of Mass – is in itself a good thing, but one should have taken accompanying measures. However, such accompanying measures have been missing in recent years and decades, and something has come out that we all did not want. After all, as I suppose, we wanted the socialists to be able to study workers' children. But the result, which is becoming increasingly visible, is that suddenly the student has to go to work so that he can study, and that, I think, cannot have been in the spirit of the socialists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There you can see that you may have to re-adjust something in this whole matter. Something surprises me in this context too: That the Greens today are pro-redners on this report, where it has been the left or the green left executive – and this is the reporting period bad – that the students have sent on the road for strike because of the social shortcomings, savings packages and savings measures. The result was as we predicted: This did nothing at all except that the students usually lost a semester of their studies. This executive has included the students. But the Green Executive of the ÖH has written this report, and that is why you are voting pro. It's just about the subject of turning halls in politics. I mean, we have to start in the 3. Thousands of years to think about. Just one thought approach – I have already said it in the Committee, and it must be really freely discussed about thinking approaches also in this country, and I hope that politics and this country will open up in this direction –: When we talk about the social situation of students, we must note that these are adults who have the needs, needs that they also want to satisfy. And then, as I think we are doing at the moment, we should not build the funding of studies exclusively on a social component, which depends on the income of third parties, in this case the parents, but we also need to go much more in the direction of promoting the individual, who is willing to do so, and who is also offered the opportunity to do so at universities – which has been too little illuminated in the debate today – and directly supports, not only indirectly. For many students in this country it is impossible to obtain scholarships because the spatial, logistical resources do not vote because there are also problems with the teaching staff. There are courses of study in which students submit projects and then wait nine months for an assessment, sometimes even longer, especially in architecture, but also in other disciplines. As a result, semesters are lost, and they may lose some scholarship as well. That's where you have to use it. Unfortunately, this point does not show the study of God, but these are the real concerns of the students, and I hope that we will bring about changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16708	Mr Dieter Antonimit has now come to speak of a voluntary time limit of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16733	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am also counting on those who regard this report as very valuable, very informative and above all highly up-to-date, because it puts data and results on the table, which are a few months old, which is not natural for reports coming to the House. I will, because it is really a special challenge for the future, in my contribution also briefly deal with the working students. This is because the proportion of working students is constantly rising and I therefore think that they should be given special attention. I believe that the share of these people is already much higher than 50 percent. I hear – and this can be read here too – that it is approaching the two-thirds border. Employment may and may need to be seen a little more differentiated among students. There are different forms: About 20 percent are regular full-time or part-time, around 23 percent are irregularly employed, distributed throughout the study year. 25 percent of the work is only done by Ferialjobs. But one thing is remarkable: Only 32 percent of students are completely free of work. It has already been said, and I would like to underline this: The absolute majority of working students work because they have to work. There are, of course, very different motives for this. The motive that they need more money, plays with, but is certainly not the decisive one. Many want to be more independent of the family, perhaps it is even necessary to relieve the family from time to time, they want an earlier professional practice and much more. It has already been pointed out. However, considering that it is an international educational priority to go towards life-long, career-accompanied learning, it will be even more evident that higher-qualification will be necessary at universities or in the tertiary sector. It must therefore be said that the path towards open university is correct and is to go further. Hand in hand with this development, of course, the age structure of the students changes, as well as their family situation. We know that every fifth student lives in a partnership, 9 percent of female students already have young people, as we have heard. I therefore believe that, as part of the autonomy available, universities will respond on the basis of these results, in the direction of measures to be put in place, towards more flexible offers in order to improve the compatibility of studies and careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16781	Mrs. Dr. Gertrude Brinek is now speaking. She'll talk for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16805	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A few final words on the report on the social situation. That the typical students, who are the typical students today, has already addressed my colleague Wolfmayr. We now want to continue to work on the interpretation. I do not mean, as Mr Greenewald's ORF says, that studying is a victim. I believe that studying opens up an infinite opportunity to get an opportunity for the highest possible, best possible qualification for the professional path, but also for an identity development and personality education that is hardly found in Austria and elsewhere in the European field. The Austrian taxpayers pay a lot of money for this at the same time, and 230 000 students benefit from it. We should not underestimate this and speak poorly through a possibly careless interpretation of the students. I am very grateful to Mr Rada that he has also opposed this. It is more important for me to interpret how one can deal with the student patchwork identity, with this original biographical self-development in which one works, studies, lives in partnership, once again the one, once again the other, and nevertheless does not care about those opportunities that can arise through the rather traditional fast study. We know that students are older in Austria in a European comparison, and this is because of the self-elected work, but not because they have a hunger cloth, but because they want to keep themselves independent from the parents' home, with the general sociological development, because, as a nice student has said, they want to live occasionally in a housing community with parents, but not from the parent's soup pot. That is, thinking about the dangers and remedying the dangers arising from this modern form of life, thinking about the reduction of study thresholds, is recommended so that we improve the drop-out situations. A former rector described these untypical biographies as quite positive, precisely as original biographies, which the economy is increasingly asking for. We carried care at the University of StG by fixing part-time students in a first form. We did not say exactly what we were doing. The students have – the report shows – answered what they want: they have no accompanying study plans and study offers for the professionals, because this would limit their choice and, indeed, be based on an old work plan. There is certainly a need to make a differentiated staff plan in the field of universities. A student central secretariat with all services should keep open until evening hours, but not every department secretariat must be open for 40 hours a week. For study funding and access restrictions in the European comparison: The view abroad shows that in almost all countries of Europe there are access restrictions, interestingly also for the "high academic countries" of Spain or Finland. There is a relatively high self-performance of the students, a high academic rate and access restrictions. Nevertheless, the real barriers are in access to them. As you may know or do not know, Austria has access restrictions for some studies, such as for the field of art. There the professor of architecture at the University of Applied Art says that the economy can only tolerate two architects, so we only allow two. In medicine, as the colleague Povysil pointed out, no one says: We can't just have a few hundred medical students less than the Federal Republic. Therefore, there are then more unemployed or taxi-driving physicians than taxi-driving graduates of the art universities, direction of study architecture. What do I want to say? – We cannot make it so easy and say that access restrictions or access conditions keep certain layers away from studying. We know from the European comparison, for example from the report "EURYDICE – Key Topics in Education" that these are other factors that can be summarized under the term "socialisation". The non-natural access to the book, the non-natural access to the educational institution, the non-natural growth in a continuing training environment. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Selective middle level!]] No, that's not the solution, but the reflection on how we learn how to transport and apostrophize study as a positive gain, and how we can reduce these mental barriers, which are built up in the early school age and reinforced in the parents' home, as we can reduce these barriers. Austria must, in order to be able to exist in international competition, work on further development of the academic rate and on improving the efficiency of universities, but not at the expense of the students. – But this is another story, another report that we will discuss another time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16843	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Gisela Worm. She has limited her speaking time to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16867	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has often been the talk of the students who work today, and I am very happy about it, because that is not a matter of course. It wasn't a subject two, three, four years ago, even here. And if I heard it at the university, it was in a different context. I really remember with grays – I have already said it here – at an orientation event at the University of Innsbruck when I was said as a young or middle-aged woman because I had taken this second educational path behind me: If you have a job, you don't need a place to study. And now, it seems to me, that this unspirit is no longer in the universities, I think it is important, and something has already been done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if there is talk of this typical student, who is actually not a typical student at all, no flutter student – always talk in between! – who makes himself a beautiful life – although it would be desirable to be able to make a beautiful life between 20 and 25 years of age, because this can also lead to further development –: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Always talk in between!]] This typical student is more rare. What we now have is more a student, a student who works nearby or also has a family. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: As a taxi driver?]] Also as a taxi driver or driver. But to come back to the subject of the report: I am proud that many things have been successful thanks to the awareness of the workable students. It will be clear what we have already known, that more and more students are also working, partly wishing to be active. I wanted to be active, for example, because it is important from a certain age not to lose contact with the profession. It is true that precisely these students have now been particularly encouraged, even if they are not yet included in the report. For example, it was decided – a very important achievement! – that there is funding in the final stage of the study, and that is important for those who often have to take more time during the graduation phase, for example for a diploma thesis. This is an achievement that will still be grasped. At the end – the time is scarce – I would like to point out something that has also been successful in the last legislative period and was also important, because, as we have often mentioned, we have seen that more and more students begin to study later. And that has a reason. It is often justified that the students were previously employed that they had an alternative access to education, for example, the second course of education through the evening schools, through vocational training examinations. That is a good thing, and I am therefore very glad that despite the consolidation packages, we have succeeded in not starting to promote a study at 30. But this is up to 35 years old. ==References====External links== That wasn't easy. Her then scientific spokesman, Professor Lukesch, had to be very convinced. Similarly, it has happened to us in the anchoring of sexual harassment in the University of StG; sexual harassment should also occasionally occur in female students. I wish, Mrs. Dr. Brinek, that in any government constellations that will arise in the future, with your pursuit – I know you – you will not stay on the road with your quest for an educational policy that allows very many students access to a study.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16933	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Andrea Kuntzl. She's set to 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e16958	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On a day like today from the position of a social Democrat to discuss such an excellent and informative report, of course also leads to a little balance, which has become out of essential objectives that we have set ourselves in recent years. In connection with universities, one of the main objectives of the Social Democrats and Social Democrats was to create the same participation of women in the education system. And if we look at this report, we can see that one of the most important developments in the rapid pick-up of women in this field, in education, was one of the most important developments. If we look at the development of women in a year beginning to study, the proportion has changed from 1970 to 1997. Since the mid-1980s more women than men have started studying, and with the number of graduates we are approaching the 50 percent mark. Despite this real success story, I do not, of course, want to say that we have reached the goal. On the contrary: It's still a lot ahead of us. If we look at the drop-out rate: This is still higher for women than for men. The higher you get in university, the thinner the air for women. And that's changed! The glass ceiling for women also belongs to the university area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned by Members that one of the main results of this report is the recognition that the proportion of students who have a child has increased significantly and is now about 11 percent. This is, of course, a fact that, although the proportion of men is about the same level, the female students are much higher and taller. As the care work, which continues to burden child care work more strongly on the shoulders of women, the fact that a child is to be given during the study is a higher risk for women to take a break in the study or to have to stop the study at all and become a drop-out. So measures are required here, and some of them have already been taken. We need to continue along this path. In the past legislative period, it has been imposed that not only the present service, but also child care can give a little breathing time and can nevertheless continue to receive study support. In autumn, the Federal Minister initiated a very dedicated, ambitious project, which is now at its beginning and whose goal is the expansion of childcare facilities for university members. There are already the first pilot projects. The Members of the Freedom Party and the People's Party have also mentioned this. What does that mean? Is that all of course? On a day like today, I would like to call you, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party and the People's Party: Don't just talk about it! Take part, now at the stage of the government negotiations, so that such measures are further financed, further supported and not terminated, because they enable women to continue studying, to have time for themselves, to get time for study! Unfortunately, in your parties, quite different models are discussed, models where women get money to stay at home and no longer have time to take care of child care during their studies. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: To be able to study!]] [[Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl and Mag. Trattner: That's not true!]] This would increase the drop-out rate instead of lowered. Please turn on! Prevent You have already been negotiating these projects from today and tomorrow!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17012	As the last speaker, I would like to give the floor to Mr Kurt Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17054	A brief correction and explanation, which is important to me: Mr Graf has speculated that I would have specifically approved this report, although I would have been on the road with the left executive earlier and because I was now required by the left-wing green student executive to change my opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I didn't say that!]] That's about what I understood. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is a misinterpretation!]] A misinterpretation? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That the Greens agree is a miracle!]] [[Abg. Fischl: That can't be!]] I'll explain to you: First of all, there is no problem with our minds and no high density in the executive, as it may be found elsewhere. – Point 1. When, as a result of the savings package, all the groups at the university suffered properly, perhaps with the exception of the professors who suffered less, which has angered me very much, I admit – I was on the street with all the groups – it may be that there were also some of your friends there. But that is exactly what this report shows mercilessly: He points out how the situation of students has changed as a result of these measures, which did not come from a minister now sitting behind me, but from the Federal Government, which had the effect. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Court of Auditors report shows this mercilessly, and you do not agree!]] That is why this report has an appeal. It shows defects and shows what to do to fix them as possible. - That's one. Point 2: I need a long time to get angry. But if I hear now, I would have said that the whole study is just a victim, that's an unfair package. I have said regarding the student image, which includes not only bet-students, but also noble students – and one who is not far away from you has said that study fees can be introduced because he does not get a parking lot in front of the discotheques and Nobellocals, since there students park their cars – said that study also means victims; that it is also pleasure and opportunity, I have never disputed. But it also says victims because statistically – these are sober data – it is clear that students, when they promote, pay back to the state what he has invested in them, to a great extent. The fact that the share of private investment in education is 63 percent should also be clear, and that is a small victim – even if only the parents bear it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is therefore closed. I assume the rapporteur does not wish to conclude? - That's the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of this report III-16 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. 6. Point Report of the Scientific and Research Committee on the report (III-17 of the Supplements) of the High School Council in accordance with § 6 para. 2 Z 7 FHSTG on the activity of the University Council in 1998, presented by the Federal Minister for Science and Transport (20 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17204	We're coming to the 6th. Agenda item. As the oral report has not been reported, we are immediately entering the debate. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Leopold Schöggl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17237	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pity that, due to the lack of time, the other reports already discussed in the Committee, namely the university report and the report of the University Curatorium, could not be done today, because then we could have completed this university matter and would have been able to complete the era which you have actually initiated and which is now ending. In a way, reports always have the touch of the past. They're just reports of the past. What is missing and is always summarized in a few sets in the end is the outlook for the future. That is exactly what we here in Parliament should discuss much more often, because we should deal with the future and much less with the past. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The importance of reforms in the area of structure and, above all, in the field of ministerial structures shows the way in which the High School Council is employed. It is true that we have experienced a perhaps last flickering of the proportion here and that it may have been very difficult to find people for the University of Applied Sciences who actually have the right ideological orientation. This has gone so far that this body, whose term of office has actually expired in the previous year, has really been brought to the limit of its ability to work. Now, however, we have a high school council, and I think that the chairman, Mr. Universitätsprofessor Rauch, whom I personally know, will be a committed, competent and objective chairman. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Has this been a proportion occupation?]] – Probably a real pro-poor crew! [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: How? I would like to have explained that now!]] Well, you know what camp he's supposed to be; but I don't think he's clearly going to be accountable to that camp. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: This is primarily an expert, isn't it?]] I hope so. - That's him. I said that, and I confirm that. But we can then continue to discuss this. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, one can call the establishment of the technical universities a successful project if one subsumes here that the interest continues to exceed the offered courses by about 2.4, considering that the current graduates are well accepted by the market and that the 46 courses have been well established and thus become an important part of the post-secondary field. Quality assurance measures, consisting of peer reviews and trouble-centered interviews, have also been put in place, as well as the participation of students. What is still missing is an evaluation by the customers, that is, by those who will then be the graduates of the higher education courses in their companies and their employers. Another point is that, as it seems, the funding of the courses can also be maintained. If it goes after us, we'll make sure. We confess to the high school courses, to their further development and to the provision of the necessary funding on the part of the federal government. I believe that training, vocational training, is a good investment in the future. In the future, however, it will be necessary to redefine the role of universities and technical universities in their relationship with each other, whereby we believe that the university will be more concerned with the focus on scientific qualifications and young scientists and the technical college with professional qualifications. Of course, we still lack – and this is an essential criticism from us – important points in the direction of evaluation. For us, it is incomprehensible that evaluation results should not be published. Maybe they're starting problems. It is also not possible, as the report points out, to sign promotion contracts in good time in the event of renewals. That would have to be possible. Finally, the spectrum is being extended far too hesitantly to the social and medical professions, as this would correspond to an old liberal demand – I recall requests in the last legislative period. The path of structural adjustment must, as I said, be taken. If, in the medium term, those courses of training, which meet the criteria of the University of Applied Sciences Act, are converted into higher education studies in order to have a uniform structure, then if you want to, you will have a reliable partner in the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17307	President. — The debate is closed. Erwin Niederweiser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17331	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The speech of my predecessor was really remarkable. One has actually had to ask the question why he was reported as a counter speaker. These high-school courses and the development of professional universities must be a particularly good thing, that even in this situation, an opposition party – which you are still today – can express so much praise for a development. I can add something to this stand – no, I do not see it negative either, Mr Schöggl, I just say: that must be something very special that we have succeeded here –: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Is that something negative?]] We already have 1 520 graduates with best job opportunities. We have a total of more than 10 500 scholarships in the field of higher education. 55 courses are now – as you have to add the current numbers – and a third of the beginners are professionals and are therefore exactly those for which these studies have been intended. We are now in the middle of the second stage of this expansion, at the end of which 25 000 to 30 000 students should be present at higher education courses. This success story is undisputed. The colleges are a success story, and we are proud of it. To achieve it, we have been successful in a coalition that has been a lot flattered in recent times. We have not left behind any major problems that have not been solved, but an excellent system in which we can really continue to work. We have a university degree programme for which no tuition fees are currently payable. I would like to express this if we take this balance: There are currently no tuition fees. We'll see what that will look like in two, three or four years. That is worth keeping. What I also need to maintain is the fact that the Freedom Party was opposed to the decision of this University of Applied Sciences Act at the time. You mean that's nothing good that comes out of here. This is an attitude in higher education policy, which continues in a number of other examples, Mr Brinek: The liberals voted against the Studienförderungsgesetz if you remember. They voted against the UOG and the last novel. They voted against at the art universities. They voted against the Bakkalaureat. I wonder, What similarities exist in higher education policy between those who are now so in the poor if you have previously rejected everything we have done together with the People's Party? What similarities could that be? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You'll see it!]] That's where I'm excited. Some I know, some of us have heard. A common interest is certainly what the People's Party has called for in the negotiations, namely the introduction of study fees and access restrictions. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You did that!]] That was not on any of our papers, Mr. Graf! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: In the paper SPÖ-ÖVP, there it was!]] You can check everything in detail. We have always rejected these things. What is allowed in a coalition paper, you can't say that here with our own attitude: I would like to see, if you should actually come to a coalition, what perhaps in this paper will be in there about things you haven't seen a week ago, because you just have to compromise and because you can't say from the outset: [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Then you'll understand, won't you?]] No, no, no, What is foreseen here is certainly – and this must be clearly said to the students in Austria – a departure from the university's opening and opening up, which are access restrictions and study fees that stand in the house here. This is certainly not a good prospect for the students. I can assure you from this point of view: We will resist any form of this restriction and any attempt to reverse the opening of universities in this House bitter resistance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17437	Mr Hans Sevignani has now been reported on the floor. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17461	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! In the "Standard" was read yesterday: "The paralysis of the University Council is overcome, the new members are appointed. Now the panel can go back to work and find approval or rejection of twelve programmes which are under way." Mr Niederweiser! They are also Tyrolean MPs, and you would have to work for a tourism country like Tyrol for the tourism branch for a long time. – What did you do for it? [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I need half an hour to figure it all out!]] Since 1994, a university of tourism has been promised in Tyrol. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: When has it been filed?]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: When was this filed?]] It has been discussed since 1994. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: But when was it filed?]] Listen to me, Mr. Niederwieser. It has been discussed since 1994 [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: What the Chamber of Commerce promises, I can't do that!]] The country, the Chamber of Commerce, the Wifi, the Chamber of Workers, especially the University of Applied Sciences, discuss locations, the question of needs, the question of the association of carriers. The country of Tyrol, where tourism is operated and lived, needs this field of education. Ambitious and enthusiastic young people are denied professional careers! It is not possible in Tyrol – so far it has not been possible – to set up a specialist university for tourism. The tourism industry urgently needs people who are well trained or trained for higher management. She too calls after this university. What has happened in the tourist country of Tyrol? Is bureaucratism to blame for the fact that nothing has happened, or are there disputes of competence between the Minister of Science and the Minister of Education? Since the University Council is now meeting again, I am looking for a quick solution for the benefit of the youth and the tourism industry of Tyrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17552	Mrs Dr Gertrude Brinek has now been reported to the House. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17576	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! A preliminary remark in the direction of Mr Sevignani: There are very precise principles under which university studies are approved. It is not enough to be expressed by unilateral calls or by the formation of opinions in the federal state if there are no important criteria. I am therefore in the strict standards and requirements of the High School Council. We know, for example, a course of study in the Styria, with which one dares to go too far and where one meant, under the aspect of "regional recovery" or, as always, one would achieve the establishment of this high-school course, and has forgotten that integration must take place in a far-reaching recovery concept as a whole. Checking So please make your intervention here! The technical universities and courses – most of them still in study – are modern, professionally oriented and scientificly based vocational trainings at university level. I think that in this form they have often been addressed as a success story. They are, and this is also a criterion for setting up universities and other comparable post-secondary education courses. That's good, too, because we don't have the money for double-tracks – nowhere. The technical colleges are pioneers in many ways. They came through their somewhat traditionless establishment and establishment – to be traditionless also means not to have to carry a certain rage in ballast – quickly to prestige and rank. They enjoy this manifest preference, they enjoy the applause, but they also have envys. They may have nearer or skeptical observers in the directly competitive universities that bring their tradition, the ballast and the awareness of the large organization, so that they are not allowed to do wrong in the assessment – not both. The technical universities are pioneers in the field of curriculum quality. Drop-outs are practically non-existent, there is a structured teaching offer for this. Professional universities are pioneers in performance orientation. Entry exams mean that a certain number can participate in this course, and the interesting thing is that this type of "reading", if you want, is not a social selection. I am pleased because in this way simply a hypothesis could be faked, which is still floating in some minds. Professional universities are pioneers in evaluation. A colleague mentioned that he was responsible for publishing the results: We can't do it that easy. And what we can learn from these pioneering schools is that we cannot transfer all learning outcomes one to another. The know-how developed in the field of technical universities and the University of Applied Sciences for Evaluation can be an approach to transfer what is transferable and to continue to work in the field of universities – keyword: Universities and their evaluation agencies, whether this is the university board or someone else. I therefore warn against one-way transfer plans with regard to evaluation results and evaluation methods. Finally, what do I want to say? The colleges offer the opportunity to learn from them. They show us that access restrictions on entry requirements do not have to mean a social selection, that in the technical universities the highest number of non-primary-maturants – which I am pleased to say – is that universities may also make some efforts to achieve the objectives of the universities, but not the typical exclusive task of the universities themselves. Professional universities are pioneers in didactics and methodology. Here, too, it is important to review and develop the things used in the new media and distance studies, and experience that is being gained. I am very convinced that it will succeed in developing this success story in a different state of government, perhaps – you don't know – one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17624	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17649	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The legislator's initiative in 1993 to send a signal or start-up signal with the colleges, I think, has proved to be a good success. However, there are some criticisms in detail. In fact, it was the task of the higher education courses to offer a much more practical and clearly vocational training in a more streamlined and compact course of study than that of universities, thus creating a certain natural and positive competition. But this necessary differentiation in generalist vocational training at universities on the one hand and a very sparsely specific specialization of vocational training on the other, on the other, has not yet been fully achieved, and the necessary consequences of overlaps and restrictions have also not been optimised. But I think critically: One postulates about 13,000 students for the year 2000, if I calculate it very positively. I think that 13 000 students of a total of 200 000 who are enrolled in the universities are relatively small in practice and in the field of vocational training, and I would appreciate that at least one quarter of all students in the tertiary education sector would be involved in this training or would choose it for comprehensible, rational reasons. But we are still extremely far away from this figure. Another aspect that would still be addressed here may perhaps be related to the tourist courses: The Federal Government has certainly wanted greater funding from countries and communities as well as from the non-public sector, especially those in the economy. This share of financing remained far behind expectations at around 40 percent. It is sometimes surprising that even in highly professional training, future employers as beneficiaries of this training are so reluctant when it comes to investing something. What I believe is not going to do, is to take the risk of the state, which you would like to have more and more slimmer if I can believe the economy – and I believe it to be a hundred percent – but then to privatise the profits of profit. That's not a great attitude for itself. Furthermore, the somewhat common development of the technical universities may contribute to the fact that the costs per student are much higher than for students at universities, partly two to a maximum of seven times higher. You also have to think about whether this can make sense. Furthermore, there is also a remarkable supply in a profession which, according to all OECD studies, is considered to be extremely expansive and forward-looking, namely that of the service sector, particularly in the field of social and health professions. The reason for the delaying attitude of the federal government is that the training for these professions is currently taking place at academies financed by institutions, hospitals, countries and communities, and the federal government has relatively little desire to invest in this area again. Another criticism is: There are traditional sex accesses that are overcome. However, the technical burden of this high-school sector is aggravating the problem of the extremely low and almost embarrassing proportion of women. Last: I therefore agree with the report of the High School Council because it shows a credible effort and provides clear, transparent representations of many opportunities and problems. But only for mostly male graduates of higher education schools in general on the "green meadow", far from industry and universities, to install CVs of local and other celebrities, I think I'm missing and expensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17700	President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17721	Mr President. High house! Let me quickly make six more comments on the subject of high school report. First of all, I have heard a little surprised by Mr Schöggl that he assumes that this is, at least, an era that is now coming to an end. [[Abg. Böhacker: Maybe!]] I think it's surprising on the second day of negotiations between your two parties that you already know you're getting ready. It corresponds to what we thought. In fact, it is a little surprising. Secondly, It has rightly been criticised in the high school report – and you have attracted it, honourable Members – that the funding contracts have sometimes been signed a little late in the past. The report refers to the year 1998, and we fixed these shortcomings in the meantime. This is for information only. Third point: They have mentioned that it would be desirable if the health and social professions were to be involved. It's in planning. The interested parties know that, in autumn 2001, the first courses of higher education in these fields are to begin, provided that – Mr Grünewald has just said that – in the meantime, the current health and social education institutions and finance companies will be able not to overturn the costs of the federal government by means of a silent financial compensation, but to continue to finance their part. In the matter, it is highly desirable to go this way. We also agreed on this issue in the Scientific Committee across the political groups. Let me mention a fourth point, which has not yet been explicitly referred to here, but which I consider very important: The history of vocational colleges is extremely successful not only in the development of a new branch of education in the postsecondary sector, but also in the extension of the opportunities for access to higher education so far largely excluded. With the specialized universities, which are often located in the regions and not necessarily at the location of the capitals or universities, it is possible to win circles for a higher education course which would otherwise not have been able to win it without further gain. This is reflected, among other things, in the statistics of both the social background and the regional origin of students. I think that this is a huge step towards a better exploitation of the talent reserves of this country. Above all, it is a step towards more equal opportunities for those who have so far had fewer opportunities of access. In this respect too, the technical colleges have produced a lot. Mr Grünewald pointed out that the total number of students at the universities is still far from the total number he wants, namely 25 percent of all students in the higher education system. Deputies! By 2005 we have already foreseen that 30 percent of the students will start studying at vocational colleges. It will not yet be able to compete with the total number, but this is simply because the 30 percent really do get into the statistics when there will be 30 percent of students for four years. Then we will also have a corresponding relation in the overall context. Even now, the relation of the number of beginners is better than the relation of the total numbers. Let me say one last thing: I listened carefully to Mrs Brinek and I was pleased to be able to follow and agree to very substantial parts of this speech. I would like to see you as a Member of Parliament occasionally as cordial as your report today. In this sense, I wish you all the best in the new constellation!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17759	I call Mr Franz Morak. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17783	Mr President. Minister! I mean, we shouldn't talk around for long, because it's been said quite a lot. This report by the University of Applied Sciences Council is a very positive one, is something that you are very happy to read and which you have to stand for in Parliament. I mean, it's a success story and a result-oriented paper. It is a market-oriented school, which is accepted to a very high degree and is very successful. The fact that the objectives – the Minister has just done – are not yet achieved, but are only to be achieved between 2003 and 2005 is also due to the fact that the whole company is not very old. The facts and data have all been mentioned. I would just like to add to this by saying that, especially in the field of technology studies and studies of the new media, i.e. engineering sciences and so on – OECD studies prove this – we have too few students in Austria. I believe that the high school sector in particular is predestined for closing this gap particularly in the fields of technology, economy, new media and so on. I must say that I have read this whole report with pleasure, especially the wonderful sentence – and this rarely happens to a Member of Parliament – about the "high willingness of the recipients of the high-school courses to respond to the results of the evaluation". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17824	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Dr. Udo Grollitsch. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17848	Mr President. Federal Minister! In order for this success story to remain not entirely in the radiant light, one should draw a short quote from the report itself. It says – I quote –: "The range of vocational education and training courses on essentially technical, economic and tourist fields has already been regretted several times by the University of Applied Sciences. The fact-finding limit limits the chances of applicants, prevents a higher proportion of women in students and the entry of highly trained graduates into additional areas of the Austrian economy and society." If you read this a little more critical, it's a little bit the Quintessence. Mr Schöggl has predicted: We liberals are pleased about the development of specialized universities. However, we must also stress the fact that this was a national compulsion. Because the EU has not only brought disadvantages into the field of training, I am thinking here of the Bakkalaureat situation. We therefore have to owe the technical universities essentially to EU accession. The development itself is gratifying, as the figures show. However, it is also noticeable that the report on the mentioned limitation in certain new areas, particularly those in the social and non-medical spheres. We were promised – Mr Federal Minister, you have just said it yourself – that it should be so far in 2001. However, I have a paper drawn by you from December last year, addressed to our head of state Dr. Haider, in which you write that it is not yet possible to estimate when a "problem solution" – meaning financing – can be achieved. At about the same time, a letter from the German Chancellor Klima arrived in Carinthia, according to which he is pleased that this high school course can be opened soon. There are apparently communication difficulties between you and the Chancellor, which is also indicated in today's newspapers. Federal Minister! I believe that we need a review in this area. In the applications for higher education courses, the professional aspect and the needs were always the main focus. And there is a need for medical and social professions in particular. For example, at the Feldkirchenern project in Carinthia – you meant "Fieldkirch" in this letter – all the conditions have been met since 1996: There is a bearer club, there was a house purchased at the main square, the teacher stands, there is a study plan. Only the consent from your site is missing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Perhaps, in the last steps of this period, you can force yourself to solve the problem of financing, which you have announced is feasible, and to give the Carinthia a university of science to the Carinthia. This report also shows that Carinthia is particularly disadvantaged. Only 5 percent of high school students, compared with the population, come from this state, which is the last place. Help the Carinthians, and do not let the suspicion arise that the assignment of the head of state plays a role in the allocation of technical universities! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17902	Mr Walter Posch, who took three minutes to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17924	Mr President. Minister! It is five things that seem remarkable to me in the high school sector. Notable is the number on the one hand. In the meantime, there are 11 000 students in this field and the considerable number of 55 university programmes. This is a very remarkable and varied development. Secondly, 7 495 applicants in 1998 face 3 095 shots. This number could also be seen critically as a silent numerus clausus. This is also related to the recording capacities, but one can still a little problemize them. Thirdly, The proportion of women is relatively low at 30 percent. However, there are 17 percent female lecturers at the colleges, while at the universities only 5 percent. Fourthly, the prospects for high school graduates are excellent. There were 608 graduates in 1998/99, and each of these graduates or each of these graduates was able to choose between two to three job vacancies. So there are relatively good job prospects. Fifth, the development and financing plan for the technical colleges provides two to two years 2004/2005 with 21,000 places to study. This is at least one third of all students. This has fully achieved what has been expected of this new sector, and it has also occurred what all previous speakers have already praised that the universities have developed very well. I would like to add something because my previous speaker, Mr Grollitsch, is doing wrong legends: It is by no means the Minister who is negatively responsible for the development of the technical high school course in Feldkirchenen, but there are also considerations and uncertainties in the support association itself as to whether the degree programme should be established there. The formation of opinions in this area is not yet complete. As you can come to these claims, I am completely incomprehensible. You were probably only informed one-sided by your own party leader. Since I myself am in this association, the debate in this respect is quite familiar to me. We would also like it to happen. Nevertheless, your allegations have been completely taken from the air.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17972	Mrs Magnès. — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Brunhilde Plank with a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e17996	Mr President. Minister! Taking a position on success stories is in principle gratifying. Many of the facts that have been mentioned in this high school report have been mentioned, and all here in the House can only support them. Some questions that we might ask ourselves remain rhetorical, because it is clear that this training at higher education level with a highly practice-oriented component represents quite simply opportunities for young Austrians. We know that everyone has excellent career opportunities before completing their training; we have heard this several times today. I find it interesting to note that, when the report is carefully read, the number of AHS graduates who choose high school education is very high on the rise. That is, even graduates of AHS, who were generally only able to go to universities because they could not have vocational training as such, have recognized this opportunity. A few years ago it was just a quarter, now the number has risen far to over a third of AHS graduates. I also noticed the frequent comments made that the proportion of women in higher education courses is still very low. – This is clear because the courses of study are obviously too few women-friendly. However, this does not apply to the AHS graduates because almost half of the AHS graduates are already choosing training at a FH, and this is a gratifying trend. The Ministry of Science confirms that only about 3 000 people can currently be admitted, confirming the policy that, for the next few years, the degree programmes and their funding are definitely guaranteed. However, I would not worry too much about the costs. Considering the cost of unemployed people – unemployed academics have already been subject to comments a few times today – you can see that everyone who is trained and certainly finds a highly qualified profession is very, very valuable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I have my problems with a few comments that have been made here in the field of higher education. The concept for high-school education in Austria clearly states that it is also a matter of allowing equal opportunities to apply in Austria. And I would like to thank Mr. Minister One he has also spoken about it. I also believe that colleges should not in principle be established only in university cities or in their vicinity. – If you know the presentation of the distribution of specialist universities in Austria, then you will know that the central area of Austria is practically unscrupulous with specialized universities. In view of this, I think that it sometimes becomes too easy for the University of Applied Sciences to accept a concept or project. Mrs. Dr. Brinek spoke of a location in Styria. Now there is a project supported by TU in Graz, which proves how highly scientifically prepared and worked there. – Perhaps some decision in this respect is still to be considered. It is also about equal opportunities in the regions. This is an important concern, especially when I consider that many students who study at colleges may otherwise be those who land at universities, but do not wish to complete vocational training and study in science and then increase the drop-out rate. I believe that there is a huge opportunity in this context, and this potential must be used, especially in the regions and not only in the university cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18054	Once again, Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Caspar Einm has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18078	Thank you, Mr President. . I would just like to give an information to Mr Grollitsch because he referred to the exchange of letters with his master of state from Carinthia. Deputies! The problem is not the party belonging of your country captain, but apparently the difficulties he has in observing the subject matter of this letter that I have written to him. – I took him on 23rd. December, which are the reasons why Feldkirchenen is not yet promoted. The main reason is that an assessment of the degree course by the College Council has not yet taken place. So far, only one preliminary examination has taken place. The final assessment will take place in the new University Council, and then it will be decided whether there is money for it. As to whether funding can be supported, I have already said that this depends on whether financing clarity is created. The federal government will not be prepared to pay the costs of the country simply out of the federal budget, according to all foresight, even if you are in the government. I will give this answer once again to the head of state, especially since he has informed me today that the country now unanimously believes that something should finally happen here. Information must be provided. I would therefore ask you to report this to your party chairman.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18111	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Science and Research to take note of this report III-17 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. 7. Point First reading: Request of Deputies Friedrich Vergestnitschund comrades concerning a federal law establishing a labour relationship law (AVHG), the Industrial Code 1994, the Employment Law, the Law on the Employment of Workers, the Home Care Act, the Domestic and Domestic Workers Act, the Home Labour Law, the Allowance Payment Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Insolvency Insurance Act, the Night Heavy Labour Law, the Holiday Law and the Land Labor Act 1984, and the Workers' Processing Act is repealed (19/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18160	Now we're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At first reading, we are discussing a proposal from the Social Democratic MEPs, which is aimed at finally giving the 1.2 million workers in our country at the workplace the rights that workers have had for a long time. When the Austrian trade unions under the leadership of the Metallian Trade Union in 1995 put this demand, namely equal rights for workers and employees, in addition to the trade union movement, approved it. The "Action Fairness" was born. Over 300,000 people have supported these demands in the months following that. The claims were in particular: equal pay payments in the case of sickness for workers as for employees, equal notice periods, especially in the case of employer-side dismissal for workers and employees, and equal claims for workers as they have, for other reasons of prevention such as medical visits or administrative routes. Ladies and gentlemen! We are concerned with the equal treatment of workers and employees at their workplaces. It is our duty to enforce the same right because the same right is fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not need any legal differentiation in the broad areas of our industrial society, either because of its qualifications or activity, or because of its position in the process of work. Ladies and gentlemen! Often the woman is at the computer in the camp worker, the automechanic in the workshop, on the other hand, the employee. In this context, we see that there is a floating of the terms and completely different assessments of the appointments. No legal differentiation is therefore a command of the hour. This is also seen by advanced entrepreneurs, but also by officials, I emphasize: some of the officials in the Chamber of Commerce. For example, about 70,000 workers are taken over by their bosses in an employee relationship every year – almost always in the same situation. In the metal industry and in other industries, the economy has been able to establish equal rights in collective agreements. There are collective agreements today that are no longer different between workers and employees in the points I have mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it has not been possible with the ÖVP to eliminate this discrimination against workers. One we would have expected to go shoulder to shoulder with us on this question is the ÖAAB. Although it is strong in the public, in the ÖVP club it is clearly too weak to stand up to the resistance of the economy. If I look at the chairman, Mr Fassleven, then I realize that he has already been told today that if there are important concerns of the workers, he is silent. And I mean, even in the implementation of the fairness action, Mr. Federal Minister, you have not spoken very strongly, except in the public, I admit. There are a number of press releases on this subject, but I can't remember that someone in your parliament club once reported that it was important. I would therefore give you the tax-free title today: "Werner of silence." [[Abg. Kiss: Great!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Tancsits as one of my follow-up speakers will certainly tell us what ÖAAB has done, what he intends to do and how he will proceed with this request in his party. We will, I believe, be able to listen to his speech. The ÖVP proposal, which has so far been discussed in public, was the so-called cost-neutral solution, i.e. in German: Workers could receive part of the benefits of the "Action Fairness", i.e. the longer payment, but for this, workers and the workers should, for example, purchase a deterioration in the right of vacation. Ladies and gentlemen! This is simply social justice made by ÖVP: For all a deterioration, give a little bit to a small group and ultimately get an advantage for the economy. What role does it play or play in this game, which actually went at the expense of the workers and was carried out on their backs, but actually ÖVP Klubobmann Khol? – I am sorry that he is now sitting above me as President and I cannot look at him. I would have liked to say something to him face to face. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Turn around!]] In all the discussions and negotiations that have taken place in this area over the last few weeks and months, he has always spoken against it. He always said: You can't do that, you can't fight the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! But that was not always the case! I have here a list of signatures of the "Action Fairness" from Tyrol, on which a number of ÖVP mandates and sympathizers have signed, which has supported the action: This list is available on 21. Place of one who has said: I would like to be here, and I would like to support this action without reservation. On 21. Position is the signature of Dr. Andreas Khol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What about the People's Party with signatures? What is it like if you work for something and support something? Is one then standing for this signature, or is everything different later? – We have already discussed signatures and the value of signatures today. I notice here: Her clubman supported the "Action Fairness" without reservation with his signature. Only I wonder – and many people in this Republic are asking this: What value does this signature have when it becomes clear during the talks on the implementation of this claim that it will not actually be implemented, and the same can no longer remember that it signed and supported this action? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Dr. Khol! That's not fair! It is not appropriate to work for a concern with his signature and then to do exactly the opposite, to do everything to prevent this issue! As we know, the liberals often apply: First of all, then for that. In your case, it's the other way round: First of all, then against it! Ladies and gentlemen! For me it shows: The Christian-social and conservatives in our country are in a process of adaptation to the populists. I am looking forward to the discussion of this request in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18271	I call Mr Reinhart Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18295	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is significant – if there is already a talk of populism – that today not the top employee representative of the ÖGB, namely colleague Vergestnich, is standing here and presenting the arguments as to why there should be equality between workers and employees, but he was probably populist enough to present the petition or the signatures to the old chancellor and frequent pilot Vranitzky at the time. But here he is silent! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: More frequent is the haider! He can't compete there!]] Either he does not stand behind it – that could be a possibility – or it is in fact so that there must be the improvements for workers in any form. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who pays for Haider's flights? Who pays for Haider's flights?]] If there is economic growth and economic prosperity, then it is good that workers also get a corresponding share of it! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Gaugg, who pays the flights from Haider to Carinthia?]] Now I'm wondering, The signature of Dr. Khol seems to have been in some place during the past few years, because for six years the Federal Government Convention has stated that this equality must be carried out. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who pays for Haider's flights?]] But it is forgotten that there are no longer these occupational images – workers and employees – in the old form. The distinctions in this clarity are no longer possible and feasible. Therefore, it is necessary for workers to get better, to be financial and to be legal – here we are with you! Only: Every time an economic recovery occurs, you are the first to decide the laws that in turn bring burdens in general. As an example, I only mention the building site coordinator. It really does not need people in Austria, but it increases costs, so there is less money for those who are busy there and really have something of it. The new industries – with stock exchange booms, finally also with profit participations, with working hours that are no longer regulated at all, with premiums and similar lucrative things – are no longer included in collective agreements or can no longer be grasped at all. But there are still the old careers in which a worker can still be terminated within a few hours. That's what I'm asking myself: Where was and is the ÖGB? Where are your services for the workers? Where?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You know exactly, Mr Ververtnich, that we still have collective agreements with a gross hourly wage of 72 s. Where have you been during the last years? They have been in power for 30 years now, have put the Federal Chancellor, have always held the Ministry of Social Affairs – and that is the result! We have many hundreds of thousands of professionals who are not even covered by collective agreements to date. They have a lack of professional protection – whether this is the health care service, whether the employee is in the Red Cross. You've only looked at yourself in recent years, that's a fact. Any improvement that could have been made had to be taken back because the Federal Chancellor or the Minister for Social Affairs or anyone was against it. This is your form of politics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] And now you come and say, We need improvements! - I'm already with you. Then let's talk about paying, just as a part of it! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: I'm curious!]] Not about the notice periods, although it is necessary that we also talk about them. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Why not?]] Let's talk about the notice periods! Let's talk about a sub-area. Let's talk about the cash benefits in case of illness! Is it not more clear that both will be treated equally and that both will receive the same fee? [[Abg. Verbatim: application!]] But why not from the social insurance institutions? They're here for it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Contributions are made to social security institutions – they are supposed to pay this! Why is it that a company continues to pay if there is no work? Social security contributions, health insurance contributions and the like are paid. As far as termination protection is concerned, I am with you: There must be improvements. This could depend on belonging to, the service duration, more similar. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But I have to tell you once again, Mr President, because you recently celebrated the 10th anniversary as President: Where have you been in the last ten years?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18455	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Walter Tancsits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18488	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl has previously promised to listen attentively to me. He now has the opportunity to do so so so that I can make some illuminating comments on the "Action Fairness" and its implementation or its blocking. In fact, there are no reasonable differences between workers and employees in two areas, i.e. in periods of termination and in the payment of benefits in the case of sickness or in the case of service prevention. Now, I believe that the question of termination periods is clearly to be solved as a social partnership task. I do not understand that social partnership works then and one calls after the autonomy of the collective partners and the social partners, when one brings together solutions, and calls for the legislator if one does not bring them together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I therefore expect the social partners to come up with useful solutions in the area of notice periods in the foreseeable future. But now, at the heart of the problem, the disadvantage of the worker in the area of payment of compensation in the event of illness: It is not to be explained that the 1.2 million workers in Austria are worse off in this respect than employees. Knowing this, the Government Convention 1995/1996 already contained the wording that a cost-neutral solution on this issue would have to bring the approximation to the payment of compensation in the event of illness. A cost-neutral solution – this is a matter of course when it comes to employee policy. I cannot be interested in increasing labour costs! On the other hand, an increase in labour costs would, of course, lead to a reduction in competitiveness. [[Abg. No more wage increase!]] This would have a direct impact on the labour market, which would have a negative impact on the employment situation. [[Abg. Verbatim: Bravo, no more wage increase! Great!]] In the years 1996 to 1998, when net real losses were known to have been incurred for workers, you, Mr Vergestnich – I take that away from your reputation – would have taken on greater losses, obviously, because you are talking about wage increases instead; in these years, however, it has been negative – instead of agreeing to a reasonable solution on the table, namely the unmistakable advantage for a few who change the job. [[Abg. Controversy: How do you get on it?]] [[Abg. You have said: no wage increases!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For this reason – because of the lack of respect for cost neutrality – there has so far not been a socially justified improvement for the workers. [[Abg. Are you for it or against it?]] Perhaps another recent comment: This 1995 government agreement, quoted by me, has been signed by colleagues from Nuremberg. [[Abg. Kiss: Documentary.]] It has nevertheless been abandoned in the implementation. [[Abg. Kiss: Documentary in word and image held!]] Now, imagine what it would be like to have an agreement for which he does not give his signature from the outset! [[Abg. Of whom, colleague Tancsits, of whom? On the other hand, he has turned to the Wehr...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A brother-in-law!]] I therefore believe – and this was clearly explained in August 1999 by the internal social partners in the ÖVP – that there could already be the compensation for workers in the event of illness for the comparison with holiday quotas in the morning. One last comment, ladies and gentlemen, High House: This position also existed in the ÖGB in the spring of the previous year. But then you have come to the idea that you need an election topic for the workers in order to signal social competence. [[Abg. Kiss: That's it! That's exactly the point!]] You have prevented a social improvement for the workers so that you can provide the SPÖ with an election topic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're a brother-in-law!]] She thanked you with Frank Stronach! Therefore, forget the attitude so far, and carry out with us the pay-up payment cost-neutral, as suggested!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18677	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18701	High house! No question: The "Action Fairness" and therefore the employment relationship law are justified. But why have we not discussed this in this House for a long time? [[Abg. We already have!]] Why did the Labour Relationship Act not exist here in Parliament at the latest in 1999 at the first reading? I have thus reached the question which is not uninteresting, even if it has been swept away like this: Has it not been a little bit about the election topic and less about the concrete enforcement? I was also on the road in the framework of the "Action Fairness" – as many are probably here – and have had an opinion and had to do with works councils that were amazed that the law had not been discussed either in the Committee or in the plenary session. They had accepted this and believed that this must have been discussed for years, just as they - at the works councils, in the enterprises - had obviously been the case. - It wasn't! I am on a point where I think – and I am quite different from Mr Tancsits – that we could have made some changes for a long time. An episode: In 1997, the trade regulation was modernised. I have allowed myself to make a request in which those provisions of the trade regulation which regulate the right of dismissal for industrial workers are deleted without replacement. This was interesting and amusing insofar as the Minister of Economic Affairs and his section heads did not even know that there was this Annex to the trade order, while the Ministry of Social Affairs knew very well about it. But I was told by the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs that it was not unproblematic to simply take it out, that is not going to be easy to delete. That's what I'm asking myself: Where are we? Do we want legal improvement and change? Then the strike goes – of course! This would not result in any damage to the workers in the industry. This is also the answer to Mr Tancsits: There are legal regulations – although only for some of the workers – that regulate the right of termination. These came from 1859, Mr Tancsits! Maybe you can forget that. But you should not forget that in the area of termination we still have to deal with conditions from the middle of the 19th century. ==References== - That's what I'm talking about. To the design itself: I believe that the termination and dismissal rules are quite well regulated. This is quite okay, with one exception: I think there should be the possibility of early retirement even in the event of a change of business. I do not see that this right is not granted that the worker and the employee, when the holding is transferred to a new farmer, will be sold, as it were, like a piece of livestock, although fundamentals may have changed and the worker has also changed. The second point is almost amusing: The post-search day is back inside. You just abolished it with the coalition paper! [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Mr Vergestnich. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. In any case, he was not among the points on which the union came up, but at least in the media has only been reported on the pension issue in this respect. Next point: In my opinion, the settlement system is wrong in this form. The gradual finishing once again, without a gradual growth... [[New call for tender of the Abg. I don't know.]] However, this is not included in the scheme. In the regulation I have read, or in the draft – which obviously has to be an older design – the stepless growth is not inside. I'd like to. Above all, I would like to see that the temporary resolution of the employment relationship can also be the subject of proceedings. This concerns all those cases of educational care and care, in which it is especially important for men that what they have in their hands to be able to afford themselves educational or educational care is more than what you actually receive in the carenz money. That means we are at the karenz money debate, but that would be a different debate. But to make it clear: There are other ways, in addition to the income-dependent karenz money, which could also be discussed, that a clean solution that does not damage the handling as such – that is very important to me – can be used here in replacement. Besides, I think: If the Socialist Group does not do so, I shall announce from our side, from the Greens, appropriate amendments for the second reading or for the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18751	The next speaker is Mr Herbert Haupt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18772	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! At the first reading of the present AVHG, from a liberal point of view, there is some addition to what Mr Riepl said in his opinion and what has then been carried out. I believe that over the past few years, it has simply failed in the ideological environment to finally move closer to the legitimate interests of workers in the approximation of workers and employees in far-reaching areas here in Austria. If one considers that this harmonisation effect has been part of the declarations of the Austrian Federal Government for more than six years, that on the second of my colleagues Fassleven, there are clear statements on this subject from 1994 and 1996 that, on the third, compromise proposals that have been economically neutral have already been on the table, then one can clearly and clearly only say two things: that, obviously, in spring 1999, at the beginning of the election campaign, I give my previous speaker, colleague Ollinger, quite right, on the part of the Group of the Socialist Trade Unions, on the one hand, one was highly stylised on the topic of election, that, on the second, one was no longer interested in an objective regulation on the table and, therefore, finally, the harmonisation effect between workers and employees, and that, on the other, one has failed to bring to this area of freedom into question, on the part of social democracy with the representatives of the Liberal Party here in the House, obviously for ideological reasons of which there is no need for negotiations to bring the existing, re-readable and irrevocable positions of freedom in this area. We have experienced this many times in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Mr Oellinger has quite rightly described this today, but Mr Tancsits has also described it correctly. Compromise solutions were pushed aside because they promised to succeed in the short term. The rightful concern of the workers has remained on the track. But, Mr Riepl, I would like to start quite earlier: Please also explain to me the injustices in the field of contribution rights! Explain I would like to ask you why the workers, who are usually less deserving, have to pay higher contributions and then also have to accept the worse regulations in social security! I wonder why the social-democratic trade unions have never made this question – my knowledge to date – the subject of the "Action Fairness". Is it the standing representatives in social security who prevent them from discussing this issue? Or is it just so that you have forgotten where this inequality in the contribution was originally from? It comes from the increased risk of accidents and accidents at work in this area, which workers have at last successfully fought through contributions to general accident insurance over the last 30 years, so that the justified reduction of these contribution payments has never been discussed there, although the majority of social democrats actually would have to discuss this direct relief of workers and also the direct reduction of the additional wage costs in this area without involving major social policy barriers to the other professional groups. But that was never an issue of discussion, ladies and gentlemen. The subject was the schilling after election results, and certainly not the solution to this long-term overdue question. Let us not forget, however, that the otherwise highly valued woman Minister of the Social Affairs of Hostasch comes from the trade union, who has always expressed interest in this approximation between workers and employees within the trade union federation, because, on the basis of her own structure, the GPA did not actually have the fundamental interest in this question, but was very interested in the fact that in the last four years the Coalition Government has not become the Causa in the social field. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not right!]] Mr President, I would like to mention the statements made by the GPA of the time when Mr Hostasch was still its chairman on this subject. Of course, you yourself also have access to the "ÖGB news" and the respective pages. I would like to ask you: If you doubt my current statements, read the original questions and answers, opinions and resolutions of the GPA that were written at the time when Mr Hostasch was still chairman there. You'll see I'm right.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18812	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18833	Mr President. High house! We are discussing a draft of the Social Democrats on a labour relationship law that is supposed to have the approximation of workers' and employees' rights. But that is not true, Mr Riepl, and you know that just as we do. With this draft, you create a completely new labour law, because you create completely new legal situations in many areas – openly and hiddenly. With this law, you create new inequalities – and you know that too – quite consciously! Speaking of "Fairness", I really don't think that's very fair. However, this draft law is also inconsistent, because you point to the development of collective agreements – even today you have done so – and you have highlighted the importance of collective treaty negotiations for the approximation of legal systems. But what are you doing in your bill? They eliminate the participation rights of the social partners and reduce the possibility of collective agreements in these areas almost zero – read in § 14! However, this draft law is not only inconsistency and unfair, it is also bureaucratic, because it makes the most complicated form of remuneration payment in Austrian labour law a principle for all employment relations. I admit that the ÖVP has been ready to talk – and it is still – it has agreed to seek, find and implement a common solution to the payment of remuneration for workers and for employees, but only a working-law suicide would as a common solution choose the remuneration provision of the employee's law, for that is, as you know, the most complicated part of Austrian labour law, and thus both workers and employers can be treated with disadvantage and unfairness, because the regulation is often complicated and is not transparent for individuals. Or could you, Mr President, calculate this: first full claim, then half claim, half claim and quarter claim, six months and new claim? Who could do this here in the high house? But You want to make this a law! [[Abg. Controversy: Don't get older, it's not inside at all!]] Oh, yes! [[Abg. Controversy: Except 7, for this is a complicated regulation!]] Aha, you have written it literally off the employee's law! Now I'm gonna tell you something: You have copied and written down the employee's law in wide areas, that's right, but now you hear and marvel! – you continue to keep the employee law in force! That's where I ask you: Why do you do that? – This is interesting because it continues to contribute to legal uncertainty and a worker really no longer knows what is going on: this or that! Above all, small retuses are included in the employment relationship law, but I have found that. You only need to read the justification for the employee law or Article 3. There it says: "This federal law applies to service relations..." and so on. "The employment contract status of employees under this Federal Act is particularly important for group membership in organisational law under the Labour Constitution Act..., for the personal scope of collective contracts and for statutory social security." Listen and marvel! Mr President Sallmutter, look down! That was obviously the concession to Mr. Sallmutter. Don't believe this has something to do with fairness, ladies and gentlemen! But if you continue reading, you can see that it is also not very well done legislatively, apart from this small objection or this small problem, that there are two legal bodies being built here. You also have Article 11 and Article 12 inside. Ladies and gentlemen, also those of the Socialist Group, which, as far as I have seen this, has already been implemented. He is still inside today, although the application was made in November. That could be the way to continue the explanatory statement. They also write – and this is also interesting – that the ÖVP is now so far as to agree, and therefore nothing stands in the way of decision-making. – This request has never been the subject of negotiations, you know that too! But we have really tried to find a fair system for the payment of benefits in the sick. Now tell me that it is fair to give vacation to those who know exactly how it is: six months work, two days stay there, cancel themselves, go to the nearest place. The person has a double vacation in a year, but the other ten years work with an employer and always has the simple vacation! If that's fairness, then we're not actually for this fairness you're showing here. [[Abg. Riepl: Where do you live?]] Please? [[Abg. Riepl: Where do you live? You have no idea what's happening in the economy! There the workers are thrown out of the bosses...!]] Mr Riepl, I think I have at least as much idea of the economy as many others here in the house – without wanting to personally apostrophise you now. At least I try to get to know the real situations. I come to the end because my speaking time has almost expired. This draft is not only impracticable – there are also many examples – but is also harmful to the Austrian economic location. You know that the implementation of the entire package would cost around 10 billion schilling if you... [[Abg. No, that's not right!]] Read everything! You are not allowed to read only the passage about the payment. If you read the whole package, you can see that it costs a lot of money. [[Abg. That's not even the Chamber of Commerce!]] It costs a lot of money. New burdens are, I think, not what we need today. We from the People's Party are, however, really ready – and we will prove this to you during the next legislative period – to work for fair conditions for workers and employees, which will achieve alignment. We will also find a fair solution. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18937	No one is reporting on this item on the agenda. That is why the debate is closed. The motion for a resolution adopted at first reading I agree with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. 8. Point First reading: Request by the Members of Parliament Karl Öllingerrund Comrades concerning a federal law governing the Federal Law governing the employment of foreigners (Ausländerbehungsgesetz – AuslBG), BGBl. 218/1975, as amended by BGBl. I 82/1997, repealed (44/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e18977	We're still on the 8th. Agenda item. The founder is Mr Oellinger. He will be the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19001	Mr President. High house! With the request to remove the Ausländer Arbeitsgesetz, we want to deal with a problem that you know very well, but only in the form that you know the problem from the back, namely where the liberals then try to heat up the debate with the saying "foreigners and crime". The fact that it cannot be surprising that people who have been living here in this country for ten years see no more chance than to obtain illegal work is related to this Foreign Employment Act. You, ladies and gentlemen, from this coalition government – and I am still taking the old coalition government into account – are responsible for conditions that de facto no longer exist in any other European country: that people who live here – which you have often brought here – and who have worked here, often after years of employment – where they were previously self-employed, then became independent and then failed in this self-employment – are getting into the situation, here in which they may have been living for seven or eight years, no employment permit, because the Foreign Employment Act, first of all, requires several classes of foreign workers – which are created by the employment permit, which includes the work permit, which is equivalent to the exemption permit, and then to the foreign employees, according to the association laws; thus, four classes of foreign workers are already being categorized – and second, which are just to prevent integration, even for persons and groups of persons who have held up to this country for several years. But it is not only a question of employment, but also of human rights which we grant to these groups. For example, women who are legally resident here in this country, for example, have been prevented from doing so by provisions in the Foreign Employment Act, or are simply forbidden to work here, because, after four years of residence in Austria, they are allowed to apply for employment permits or a permit of exemption at the earliest, in accordance with the new provisions of the right of foreigners. The same applies to young people. There are foreign young people here in Austria, children of migrant workers who, for example, have come to the country at the age of twelve and then at the age of 16 when other foreign and Austrian youths take up a teaching, are not allowed to take up this teaching because the law prevents them from doing so. They have to wait, just like their mothers. Now, ladies and gentlemen – no matter which party – tell me, let me make it clear to me that the woman of a migrant worker must live here in this country for four or eight years, in the worst case, before she is allowed to apply for employment for the first time after your conviction. It must not work before, has no income and therefore hardly has the opportunity to get out of the family, and therefore hardly any opportunity to engage in language acquisition. Why does that have to be like that? - We don't see that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are immigration quotas that regulate the move. It is also intended to exist – one can discuss the level of these quotas, but that is it, ladies and gentlemen – but not all the provisions that exist in the Foreign Employment Act, but also in foreign law as a whole against women, young people and also against rejected asylum seekers – also these groups exist – which one cannot "export" somewhere because one knows that in the country in which they should be transferred they are threatened with punishment. All these groups, if they are legally resident here in that country, should also have the opportunity to take up employment. Every attempt by your side to prevent them from doing so, and every law that prevents them from criminalizing these people, suspends them from illegal work. For this, ladies and gentlemen, you have the responsibility, because this is a part of the division and exclusion that is creating the very climate that has led to the political conditions in this country. That is why, I think, the demand for the abolition of the alien employment law is more than justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19060	The next speaker is Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19085	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot follow Mr Oellinger's request if I can also understand and add a lot of the reasons he has put into the meeting and have experienced and added a few things in this regard. It may well be that, if a foreign worker who has a work permit and who is doing this work does not receive a salary for two months and then follows the job at the company and the family is without income, the woman does not receive a work permit, although she is sought and a job would be available to her. I therefore believe that sometimes this is really a vicious circle. But I believe that you should not replace the law, but improve it, because I'm just afraid, and I'm going to justify it. So I'm for improvements: Above all, it should be easier for those foreign citizens who live here and have family ties to gain access to the labour market. We should also do more for young people. Here, too, I have already been confronted with various problems. I believe that it will also be essential for foreign citizens to have access to improved qualifications. Mr Oellinger! I'll give you the best of intentions. I also welcome the fact that developments in November, when you made the request, were not yet in the form of an estimate. Among the current signs I am rather afraid that if there is no more foreigners' employment law, the foreigners here will move here to the wild game and we will move towards a modern slave market. It can certainly happen to us that the future majority here in this House will in any case abolish the law and that we will not be able to do anything about it. But I don't want to be the preparer for such a situation as I described it, because that would be a horror scenario for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19125	Next speaker is Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19149	Ladies and gentlemen! The Green request, namely that of Mr Öllinger, or the reasons for this request, is a little misleading: In fact, you just mention in the explanatory statement that you want to amend the Foreign Employment Act in so far as those foreigners who already have a residence permit are also supposed to have an employment permit. I can also win this goal. In fact, the current system is totally reprehensible. If someone stops in Austria, he should be able to work. However, if you look at the application more closely, you notice that you want to completely abolish the Ausländerbehördegesetz. That means: They no longer want to make any difference between domestic and foreign workers, and they no longer have a condition for a foreigner to become employed in Austria at all. [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The right to stay!]] We cannot agree to this because there can be no unconditional and boundless employment of foreigners, because we always have to take account of the economic conditions. [[Abg. Oillinger: The right to stay is the prerequisite! You know that!]] That's what we're done with. We are also going to be absolutely in line with the other EU countries, because other European Union countries also have their own rules for foreign employment relations. In other EU countries, the authorisation of foreign employment conditions is also subject to economic conditions. So, as you imagine, this will not go, I believe. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's what's going on about the immigration rate!]] Do you know what you want – and I think this is also problematic: They want family retirement to be total, and to do so they also want a job permit for everyone who arrives again, because it is then lawful in Austria. In our opinion, however, this leads to unbearable situations and burdens on the labour market. We are also going to be fully in line with the Trade Union Confederation, because it is also feared that foreigners will storm the Austrian jobs. This means that you can talk about it and check whether you can give employment permits to those foreigners who are already staying in Austria and who have a residence permit – which means they are legally present. We want to seek expertise on the extent to which such employment permits are necessary, and then we want to talk about them. But we cannot agree with what you are seeking, namely a complete abolition of the Foreign Employment Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19229	The next speaker is Mrs Ridi Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19253	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned, the request made by Mr Oellinger contains the call for the 1997 Ausländerbehörde Act to be repealed. We believe that in order to protect domestic workers, we also need clear but human rules of play between domestics and foreigners. [[Abg. Oils: Is it human if women are not allowed to work?]] When things went to the Greens, all the people who wanted to go to Austria would have to get a job. That's what I'm really looking at! I also inquired at the AMS in Styria, and a competent expert also considers that the abolition of the Foreign Employment Act is unrealistic. He means that he can also prove this with numbers: There were more than 304 000 foreigners in Austria in 1999 and at the end of December, of whom 230 000 were employed in an employment relationship subject to approval; the difference is not subject to authorisation. It is also necessary to distinguish between foreigners from EU countries and those who do not come from EU countries, and to bear in mind that workers from EU countries do not need this approval at all. I also believe that your request raises many questions formally, many claims are raised, but he lacks the overall view. However, the question of foreign employment will certainly be an important task for the future, whoever forms this government. However, you have to be very careful; a quick shot would certainly not be good. I think that the proposal in this form is not acceptable and must be discussed very well. This is a task of the future government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19289	No one is reporting on this item on the agenda. That is why I am closing the debate. I agree with Amendment No 44/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 9. Point First reading: Request by Members Theresia Haidlmayrund Comrades concerning a Federal Act adopting a General Disability Equality Act (Beh-GStG) (31/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19328	We shall now proceed to item 9 of the agenda. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19352	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to give you a brief account of the fact that disability equality in Austria is not yet a reality, based on some examples and on the results of the working group in the Federal Chancellery. We decided in 1997 a constitutional provision that states that no one should be disadvantaged due to its disability and that the federal, state and local authorities must ensure that the equality of disabled and non-inhibited people is ensured in all areas of daily life. This constitutional provision sounds very good, and I wish that at least the federal government will comply with this Constitution and will no longer adopt laws containing discriminatory provisions from 1997 onwards. But it has remained with this desire that we and the disabled people in Austria had, because not even federal laws have been made and passed on the basis of this provision since July 1997. Of course, they still contain discriminatory provisions, not only occasionally but in almost all cases without exception. I would just like to remind you: It was before the elections that we here in this Parliament passed the Rail Market Regulation Act. This law was quite specific – for all those who can no longer remember – among other things, about the reconstructions of the railway stations. In this law it is said that according to the possibilities – according to the possibilities! – to build barrier-free. The fact that this "measure of possibilities" is not then complied with in practice – we have already attached this suspicion to it at the time – is already evident in today's implementation. Mr. Minister, who you are here right now –: The overall performance of the ÖBB – with the exception of the train attendants, I say now – has certainly not been a positive factor in the transport of disabled people in recent years. That's a lot better. But I don't want to burden you with details now; first, I didn't have the time, and second, I sent you a corresponding request. Or, ladies and gentlemen, I am still coming today – although we have this Constitution since 1997 – through the back door to the speaker's desk, and my seat, which should actually be my seat since October, I can't use until today. I sit in place X – it doesn't belong to anyone – because my place has not been adapted accordingly to this day. I do not want to know whether you, ladies and gentlemen, would not be very grateful if after four months you still had your place going somewhere and not here in the ranks. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that discrimination against the disabled is not a cavalier offence, but, to a large extent, a intentional act, for, for example, in Austria, there are already provisions in the building laws in the individual Länder, which provide for barrier-free design of buildings – especially public buildings – but which are not so. This happens according to the motto: Then it's not done! Bad luck! We have the bad luck of disabled people. There are no sanctions. In fact, every disabled person in Austria must operate disabled tourism, depending on which needs he is not covered in his own state. It is a horror for all those who live and are disabled here in Austria, that you still have not understood that we want to use the same right to disabled people – and it is very easy for us to do so – that you, as non-inhibited people, naturally use for yourself. But we're not allowed to do that! I have also tried to get in touch with individual speakers for disabled people of the political groups and with club members to learn how they are willing to do something about whether they can be won for a disability equalisation law. I don't know who is a disabled speaker at the ÖVP. Since mid-November, I have been waiting for a letter from Mr Foreign Minister and Mr Klubobmann's bowl, in which I asked him to give me an answer to the question of who is at the ÖVP disabled speakers. I don't know. – The subject does not appear to be important in the ÖVP. All the other political groups, and especially you, Mr Kostelka – and I regret this – have said to me: We're doing it somehow, but we can't afford it. – Of course, non-discrimination can cost something, and it will cost something, and it has to cost something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As long as there is no need for a major discussion that for tanks, for armor, for roads and cetera, one spends sums in billions, without questioning what, for so long we do not need to discuss that there could be no money for non-discrimination of disabled people. The money is there, it only has to be redistributed accordingly! All that is missing is your political will to implement a disability law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore ask you to really consider whether in Austria we need to turn back the clock of time and calculate disabled people according to cost-benefit considerations. Such action should actually be a thing of the past. We are citizens of this country, and we want our legitimate rights! You, ladies and gentlemen, are therefore invited to finally grant disabled people their rights and to establish them by law. It is not enough if you make repairs of individual laws – you can do that, too, that is not a disadvantage – because what we need is a federal uniform disability equalisation law, because only by doing so do we have disabled people the chance to achieve a piece of equality in Austria. We cannot accept this equality, and we will fight a great deal for this equality. We'll fight until we reach them. You can't expect you to push us back. We're coming in, rolling, and we're not going to stop!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19441	I interrupt the session for a few minutes to clarify a question and ask the four chairmen to come to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19465	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mrs Silhavy is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19494	Mr President. High house! Mrs Haidlmayr! It is not until July that we dealt with a request from the Liberal Forum, which was still in this House at the time, which in a very comprehensive way has pursued the same objective of adopting a law on disability equal treatment. If I remember correctly, you and I were the only political representatives of this House who were present in November last year at an OAR survey on the same subject, namely equality of people with disabilities by law. I understand the objective of trying to get a total equality law and not to adapt individual measures through the revision of individual laws and to prepare them accordingly. On the other hand, and we will have to deal with your request in a very detailed manner with the content of the Committee, you know that we have already discussed several times that such a law of equality, as you propose, is not only enough in the competences of the Federal Government, but also, of course, a shift of country competence into the federal area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] This is clearly clear, and this is clearly reflected in the request. I think that makes the situation difficult and very questionable about the possibility of implementation. At the time I also said to the survey that I still believe that the steps from my point of view would be more feasible if one made a repair in the individual legal matters. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Where is the difference?]] The difference is, of course, that one can make more appropriate adaptations in individual legal matters. For example, let us look at the construction regulations – you have made this very clear in your request –: In general, the construction regulations have to be adapted by federal law by establishing that all public buildings and also private buildings, provided that people work in them or stay in them – that is, in the case of guest houses in which they are to be eaten – have certain facilities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I was just about to say that! I am just telling you that the competences will be shifted from one country to another. That's what I wanted to say before. This is, of course, also a question of budgetary impact, and it is a question of transitional periods; I give you the right to do so! [[New call of the abg. Haidlmayr.]] That's what you're saying! Your proposal states that it is difficult to estimate the costs. There is also no cost assessment in this application. I mean, if you talk about it, you should talk openly! I think or at least hope that you'll take away from me that I'm really very hard. I can imagine how it looks when you actually feel discriminated in everyday life, because you have to do it permanently with barriers, partly with access barriers, and with other obstacles. I think the barrier-free construction – I want to stay at this point now – is a point that will actually benefit much larger groups in society at the end of the day. For example, I think of every parent or grandparent who rides with a stroller. There are many barriers and obstacles that are a disadvantage to many population groups. I would also like to stress this here. That's why I think we need to find a way. We must put ourselves together and not only be allowed to deal with this in the Committee, but we must really consider how we can achieve effective implementation as quickly as possible. You have said correctly – and this also calls for your impatience – that we have corresponding constitutional provisions to and for ourselves, but their implementation in the future is too slow for you and probably for all other people with disabilities. We adopted some measures before the end of the previous legislative period and discussed them in detail at the plenary session in July. I can therefore save myself from repeating this, because all of them have already been concerned with the subject matter of these innovations at that time. Mrs Haidlmayr! It's nice when you say: You roll on, you don't have to stop. I think: Lobbyism is something whole, very important. But I hope that we can work together with you on this lobbyism in that we really come up with constructive solutions in the sense of those people for whom you have made the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19557	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19578	Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker, I would like to say: I think it is a bit bold or inappropriate, or whatever, to talk about lobbyism when it comes to people with disabilities trying to put their urgent needs into practice. I think that is really the wrong expression! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] By the way, I would like to say: I am very much in favour of a general disability equalisation law, or an anti-discrimination law, and not of regulations in the individual areas, because I believe that this also involves a certain awareness that we in Austria need very much. To go through life as an disabled person is extremely difficult on and on itself. However, if one has to move as an disabled person in Austria, then this is particularly difficult because in Austria much is not natural, which is already commonplace in other European or Anglo-American countries, and it is commonplace to consider the special needs of the disabled and to see all the planning from the point of view of those people who have special needs. The awareness of the population in Austria is also not available to the extent that it is, for example, in northern Europe or in the Anglo-American region. In the USA, for example, disabled people have the best places at events. There everyone must wait in the snake, only the disabled will be preferred. For example, disabled parking places are not used by other people, as is the case in Austria, and if this happens anyway, then the person has to pay such a juicy penalty that he only places himself on a disabled parking lot once in his life. In Austria, on the other hand, using a disabled parking lot is more or less a cavalier offence. In Austria, it is really a further way to raise awareness, and I therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to do something legislative in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would have added a lot, but we have not been able to make any requests today. Furthermore, I do not believe, for example, that all dwellings in a residential building have to be designed in accordance with the rules of construction. Of course, access must be accessible to the disabled, but not every apartment, because I believe that it causes unnecessary costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] What did you say? I didn't hear you! - That's right. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: But I also want to visit my neighbors on the third floor!]] That is also a point of view. I'm sure you need to talk about it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, discrimination is really on the agenda. For example, a wheelchair driver must not drive without a companion, according to the regulation of the subways. That is to say, the provisions say that such persons need to be accompanied. It is also really paradoxical that we have, for example, legally decided to integrate schools, but there are still many schools that have levels and barriers that cannot be overcome. Also public baths cannot be used by disabled persons because there are no facilities there to bring a disabled person into the water or out of the water. The foothills are not, or only to a small degree, slanted. – I mean, there could be many reliefs that don’t even cause costs. You mentioned the insurances in your application. It is not possible to take out a health insurance for a spastic to cover, for example, a possible operation of the osteoarthritis by private insurance. The insurances just don't take him. You can't take that! I am in favour of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection really focusing on the way in which we treat such anti-discrimination law or the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities and how we can really do something good for the disabled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] – I understand Unfortunately, you are not, ladies and gentlemen, and my speaking time is already over. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Let us talk about this in the Constitutional Committee!]] Okay. I don't care which committee, but I think we should deal with it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19653	Next speaker is Mrs Gatterer. – You have the floor, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19675	Mr President. High house! Mrs Haidlmayr is certainly an tireless fighter for the concerns of the disabled. I also believe that we cannot or at least cannot accept from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that laws have been passed in the Constitution, knowingly, since the anchorage of the disabled in the Constitution, to re-discrimination the disabled. I really want to reject that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Look at the law decisions of the last one and a half years!]] Mrs Haidlmayr! Disability policy is an area where there is a constant need to work on changes. The term "sensitisation" has been used today. I believe that we must all be even more sensitive to the concerns of the disabled. In the preparation of my remarks, however, I have withdrawn something we, as I believe, decided in March 1998: Amendment Regulation Extraordinary burdens for the benefit of the disabled, amendment Check-out Regulation for the benefit of the disabled, amendment 20. Road transport novelties, recognition of foreign identity cards and, and, There were a number of decisions in this regard. The amendment to the Federal Care Act was adopted in August 1998. In July 1998 the provision of 500 facilities for disabled persons in the Federal Republic of Germany took place. In October 1998, the Volksbehrengesetz was amended to create technical opportunities for people with disabilities so that they can access the constituencies freely. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: But we don't have that until today!]] In December 1998, for example, there was a novel on the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons, which does not include apprentices in the number of disabled persons. In July 1999, a Federal Law on the Elimination of Discriminating Provisions was adopted in the ABGB. – So there really was a variety of improvements. We have really tried to work on this problem all the time. But I am right that there is still a need for action in many areas. For example, they were even in the Carinthian Landtag: The farmhouse has been rebuilt, but it is still not walkable for the disabled, approachable and accessible. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Isn't that a shame?- Oh, my God!]] - I'll give you the right, that's wrong. I admit that. And I also think it is bad, for example, that risk children and disabled children in Carinthia need to be reported immediately, although there is no immediate early promotion in all areas. This too, in my opinion, is discriminatory. For example, they also agreed that teachers in compulsory education should not be disabled because they will not be admitted otherwise. . I think you should check this case by case. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You must tell your wife Minister Gehrer!]] But I also believe that, for example, the objections of parents also apply when they say that the teacher or teacher, when something happens to a child, must be physically able to help immediately. That too is an argument that has to be followed. As I said, I think you have to check this from case to case. However, I would like to address Mrs Silhavy's comments. If we say that there should generally be a national disability law, then of course we also intervene in the construction regulations. But then we also know that we intervene in foreign competences. That is why I believe that we must not just pass a law on which we do not know how to implement it in the future. It is certainly necessary that we all generally try to take further positive steps in this area. The EIA is in favour of this. As you know, the ÖVP also has an disabled speaker, namely Maria Rauch-Kallat, who has been engaged in this field for decades and continues to be our leading woman in the political scene. I think you should see it positively that a woman who is at the top of the leadership level still represents the interests of the disabled. The ÖVP was always ready for discussion in these areas and will continue to be, and I hope that we can take many positive steps for the disabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19788	The next speaker is Mr Deputies' Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19809	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat what Mrs Partik-Pablé has formulated as an intermediate call, loud from the speaker's desk: Mrs Haidlmayr's allegation that Mrs Frauen Rauch-Kallat is not to be found here in plenary is therefore not justified because Mrs Collaborine Rauch-Kallat has not been entrusted with a mandate due to Mr Universitätsprofessor Bruckmann's preferential voting results. I think it should be respected as a result of the elections. And I would also like to say that due to the disability of her child, Mrs Colleague has always been very committed in this area. I believe that other colleagues from other political groups should not agree on their services in the field of disability. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, I would now like to return to the real issue of today, namely discrimination. I would like to say clearly and clearly – as I have said several times – that, after a car accident, I also needed a year in the wheelchair and crags in order to identify the barriers, obstacles and also discrimination in this area in Austria. I too regret that. A series of questions I have received to all Ministries relating to equality in accordance with the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons in respect of quotas from 1. At least this year, at least I was satisfied that this provisional government had done its best to recruit more disabled people in the Federal Government. On the other hand, however, I would also like to say clearly and clearly that I have been hoping for many years that we will finally have a barrier-friendly equipment for our public buildings. Mrs Gatterer from Villach has already announced this for the Carinthian country house, but this applies to very many federal buildings, also courts and for very many official buildings in the municipalities in Austria as a whole. As early as 1996/97, the Bau/Holz Trade Union called for the potential for expansion in this area to be provided with a work-intensive expansion programme for the disabled equipment of our buildings. In this context, I would also like to say clearly and clearly that I do not understand that, for example, when the tripartite transitions take place, the municipalities are very well equipped with their municipal routes in such a way that the Federal Road Administration acts and reacts rather hesitantly or very late in this regard. I emphasize that there are also many barriers in the field of training: For example, the training of disabled people in the health care sector can be carried out, but if they have the training, they do not offer the necessary practical places for qualification. Today, I have learned of two such cases of hepatitis C patients who have been trained as a nurse in Lower Austria and now have not received the necessary internship in any hospital in order to finally complete their education after two and a half years of schooling. I am also aware of cases of teachers who can be trained, even though they are hearing damaged, but do not let them teach, even though they show excellent results. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we here in Parliament need urgent action in this area! In this context, we are dealing with the abolition of social hardships in many areas, the abolition of barriers, and it is also a question of finally letting the first successful constitutional efforts follow the corresponding legal path so that the rights of the disabled are indictable. This begins in the Krabbelstube, goes over the early promotion and the kindergarten, but unfortunately does not end at the universities and old and nursing homes. Barriers continue to exist. Although it has improved a lot, these improvements are still not satisfactory for a country like Austria with God!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19872	No further words are available. The debate is therefore closed. I accept this request 31/A to the Constitutional Committee. Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions: Request according to § 32e para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19903	I declare that I have a request from a quarter of the members of the National Council to award an audit mandate to the Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions, which has the following wording: "A check of the use of the representative expenses of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky from 1990 until his retirement from this office in view of their economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness." In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, such an audit order must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council, provided that the business regulations are met; in the present case, it is reserved to examine whether the conditions of § 32e para. 3 are given or not given. It is said that a request of this kind would be inadmissible if an audit procedure had already been pending with the Court of Auditors on this subject. The question whether such an audit procedure is pending with the Court of Auditors will be clarified in agreement with the President of the Court of Auditors in the course of the day tomorrow. For business treatment: Mr. Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19935	Mr President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when we created this business law in 1993, we explicitly stated in the explanatory remarks made by Mr Fuhrmann, Mr Neisser, Mr Jörg Haider that this right should be granted to a qualified minority. More recently, this request was introduced by a minority in the last minute on the way to a majority position, in a position of government. The idea is obvious that in this way and The way in which the future qualified minority, the opposition, is to be denied this right for six to seven months. I therefore find this to be highly problematic and remarkable, because the famous control party withdraws itself in this way from the control of the Court of Auditors' sub-committee for at least half a year. This is a spirit that has nothing to do with parliamentary laws and parliamentary practice! That's a white cock!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e19971	We are not going to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure which we have not decided on, but there is the Usus if a group receives the floor that, even without a decision on the debate, an opinion from the other political groups is possible. In this sense, I shall give the honourable Member the floor to deal with business matters. [[Calls.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20002	Mr President. As an applicant for the motion in question, I would like to hold back two things from Mr Kostelka. Firstly, we are currently indisputably the qualified minority within the meaning of the comment on the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, Mr Kostelka, at the present time, it is not possible to see in what direction the negotiations which are going to take place. And I am very keen on the fact that you, my colleague, Mr Kostelka, and my group, claim that we are withdrawing from you and your group a control right as a perhaps future opposition group. [[Abg. Scheibner: It hurts you now!]] On the contrary, Mr Kostelka: You will be able to convince yourself – I am also the chairman of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors – that I am very much committed to the control of this matter and that I will do everything I can to carry out and implement this control task properly within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. I would ask you, Mr Kostelka, not to make any prophecies here. January 2000 should be considered as future options. Rather, I would ask you to keep an eye on the current state of affairs in the House: We are opposition, we are in negotiations, but the results of the negotiations are neither foreseeable for you nor for me. And for me there can be no doubt that the procedure is also in line with the relevant explanations on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20048	We have heard the two statements on business treatment. I have no legal or fairness considerations on the part of the Bureau, but rather I have the Rules of Procedure in accordance with § 32e and § 99. 10. Point First reading: Request by Dr Evelin Lichtenberger and comrades concerning a federal law amending the regulations on road transport 1960 (StVO) (26/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20079	We shall now proceed to item 10 of the agenda. As the first applicant, Mrs Lichtenberger has the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20103	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, i.e. about ten hours ago, a member of the ÖVP asked me if I would not prefer to withdraw this request, because at this time no man would anyway pay more attention to a subject of this kind. I disappointed him. I will not, of course, withdraw this request, for good reasons. This request for a change in the ban on night-time driving is a very urgent request, an urgent request insofar as, in the coming week, a problem will be faced at European level in Austria, which is still underestimated by those who like to talk about the budget and the budget crisis. My request is aimed at establishing on the Austrian motorways and roads, provided that there is a need for a ban on night driving, which no longer knows any exceptions to so-called low-noise trucks. This is for good reason, and I would like to take a brief look at it. When the night ban was introduced, there was a first and then massive discharge for the transited Tyrolean population, at least during the night hours. As you may already know – including those from the flatlands – we have enormous problems with noise pollution for the local population in Alpine valleys when truck traffic is rolling day and night. The population in these Alpine valleys, especially in the Wipptal, but also in the Inntal, does not consist of three to five people, but it is almost half of the entire Tyrolean population that lives in the radio range of the motorway. This population has demanded such a night's ban on night's rest, even because scientific studies have proved that the health effects of a continuous nightly noise pollution, such as a motorway, are enormous and also cause appropriate public health costs. This night's ban has now been imposed with the exception of low-noise trucks. This, of course, has led to a positive restructuring process. The entire truck park, which runs on our motorways today, has become quieter than the original old "rundlings" that were on our roads. However, the number of trucks that are now passing through our country has long compensated for noise relief. That is why an increased night's toll was introduced on the Brenner in 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! This nocturnal toll is now being brought before the European Union. If you – and I would recommend it to everyone – read this appeal, then you will see that this process will not be easily profitable. On the contrary: As experts in European law assure me, it is almost so that it cannot be won. That is, we no longer have protection for the neighbouring population along the transit routes. I now ask in my request – and I hope that the Members of the Committee on Transport will inform themselves of the situation and consider exactly what they are doing – that this exception for low-noise trucks will be deleted in order to finally, as a precautionary measure in a case of the high Brennermaut, have the opportunity to protect the people's night rest on the major transit routes. The application is aimed at the deletion of about six words. With this minor intervention into an existing law, we could achieve an enormous improvement for the population on the Austrian transit routes. I hope that those who say today must not be hindered by economic traffic understand that this is not a disability, but a necessary, urgently necessary protection of the population along the highly burdened Austrian roads, especially in the Alps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20160	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20182	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make three comments on this request. First of all: We are very important to people who are interested in the area and to the community. It is also a matter of ensuring night's rest and taking note of a tolerable noise. At that time, when the exception for the larynx trucks was kept in the law, it was a kind of incentive to achieve that, as Mr. Lichtenberger expressed it, the old "rundlings" were getting away from the streets. This measure has taken effect, because in fact we have changed the fleet with it. There are actually only low-noise trucks at the latest technical level. But we will have to think about what measures we can take to facilitate the people, especially along transit routes. Second comment: Austria, particularly under Minister of Transport One, has used massively in the EU for the ban on night driving and also for the ban on Sundays and holidays, and has so far also enforced it. Austria has, in particular, maintained that it remains national law. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important position, and we must try to continue with our position. Mrs Lichtenberger! Thirdly, it will be important, as I believe, for us to try to move forward with all our strength in the matter of cost-truth. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: We're not far yet!]] It's just that we get cross-subsidisation from the car towards the truck and that finally foreign trucks on the high-level road network do their Obolus. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to assess the work of the excretive Minister Farnleitner, but he finally signed this toll regulation at the last second and thus opened up at least the possibility of coming to a truck toll. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But this does not use us in that case!]] But I insist that we are talking about creating a turnaround, namely that the truck toll is the double instead of 2 s, but for that the absurd increase in the price of vignette, which the ÖVP has brought into this pact, is taken back. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Whom you agreed to!]] We shall speak against it with all our strength, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: And the night's ban? What do we do with it?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will therefore present our ideas to the Committee and discuss this with all the parties represented in Parliament very seriously and will find a way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20265	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20300	Mr President. High house! Unfortunately, I don't have much speaking time anymore, so in a short time: Mrs. Lichtenberger, have you ever heard of "investment protection"? I think a lot should be done. You have not heard of it, for otherwise your request would have been formulated a little differently. You know, it is true that we introduced this regulation in 1995. This also triggered billions of investments. You can't go here and say, as I mean... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: They are all...!]] No, they're not all deserved yet! They all know that calculation in this industry is not so simple and imaginable scarce. Trucks are depreciated in the long term. Please believe me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I simply believe, Mrs Lichtenberger, that you have been too familiar with the economic facts. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Look at the truck fleets!]] But I admit that the noise problem is a problem, there we are d’accord. Only the problem cannot be solved by setting up a dirigistic measure and saying: All this doesn't interest us anymore – general ban on night! - So, I don't think so. Because if one did this in other areas, then there would be a big question mark on investment protection, and no one would trust to invest even a schilling. I do not wish to have this policy. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It has already overtaken technical development!]] We can talk about noise restrictions, we can talk about it, Mrs Colleague, whether the definition of the noise-free truck is still correct, even in view of the increased volume. All these questions are certainly acceptable, and we must have a debate on them. But please don't shoot fast, because these quick shots are going back! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The question already exists forever!]] I would also like to say to you, please: One thing is not: that you are constantly playing out against East Austria, just as you do from the Greens. Then in. We have a completely different problem in Vienna. The Hungarians are driving vehicles up to 7.5 tons, including the Czechs and Slovaks, and are causing the noise there. But exactly these vehicles you have left out! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The others are driving too!]] I would therefore ask you to look at the requests a little better in the future before you submit them. Then something is going to come out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20414	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20435	Mr President. High house! Mrs Lichtenberger! Their applications will not be better and will not be convincing the more often they are made. Just two years ago, Mrs Petrovic made the exact same request. We found it too easy and rejected at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] We're going to reject him today. Just write down all the requests again after two years, bring them back and let them vote again, although nothing has changed on the basic issue – this is done quickly, but that does not make anything better and, above all, nothing more correct, Mrs Colleague! That is why we cannot get rid of the request either. You have rightly said that the number of noisey motor vehicles has increased by the constant renewal of the fleet. That's right, but that only shows that the measure was correct at the time, that the freighters responded to the fact that they changed their fleet and that the trucks became cleaner, more environmentally friendly and less exhaust gases. This is an important and correct progress! Indeed, the European Union is calling for and promoting this technology, and it is calling for even more low-emission and low-noise trucks to be placed on the market by increasingly stringent emission standards. What would mean a general ban on night driving? – A complete congestion of traffic in the morning and in the evening when professional and commuter traffic is at the height of all of this, and a much stronger load also throughout the day. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The colleague said that already at the time, and that has not been the case!]] Finally, the argument of noise reduction by your proposal is not really correct. For scientific noise studies have shown that passenger cars have practically the same noise levels as trucks at 60 kilometres, as the Constitutional Court has already found in one knowledge. This is why the maximum speed on the Inntal motorway was set, namely, 110 km for cars and 60 km for trucks at night for low-noise cars. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Take a lap...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are the facts on this issue – beyond all the green transport ideology. You can't pass these facts, there's nothing to manipulate. By the way – and I say that again – your request is obviously unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court of Justice has already, in its knowledge of December 1991, abolished the general ban on night-trafficking on trucks on the Loferer Bundesstraße as unlawful and found that the inclusion of lärmar-märmar trucks is contrary to the principle of equality for the following reasons: first, because the fans were able to rely on the current legal situation when buying lärmarm trucks or when converting them to low-noise trucks, namely that they can also drive them at night. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have you read the reasoning at the time?]] Secondly, the Constitutional Court said: The inclusion of noise-free trucks in the night-car ban does not result in any additional protection of the population and the environment against passenger transport, because passenger transport with 110 kilometres is as loud as truck transport with 60 kilometres, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: On the Loferer Bundesstraße!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] These arguments and findings are just as true today as they did a few years ago. That is why we clearly reject this request because it is clearly unconstitutional, because it is a traffic policy coup of first order and because it corresponds to a totally unrealistic transport ideology.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20541	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. The remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats: 3 minutes to this day. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20562	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lichtenberger, I just don't understand how you can at once feel called to be a traffic expert. Have you ever been on the burner with Mr Gurgiser, and now you are the boss and know at once what's going on in traffic? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've been watching you all day. You get into it at every point in the debate, as if you had invented traffic! That can be, please, not! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I didn't invent the traffic!]] Imagine that you are on the way to the south-east dance in the early morning, when all the delivery traffic is added to the morning tip. You drive in the traffic jam – that'll probably be like that all day – with your car always ten meters away and can smell the diesel clouds. Is that what you want? Do you want this for the flatlands? That's what you said: We're the flatlands, whether it's sausage, we can breathe it in. – It is simply incomprehensible to me that you can find out here and have absolutely no idea how this really works with traffic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where do you get the right to do this? I would like to know. You have absolutely no idea, the last time. I think the burner is your favorite topic at all. Why is the burner unconstitutional? [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The Brenner is not unconstitutional!]] Because the EU Costs Directive simply does not work! I cannot simply demand the double, because this is contrary to EU law. This has always been known in Tyrol. I also know that in Tyrol the money is on the side. Because you will have to repay all of this – that is true – because the doubling is not legitimate. This has nothing to do with noise and so on. Because you write in the noise arms: Maybe they're not allowed to drive noise-poors over the burner? - They can't drive at night. But you write this in here! The application alone is insane! You have no idea! You don't know what you're talking about. I really need to tell you this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20628	No further words are available. Maybe I should find that the burner is certainly not unconstitutional. - But that's just by the way. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I agree with Amendment No 26/A to the Transport Committee. The agenda is being completed. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20673	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Pilz and comrades to set up an investigation committee on the influence of the WestLB on the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Franz Vranitzky. The application has now been distributed so that a reading by a writer is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20741	A debate on this request was not required. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on this request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the above subject. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request to Dr Pilz to give their approval to a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. The next item is the debate on Mr Pilz's request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry on intervention and money flows in connection with the award of arms procurement contracts. This request has also been distributed and therefore does not need to be read. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20828	Hiezu has been called for a debate. We are therefore going into this. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, each group has a speaker with a speaking time of 5 minutes, with the applicant being able to provide an additional explanation at the beginning of the debate, for which a speaking time of up to 10 minutes is available. In this sense, I would like to give the floor to Mr Dr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e20855	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals are against this committee of inquiry because they already feel as a government group. [[Abg. Scheibner: We already heard that!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party are against the Committee of Inquiry despite Wolfgang Schüssel, but because they are still and soon again a government party. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's a diffamation!]] And the Socialists are also opposed to this committee of inquiry because they are still a government party and have not yet fully agreed that they will soon no longer be a government party – it may still be – and, of course, there is always the question in the room whether there is a parliamentary revanche. We're for the investigation committee. In particular, we are also in favour of an investigative committee, because this National Council will eventually have to have the right to examine political responsibility and official responsibility. We have many years, more than a decade of a former grand coalition behind us, who has also lived to assure each other that there is no way to investigate in this House in an investigation committee. Now it was our idea that a change of government – even if it otherwise does not fit us at all – could create a little more freedom here, perhaps – even if from social policy to women's policy, from peace policy to democracy policy everything is unsympathetic – at least here a little bit more space and scope. Obviously, the opposite is the case. This has not yet been done, that a still opposition party is already showing a government discipline, as it has not even possessed the ÖVP in some early stages of the second coalition. [[Abg. Scheibner: But in animal protection you have...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Just no envy!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: If you ever believe something, then...!]] So, now we come to the facts. Mr Scheibner, I have already slowly felt that, if we really look into it, we would also encounter some sort of freeman. [[Abg. Scheibner: What was the animal protection activity? Excuse me for the accusation of animal protection!]] I wouldn't be surprised by that matter. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have heard today still Vice-President and Foreign Minister Schüssel, in a pose that seems very familiar to me. [[Abg. Scheibner: Excuse us for the accusation of animal protection!]] From the government bank: Endless slanders, no facts, nothing to investigate – that was a Déjà-vu! I can remember that here a little further left is not even, but five times, eight times in a row, a Minister of the Interior Karl Blecha stood and said: I'm not going to let myself be offered without any defamation, nothing in it, absolute nonsense! A Foreign Minister Gratz, and, and, and, Then, at some point, we were able to convince a grand coalition – or at least one of the two parties – that this needs to be examined. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Please come to the truths!]] We shall come to this very point, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: We're waiting!]] We shall come to this very point when a foreign minister, not only in Austria, but also in the Federal Republic of Germany and Canada, is increasingly burdened day after day and week, and says one by one, as the arms dealer Schreuzel has already said The contacts with the armaments firm have been made against the statements of the Foreign Minister. [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] – This is already documented. The entries in the notebook – let us say it carefully – are unclear. But when you read it from behind, first clarity arises. We'll be at the front sometime. When you read it from behind – "03.09.94 Wiesheu wg. Schüssel S 100 T 30 M 25 K 25" – then we already know today with great probability what "K 25" means: the offer to a Social Democratic Party Secretary, 22 million towards the party, 2 million towards person and 1 million as "kickback" to put on the table. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That's 25 million schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Very nice, to the Socialists! Who collected this from you?]] This is documented in the course of a court proceedings. This is documented by a file note that Federal Chancellor Vranitzky received from his secretary on his table. This has long been clear and proven – just as it is proven that this Social Democratic Party Secretary has stood up and said: No, thank you, not with me!, rejected this bribery attempt and made it possible to start reading this line from behind. There are already indications of what "T 30" might be, but that needs to be examined of course. And it will be very exciting what "S 100" is. It will be very exciting in the context when, in the period in question, 90 million schillings are suddenly too much in the ÖVP party, whose origin cannot be clarified at the moment. It's going to be exciting, ladies and gentlemen, and this has to be examined simply and simply! There is now an investigation committee anyway, and Dr. Schüssel will have the opportunity to make statements before this investigation committee. This one has only one beauty mistake: He's meeting in Berlin. So it was at the Kurdish affair, so it was with some other affairs: In Germany, it has begun to clarify both judicial and parliamentary matters. It was always just the rest of the question, the remaining question for us: Is it also possible for us where it really happened to ask these questions in a committee of inquiry? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Where are the facts?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! Mr. Null-komma-acht-Kukacka! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The facts, please!]] It doesn't matter how loud you clear out of the benches...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21078	Ladies and gentlemen, please! - Go on!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21106	No matter how much you try to resist any kind of parliamentary investigation – I say once again to you from this place: Your Vice-Cancellor, Partyobmann, Klubobmann and what he is still – and perhaps future Federal Chancellor – is carrying an expiry date here, and this expiry date is: parliamentary and judicial investigation. You will vote with three political groups again today. However, there will be fewer political groups, because social democracy will soon ask itself what it is actually doing for her to constantly vote against a bowl investigation. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: Are you sure "S" doesn't mean Stoisits? "S" could mean Stoisits!]] At some point, the liberals will also surrender, and then we will be given this committee of inquiry. The only thing I'm looking forward to is who the Austrian People's Party, next to Foreign Minister Schüssel and Minister of Defense Fassleven, who should be involved in the whole affair in a similar way, will be the next fruitful witnesses. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP and calls to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: This is an evil assumption! Why do you put something like that?]] In any case, I am looking forward to the day when, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this National Council, we shall be able to address the first relevant questions to you. Thank you for your attention. We will make a few more requests. We'll meet again in the Investigation Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21164	The next speaker is Mr Otmar Brix. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21188	Thank you very much, Mr President. High house! It is already a special piece that is being presented to us today in the form of a party's political opinion, namely that party which, until recently, until a few days or hours ago, has repeatedly announced that it is the party that is clear and clear, and wants to control it. [[Call to the liberals: Are we too!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Right!]] But if you are acting as a government party tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, in the next days and hours, you will close the gate just before that, so that no one can see and a large opposition party will then have no more chance to check something out in this republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: How do you want to know?]] [[Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer: Are you a light-seer?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] The Freedom Party has prevented any democratic policy measure for the next half of the year, with this request "set up the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors", which will allow a large opposition party or even the opposition to be held here. [[Abg. Young: Au! Crocodile tears!]] That's 'democracy policy'! [[Abg. Scheibner: You just have to say that!]] These are not crocodile tears, Mr Jung, but that is what we have expected of you, namely that you have never taken it seriously with democracy in this House! [[Abg. Scheibner: You have broken down everything that has come from us over the past 13 years!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You've put everything down, and now you're getting up where there's not even a government yet! You're still in the coalition pact!]] Yes, and that's why you take control so "seriously"! [[Abg. Aumayr: For decades you have rejected all investigation committees!]] This too must be borne in mind here: that the chairman of the Subcommittee is a man of the Freedom Party, namely, Member's head. [[Abg. Aumayr: For decades you have rejected all investigation committees!]] And do you know, ladies and gentlemen, the High House, what happens in the next few weeks? – A member of the Government Party shall hold the Presidency on control in this country! Friends! Ladies and gentlemen! If this is all right, then I do not want to stand up for democracy anymore! – Yes, you can all scream: [[Abg. Jung: Is it okay that all investigation committees have been rejected?]] This is the new way of the FPÖ to shout down all. . We will provide the arguments for this, and I believe that we have the better arguments to make. [[Abg. Scheibner: What has been in recent years? You've prevented every control!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Empty papers have you given us in the last committee! Empty papers! That was Hohn!]] You should not rejoice too early, and you should not praise the day before the evening. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: I have always said that you should always expect to be an opposition party!]] Because if I now make the request of the Greens, and if I read daily in the newspaper, in which donation scandal, in which the sister party of the Austrian People's Party, namely the CDU, is around, and every day the name "Schüssel" appears, when I see that the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" presents one sentence after another against the Foreign Minister and he has not sued the "Süddeutsche Zeitung" to this day, then I would say that in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, we will also review the representation costs of Mr Vice-Kanzler. [[Interlocutory calls to the EIA and to the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Aumayr: And the Chancellor!]] He's already on it anyway. [[Abg. Young: And the President of Parliament!]] Has You are not reading the application? Although they signed it, they did not read it, but it is not new either. . We will extend this request to determine what it has to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not yet agree with this request for an investigation by the Vice-President and the Foreign Minister, then only because we still want to wait a little bit for the thick material that will certainly still come from Germany. But the clouds are already so dark, so dark that this is likely – unfortunately God! – will become one of the largest scandals in this Republic. As in other words, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be explained that – as in "NEWS" of 20th century. January 2000 is noted – and at one time the income situation in the EIA has changed? The ÖVP – so writes "NEWS" – must have had around 90 million schillings in 1994/1995 more in the cash registers than its two major competitors SPÖ and FPÖ. [[Abg. Young: And how many millions have you advertised?]] "NEWS" also writes in this issue: Although the ÖVP was already financially very marod and had to sell its Palais Todco, it soon afterwards had a lot of money again. [[Abg. Scheibner: How many millions do your ministries have advertisements in the newspapers?]] – This will become interesting when we will check all of this! [[Abg. Kiss: Absolutely closing!]] I say: Do not praise the day before the evening, for the hour of truth will still beat these two parties! [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21495	The next speaker is Mr Wolfgang Jung. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21519	Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! For your soul's pain, I still have a certain understanding: They are still very thin-skinned and just have to get used to the hard bread of the opposition bank. But that's still going to come. You'll have enough time for it. [[Abg. Scheibner: ( towards SPÖ) For 13 years I have experienced your stories!]] On the other hand, I have little understanding for the crocodiles of colleagues Brix, because you have prevented any effective control here in this House for 30 years, and you feel that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I also have little understanding of the arrogance, cynicism and the appalling remarks of colleagues Pilz, who have not yet understood that he is no longer in the city hall in Vienna. [[Abg. Scheibner: On a cabaret stage!]] But you will still learn to do so or perhaps even get into trouble in your own club with this method. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] A committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, is an essential instrument of this House and a very important parliamentary instrument, especially for the opposition. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Actually!]] We are willing to strengthen the rights of the opposition. You'll notice that. Dr. Haider made that clear yesterday. But [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But!]] This requires a responsible approach to this instrument, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Save us with this hypocrisy!]] The establishment of such a committee of inquiry requires attention, Mr Van der Bellen, and no inflationary treatment with it. We remember from the past how many committees – from Omofuma to the Kurds and, and, – you have required. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The liberals never asked for one! Never at all!]] We would have to do several legislative periods if we were to deal with it. It also demands – and this is most important to me in the matter – responsible handling of the accused. For such an accusation means – and I say so very seriously – an essential burden for the person concerned, as well as a court procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: My God!]] Even if he is acquitted, something remains to be done – and you know that very well, Mr Pilz! With this method you want to work here. But not with us, Mr. Pilz. Yes, you laugh, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: The state-bearing boy!]] I know what someone's doing. I wasn't yet Member of this house, I read suddenly in an evening edition of the "Kronen Zeitung": "Party of the army: Is the bomb brain in the Army News Office?" [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Really? That's interesting! A little more about it!]] – Your friends were all involved in this whole campaign! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Of course! Bring the files with you!]] I remember calling home and saying to my wife and to my children: Don't get upset if the police attack the house! [[Abg. Scheibner: That was terror!]] That was then under the leadership of a socialist Minister of the Interior, who with the greatest enthusiasm had caused such measures! Yes, Mr One! You will soon be sitting with God on the government bank – you haven't been a minister of the interior for a long time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I know what that means. I also know – at least almost – what this meant for the people who really touched it, who were put on their heads from bottom to top and who then might be damaged in a small village. [[Abg. Scheibner: Terror is that!]] No one ever apologized to them! That is why I am responsible for dealing very responsibly with these methods, ladies and gentlemen. You, Mr Pilz, have so far remained guilty of bringing much more than one page from a notebook with a telephone number. I also know – and I am quite aware of that, Mr Pilz – that in this sector, as in all areas of major business – construction, airport Vienna and so on – is lubricationd. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Aha!]] Not in principle, but it is common. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Aha!]] Only: Before you push this into someone's shoes, you have to get out more than this one page from the notebook of a criminal person. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does that mean?]] That's too little! We demand a minimum of facts here. Until then, the presumption of innocence is valid. What you've brought up so far is not enough. We will come with you if you present real evidence, but – to talk to colleagues Ofner –: This soup is still too thin. Only about your "profile" neurosis – or should I say: "NEWS" neurosis, Mr. Pilz? – to support, for this we are too good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21793	The next speaker is Mr Karlheinz Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e21817	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In 1994, there was a highly successful Minister of Economic Affairs, Wolfgang Schüssel, who, in the course of a military mission in the order of 1.3 billion schilling, managed to land compensation operations to the extent of 3 billion schilling at the time. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Will privatize Schönbrunn!]] [[Call the Greens: 100 million!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: A madness!]] Meanwhile, the resulting compensation transactions have even grown to over 4 billion schilling 270 percent increase in this business, 270 percent compensation for this army mission, thanks to the initiative of a very successful Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Ladies' stockings!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Have you ever checked what that is? The entire volume of trade... in women's stockings!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Now I don't expect the opposition to praise it. That's just not happening with us. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who is the opposition?]] But Mr. Pilz is obviously the career of Mr. Schüssel so much a thorn in mind that he now – knowing that the Ministry of Economic Affairs was in no way responsible for selecting the equipment – gets into the dirt cube, according to the motto: One throws dirt once, and then one screams: Look at him, how dirty he is! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Riess-Passer.]] 'Cause here's the motto: Something's always hanging. – What evidence will be provided, ladies and gentlemen? [[Call to the Greens: You heard that at Habsburg too!]] As far as you are concerned, Mr Pilz, I have the feeling – towards FPÖ – that perhaps something will come out of your mind. They interpret an abbreviation "K 25". [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does that mean?]] They say that in the Federal Republic of Germany there are "instructions" on connections to bowls. There are "claims", in the reasoning of the request – claims of media – "the clues increase". This soup is not only thin – as Mr Jung has already said – it is in fact not present at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I can only say to Mr Brix that he did not fail to get involved and suggest that media reports should be quoted and used as evidence: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You think you can judge that?]] Mr Brix, I am really disappointed with you! [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Jarolim and Mag. Worm.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But back to you, colleague Pilz. You've now gotten into this dung bubble, you've thrown around yourself with dirt without having any evidence – according to the motto: There's going to be something going on. You just overlooked one thing: If you get into the dirt cube, you get dirty yourself! Look Once in the mirror: What's going to be See you there? - It's a dirt-fuck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22002	The last speaker was Mr Kogler. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Business treatment!]] [[Call: There's no call for order.]] [[Further calls.]] Please, Mr. Dr. Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22047	Mr President. I call for a call for an order for the insult of Mr Brix.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22075	Mr. Klubobmann! I'll have the minutes presented. I have not heard the insult myself and will decide on it after the record has been submitted. [[Call to the Greens: Nothing seen, nothing heard!]] The next speaker is Mr Kogler. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22107	Mr Firlinger! Did we find the coordinate system again? With the caprioles your party is carrying out in terms of control – all respect! [[Abg. Scheibner: Apologize for animal protection! What about animal protection?]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] The debate obviously leads you to think again about the consistency of soups. I'm just telling you one thing: Some have already drowned in initially much thinner soups, and it will come this time too. [[Abg. Scheibner: A dangerous threat, Mr President.]] You've been soaking the soup bar here! But let us come to the facts that are being asked for here again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Apologize for animal protection first!]] Mr Scheibner. We shall come back to your opinion on this case. – To the colleagues of the EIA on the role of the current Foreign Minister, former Minister of Economic Affairs and possibly future Federal Chancellor: Where to Take From Do you have the assurance of the credibility of Mr. Schüssel? He's already apologizing for breakfast statements that he's said he didn't do at all! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This sentence, too, that a certain Mr. Schreiber is not known – one has never met him, perhaps never seen him – seems familiar to me. He is also from the chairman of a Christian-social party, and he is now – right behind the German-Austrian border – also in some calamities. – That’s for the configuration of the environment. But now again to the facts – and I am only referring to what Mr Foreign Minister has said here today. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (his watch in the direction of the speaker and in this way) Mr. Colleague!]] Just because he made himself so strong for the compensation business he was dealing with – that's right; I don't know why you're always calling in there: do you get the government's business back again? –, is it possible? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Colleague!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Haigermoser, why are you so nervous?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (on the speaker) Why does the man sweat?]] It's on 3/4. It was clearly intervened in August so that the Commission's evaluation was reversed. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why does the man sweat? Axle sweat!]] It is precisely these days that Mr Schreiber has had the entry in the notebook. There are several data accumulations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can only recommend: Think about what you're doing! Whoever believes in coincidences and wants to look at them in a philosophical way is either naïve or bought himself. As I said, The next committee of inquiry, which will be here, will certainly prove this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22304	No one is reporting on this. – I ask Members to take a seat! – The debate is closed. [[Abg. May. Kogler is still in front of the members of the Liberal Group and is replicating on their calls.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Pilz's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-01-26-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00006_d7e22348	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 60/A to 81/A. Question No 261/J to 330/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations is scheduled for 23.10 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
