ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e2937	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all very warmly, please take the places and open the 52. The National Council meeting, convened for today at 9.30 a.m. The official protocols of the 50. Meeting of 5 and 6. ==References== The meeting was held in Parliament's management and remained without opposition and was therefore deemed approved. Members Müller, Dr. Ofner, Fischl, Dr. Antoni, Gaál, Parnigoni, Reitsamer, Arbitration and Ing. Gerhard Bauer. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e2974	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mrs. Dr. Pittermann has waived her mandate. Instead of Mrs. Dr. Pittermann, Mrs. Elisabeth Hlavacin will be appointed to the National Council. As Mrs Hlavac's constituency is present and the person mentioned is present in the House, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula and calling for name by the scribe, the honourable Member will have to do her fishing with the words "I promise". I can now ask colleagues to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3004	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3019	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3035	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can still welcome someone in our midst. We have a delegation from the Hungarian Parliament under the direction of Mr Jánossier, President-in-Office of Parliament, here in the House, accompanied by Mrs Ambassador. – I also welcome our Hungarian guests to the heartiest. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3071	For today's meeting, the President of the Federal Government has announced that Mrs Foreign Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner has been prevented at today's meeting and is represented by Mr Bartenstein. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3092	With regard to the negotiating items which have been obtained, I should like to refer to the communication distributed in the Chamber as a document. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3244	I am entitled to announce that Members Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Pilz and Comrades have made the request to deal urgently with the written question No. 1664/J of Mr Gusenbauer, Dr. Pilz and Comrades to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning Dr. Böhmdorfer, the chief coward and the rule of law, which was put into the agenda. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Red-Green sends greetings!]] In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I shall call on this urgent question to be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3279	Ladies and gentlemen! As regards today's debate, I have the proposal to proceed as follows: Points 2 and 3 and 6 and 7 of the agenda are to be summarized. Is there any objection? – That's not the case. Then we summarize points 2 and 3 as well as 6 and 7. I shall now go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3307	We reached consensus in the Presidential Conference on the following draft agenda: There is now a 9 hour day block speaking time – we have agreed to 10 hours, and if there is a urgent request, then 9 hours; the proposal is therefore 9 hours – which is the result of the following speaking times: SPÖ 176 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green 104 minutes. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then this is unanimously determined by the House. 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on Request 346/A by Georg Schwarzenberger, Anna Elisabeth Achatzund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Civil Fund Act and a Federal Act implementing the Council Decision on protective measures in respect of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and the feeding of animal protein of 4 April 1990. 412 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3349	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. Is there a wish for oral reporting on this matter? - No, then we can go into the debate immediately. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Petrovic. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3376	Mr President. Members of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! Today, we are not dealing for the first time with a request concerning a partial financial compensation of damage to agriculture, to consumers, due to a wrong and responsible agricultural policy. We had other so-called disasters, and the bitterness from the past's accidents and accidents is that real consequences have not been taken seriously, not a hundred percent, towards a change of direction for a new, comprehensive agricultural policy in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens will therefore differentiate in their voting behaviour; that is to say, some of this request – I would add – will be tantamounting, because we do not want small and medium-sized enterprises, which already have to suffer enormous damage to their existence today, alone and without public assistance. However, "thinking" because, if not immediately determined measures are taken, it is to be feared that the next injury will not last long. We have already had too many scandals in the agricultural sector without you having taken any decisive action. Now it's not a scandal, not just an uncertainty, but now we have a problem that nobody knows about – no expert, no expert – how big it is today. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] And this disaster is already different from disasters in the national sense. That's not an earthquake, it's not a flood disaster, it's a man-made catastrophe. The causes of this disaster are called greed for profit, hot fortification by the rulers, and they are called degradation of living beings, from animals to production machines. This has caused this disaster. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] The injunction can be traced back: At the latest since the beginning of the 1990s, the EU's leading bodies and top scientists have known that we may be facing a disaster and that the so-called madry also poses a threat to people. And what happened? It was fought – in every country! In every nation state: There's no problem with us, we're going to be sure! In the meantime, it seems that those who claim to have no problem simply do not examine and investigate very often. Ladies and gentlemen! It was also the talk in Austria at that time – and it has gone through the media, and at that time the Freedom Party spoke quite differently than it does today – that there were Creutzfeldt-Jakob cases in Austria, which were then associated by the doctors with the cattle madman. I can show you the media reports in question. Mr Pumberger gave a very massive opinion at the time. But what was to be heard from individual national veterans, for example from Upper Austria? - There you have maimed! A person would have to eat some 300 kilos of beef at the time – so the Upper Austrian national veteran at the time – in order to be at risk if he was not even protected by the species barrier. – Today we know that it is different: The species limit of prion diseases has been crossed, it can be shown that other animals, including pigs, including poultry animals, can also get this disease, and it appears that the pathogen, infectious protein, is probably far more resistant than it was originally assumed. That is, your concerns: We're going to be sure!, were not true, didn't vote. And it also surprises me how loosely three-digit million sums of money are being put in motion by the Minister of Finance here – in times when we are supposed to save everyone – if you are not at the same time willing to take a step in the direction that we can say at least in the future: With certainty we have banned the danger of future damage! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have tabled a request which is very likely to prevent future damage, because it provides for an extensive declaration obligation. That is what consumers are really interested in: Where did an animal live from birth? How has it been kept: Like an animal or a lifeless machine? How was it fed? How was it transported? How was it slaughtered? – Not the strange EU rules of origin! We want agricultural support to be converted to organic farming, covering the whole area. At present, it is still the case that the large majority of Austrian businesses, about half of Austrian businesses, receive 9 percent of the funding, about 20 000 S per holding. This is too little to live, so these farms can get right and bad over the rounds. And 1 per cent of farms – 1 per cent of farms! – accounts for over 500 000 S per year. This is an uneven distribution, it favors the great, it harms the small structure, and it harms consumers and animals. We also want a change in Austrian feed production. It would now be the wrong step, on the basis of this disaster, to import feed, protein feed from the Third World in a mass way and thus to narrow the basis of life for the people of the Third World. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Edellinger.]] A very last thing – and I am very surprised at that, because the representatives of the government parties, in the event of organised crime, will always be putting on the very serious face and in adjudicating words they will appeal to this House: Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of State, whom I cannot see at the moment – yet! – the Federal Minister knows, and it is good for you to hear that organised crime in the field of agricultural subsidies is significantly higher than in the addiction area. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: (in the place of Abg. Dr. Khol, I'm here, gracious woman!]] More cases have occurred in the area of organised funding fraud in the EU than in relation to drug offences. That's exactly what it was last year – only the cases taken up! – 1 153 documented cases. The number of the dark is unevenly larger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is a so-called circular traffic here: Cheap cattle from the reform states, fed with completely uncontrolled animal meal products, are imported into the EU, also to Austria – Austria is considered as the hub of such mafios meat carousel – and they get other earmarks here, and then they are Austrian quality cattle. And they can then again land with Austrian consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as your fear, Mr Federal Minister, before the collapse of the markets is greater than the concern for human health, children's health, as long as you are concerned, we are able to agree to such requests in no uncertain terms. I say for my part that I agree with such a damage repair for the last time, if not finally determined steps are taken towards organic farming.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3455	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3476	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Austrian Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The political public is irritated. Consumers in this country are irritated, for various reasons: On the one hand, because they do not know what risk it is due to a possible BSE epidemic, but you are also irritated because they do not know who has to bear the costs currently being discussed in Europe or also in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What we experience at European level, what we experience in Austria, is a policy of market intervention and market relief. It is not about the health of consumers, it is only about the market. And all the reasons for this are to be questioned. We Socialists can no longer see this policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The position of the Agriculture Ministers on all these issues makes it clear that you continue to focus on the undistorted trade of agricultural products in the internal market, rather than on the health of consumers in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the issue of cost recovery. Only: This question cannot be discussed alone, but can only be discussed in connection with agricultural policy in Europe, with agricultural policy in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If a dangerous product is placed on the market in Europe, Austria, the Product Safety Directive or the Product Safety Act shall apply. If, for example, dangerous tyres with a production error have to be removed when a recall action has to be performed, it is exclusively up to the company to eliminate a dangerous product – not the taxpayer and not the consumer! In the area of BSE crisis, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is different: The taxpayers and consumers must face up to the failure of the European and national agricultural policy! And that's not true! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In America, the largest recalling action of dangerous tyres is currently taking place. The tyres have to be removed, there have already been more than 100 deaths caused by the resulting traffic accidents. – We are discussing food today. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, I ask you: Why does the taxpayer have to get back here, why not the producers? Where is the 'polluter pays' principle?- Oh, my God! – This is not to be accepted in the long term! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I quote from the White Paper on food safety of the European Commission: "The safety of food begins with safe animal feed. With this sentence in the White Paper, the Commission takes responsibility in an area that has been neglected for decades." – There is nothing to add to it. We are discussing the removal today. We are discussing today the question of how subsidized animal carcasses should be further subsidized. We are discussing who has to take over the cost of BSE rapid tests. We also discuss this, Mr Molterer – and therefore we are irritated – as this derogation with regard to Austria looks like. I quote you, Minister of State. They have announced in a television broadcast that everything is done that is necessary for the safety of consumers in Austria. If, on the basis of the Commission's decision to carry this derogation in Austria, I ask you, Minister of State Molterer: [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: No!]] Where does the precautionary principle remain? [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: Mr Maier! But that's known since yesterday: No!]] Federal Minister! I can only rely on the messages, and I haven't heard from you in the meantime. I would just like to point out that it is about putting in place confidence-building measures in Austria for consumers. These confidence-building measures have not yet been implemented in several ways. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Minimum standards!]] Members of the Austrian Federal Government! The German Chancellor Schröder made a very clear statement in Nice on the future agricultural policy. – I have missed a similar statement from the Austrian farmers’ representatives. Mr Federal Minister, it would have been good if you had made such a statement. I quote: The intention is to say goodbye to industrial mass production and to focus on consumer protection towards a more individual way of production. - Quote. Mr. Federal Minister, where have you been? We would have liked to hear this opinion from you, and we would be very grateful if you would today see the opportunity to present it in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current situation in Europe and in Austria is the result of non-compliance with Community legislation and the lack of sloppy controls in the Member States. It is also the result of the refusal and harmonization of this problem. The European agricultural lobby is behind that. Consumers – that is clear – are increasingly losing confidence in mass animal husbandry and in this form of agricultural promotion. They basically find it disgusting when animal meal is fed to plant eaters. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: Will not!]] We have over 90 deaths in Europe through bovine spongiform encephalopathy. In England and France, there are already the first complaints, complaints of relatives who have lost children or other relatives. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are not careful, this will also apply to us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government has put in place some measures, but from our point of view no decisive measures have yet been taken. They have rejected constructive opposition requests from the government. We will also be bringing forward a motion for a resolution today, a motion which deals with many issues. Mr Federal Minister, there is also a concern that I have already expressed to you. Consumers are insecure and need appropriate information materials on food safety, beef and the risks. We will ask you today, Minister of State, to issue such an information brochure. In conclusion: What has happened at European level in recent years is a "Rinde-meat roulette" by the Minister of Agriculture. One might almost think that European agriculture ministers belong to the group of players. You should be treated or have an advisory service available. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: What? What did you say?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Please note: The bet is too high! This concerns the health of European consumers. We cannot continue to support this agricultural policy, but we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3602	Mr Maier! The Minister draws my attention to the fact that you used the wording "let it be treated". Unfortunately, I have not heard this, but I would strictly reject any form that attacks a minister in a way that is related to medical things – but I must say again: I have not heard it –. The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please. [[Abg. Achatz: There is no such thing!]] [[Abg. Mr Schwarzenberger: Mr President! Are we not going to talk at all?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Deputies! This is linked to the fact that three fractions are reported "pro" and a "contra" group. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But they agree! Petrovic has said that they agree!]] [[Abg. Achatz: They agree!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: I would like to explain this to you, colleague.]] Please, I cannot do anything else if a Member comes in "contra" than to take account of the relevant provision of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, to change between "pro" and "contra" speakers. If then a Member of Parliament is voting differently – we have discussed the problem often – I cannot organise the line of speakers according to suspected voting behaviour. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: To the Rules of Procedure!]] On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3706	Mr President. High house! I note that during the last legislative period, it was in the same process that another party had been elected, then in opposition, that was the green party that determined the abuse of the Rules of Procedure in such a procedure. I would like to stress this: I think it would be a misuse of the Rules of Procedure if we were to report counter, but as Mrs Petrovic has already announced, it would be acceptable. [[Abg. Ollinger: What do you know, how we vote?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Oils: It's huge!]] This is an abuse, and we firmly reject it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3771	Another word on business treatment is given by Dr. Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3793	It is reported as a fraction per or counter. Apparently, in my speech the noise level was so high that even Klubobmann Westenthaler could not listen to me. The Green Group, by its representative in the Committee, has already voted against it in committee and will be voting differently here today. If there seems to be no willingness here to listen, I am also seeking not to anticipate our voting behaviour in other debates. [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3845	In the theoretical case that someone would have the firm intention to vote pro, but is counter- filed for reasons, what we have discussed more often in the previous legislative period is the case. But if a majority of the group is voting counter-attractively, I cannot do otherwise from the Presidency. I'm asking for understanding. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There was nothing to know about the deep rupture of the Greens before!]] Mr Pirklhuber, please start with your comments.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e3892	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! Mr Westenthaler, you have not understood that this is such a far-reaching issue and problem that there are also very, very many arguments and questions within the Greens, which are not covered by the request we are being presented here today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we are taking a different approach, and we also think that it is necessary to have an intensive discussion of the subject matter. This BSE crisis is also a chance, ladies and gentlemen. It is an opportunity to make clear to both the population and farmers, Federal Minister, that there can only be a future for Austrian agriculture: This future is called global ecologisation, and this means developing a clear guide and establishing this model of organic farming in Europe. This is a model that we must develop on a European and global scale. You know that's the opinion I represent. Finally, this crisis is also an expression of the failure of the European agricultural policy. Ladies and gentlemen, what have been the essential elements of this European agricultural policy, as decided in Agenda 2000? – First of all, we have heard that we have clearly committed ourselves to a yes to world market liberalization in food and have thus said to low-cost production. Huge quantities of feed imports are now in progress and are available in the European agricultural model. Mr Federal Minister, this is the challenge of finally reorientating the European agricultural policy. It is therefore my request that you bring in more clarity here. More clarity means: implement at Austrian level. Only then, if we implement here, are we credible in Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is the failure of the Austrian agricultural policy? – I would like to address some aspects here. An example is the feed controls. From 1998 to 1999, we had a significant drop by 20 percent of the – anyway few – inspections of feed, Mr. Federal Minister. Have you now made sure that all feed for animal meal residues is examined across the board? Have you already caused this, Mr. Federal Minister? - I hope so. How many of the feed have been studied for GMO freedom in Austria? – 27 samples – of which 20 were GMO positive – all 27 samples in 1999! Ladies and gentlemen, is the quality assurance in Austrian agriculture? Is that so? Do you see that? Or do you see that as I do, that this is simply not an acceptable state?- Oh, my God! – If we want to carry out quality assurance if we want to ensure a high standard of agricultural production, we must also say that we have an intensive and target-oriented quality assurance concept. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have also repeatedly condemned the non-existent social security. That is why we are also bringing forward a motion for a resolution. It does not make sense that we do not have a cover for investment promotions, agricultural promotions and market regulation expenditure, that we do not set clear limits here, which make clear to everyone that we really do not prevent growth, for example through animal stock limits. I think that's just an hour's commandment, ladies and gentlemen. At European level, we urgently need new, binding, uniform ecological minimum standards! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This debate is to be held, and here we must move on. The current good agricultural practice is too little, Minister of Agriculture! Now let's look at the problem with the animal meal. At European level, our Federal Government is demanding an unlimited ban on animal meal; in your request, Mr Schwarzenberger, a temporary ban. How does that fit in? Explain this to me, please! I'm very curious how you're going to argue afterwards. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister. I would also like to know how many BSE tests have been carried out in recent weeks. How many BSE tests have de facto been prescribed? Why didn't you, like the German Federal Government, cause the immediate universal protection of the quality of beef by means of comprehensive BSE tests? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of your past failures, we are therefore submitting a proposal for an BSE prevention plan. I would like to ask you, Mr ÖVP and Mr FPÖ, to look at the following request. I think it should be discussed, and one should stand up for these demands. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to ask you, colleagues from FPÖ and ÖVP, to take this motion for a resolution. We, or some of my colleagues, do not think that it would otherwise be reasonable for consumers to bear the damage from failure in the agricultural policy and at the same time not to take precautions. Federal Minister! In this context, I have to point out an example that I really think is scandalous. Here I read a message in "The Cattle Breeder", the newsletter of the Upper Austrian Cattle Association. If farmers' representatives really believe they can play down the BSE problem, I think this is grossly negligent. Here this colleague writes in a communication to the members of the association: "BSE is safe for the human being." – You can read it: "This statement I trust to write here with a calm conscience. The evidence that Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was caused by BSE has never been demonstrated." Federal Minister! This is written by a colleague in an official newsletter of an Austrian cattle farming association. That's scandalous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] He also writes: "What can we do about it ourselves?" Ladies and gentlemen, this brings the matter to the fore: "I am looking for all cattle farmers to eat ‘daily’ beef and all possibilities (trimming table, Kircha’s square, etc.) for the advertising of beef, and the setting of things in the right lot. It is only when beef sales are rising again that the situation on the market will improve." Such a wrong picture, Mr. Federal Minister – and this cattle farming association is an institution that will teach you with more money in the budget, while at the same time reducing the precautionary nature of those bio-agricultural institutions that have been contributing for more than ten years in Austria. That's scandalous! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I hope that you will finally pursue precautionary policies and not just symptom control.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4081	Firstly, I note that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Secondly, Mr Schwarzenberger, and five more pro-redners after him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4105	Mr President. My very dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! With this amendment to the Civil Fund Act, we are dealing with the implementation of the measures of the Agricultural Council of Ministers. These measures are incorporated into the Civil Fund Act with separate articles. The second area is that in 2001 funds can be used from the Civilian Fund for the control of BSE. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! The BSE disaster primarily hits cattle farmers very hard. I am afraid that the price decline that we are currently experiencing will result in thousands of cattle farmers in Austria giving up cattle farming because they can only achieve an insufficient yield for years of work. One thing to do here – unfortunately, I am only the first speaker of the government parties after three opposition speakers, who can speak on this topic –: Since 1990, the Austrian farmers have no longer fed animal meal to ruminants in an area for which it has been decided in the Council of Agriculture Ministers for the whole of Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is a precautionary measure which has caused costs for more expensive protein feed in cattle farmers. However, this measure has been implemented by farmers in the interests of consumers and health protection. The Austrian farmers have also had a marking system with a reporting obligation since 1998. Within seven days, each movement of a bark shall be reported. At the birth of a calf, when the calf is resold, everything must be reported when reselling to the mother. Many farmers have already felt this as a shock in the past. For what?, they said. It turns out that this measure is necessary to make comprehensible what has happened to an animal. Mrs Petrovic! For these reasons, it cannot be possible for foreign bovine animals to be imported, carried Austrian marks and then considered as Austrian bovine animals. Here you have to show me the way – this is not because these brands can only be obtained from the AMA and have to be reported to the AMA! What the Green Group is doing here is just uncertainty, and it leads to the farmers being generally accused of fraud. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Not the farmers! The agro-industrial industry!]] It is particularly objectionable if, for example, a farmer's representative Pirklhuber, who is in contact with many farmers, in this sense insecures Austrian agriculture and also insecures consumers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] After these debates, every consumer must feel: The tested Austrian beef can also be particularly dangerous. If the European Union in Europe identifies three zones – a particularly dangerous one, such as England, Ireland and Portugal – and the only less dangerous countries in the EU are Sweden, Finland and Austria – it is significant that the European Union has recognised and approved our actions in the past. In Austria, we have an average cattle population of 19 bovine animals, eight of which are cows, the other being Jungrinder. In Austria, we have only a few feed blenders, which have been regularly controlled on and on, even in the past. In particular, we have the AMA Markets Agency, which is reviewing the EU market regulations that have carried out between 90 000 and 100 000 checks in Austria in recent years, in order to ensure the greatest possible safety. – If you are insecure, you should also explain the other side! I am pleased when the German Chancellor Schröder is now thinking about, because last year he declared before the German Farmers' Day: The Schrebergarten-Agriculture in the Alpine countries – he meant, too, Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg – will have no future, because agriculture will also have to industrialize. – In the large farms of the new German federal states, the agricultural workers there were primarily his SPD voters. For these reasons, he has first and foremost these establishments in mind when it comes to decisions. Another one: Mass animal farming has also been created because of the enormous price pressure on the basic food, of course, from the supermarket chains, but also from consumers who always buy the cheapest product. From a farm with five or six cows, ten or 15 chickens and a horse no farmer can live anymore. This is why there is also a high proportion of auxiliary farmers in Austria. Some 70 percent already have to earn extra-agricultural income in order to be able to dispute the family's existence at all. Here, too, one must start by not using basic foods such as meat or dairy products as curly products in the supermarkets, which are then particularly cheaply praised. So cheap today can't be produced in a natural way. Another thing: In Austria we have a largely comprehensive ecological agriculture. 85 percent of all farmers participate in the environmental programme, i.e. the programme for environmentally sound agricultural use. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: 15 percent not!]] We have also already installed degressions in all national funding, in the environmental programme, in the compensation allowance – in the coming year even with a base amount that will then all farms will receive. Whether the farm is 6 hectares or 100 hectares, it will receive the same base amount, so that the small ones will be particularly supported. But there are also further classifications, about 60 acres, and so on. Whatever we need now is a European protein concept. It can't be that the protein gap created by the animal meal can then be compensated with genetically engineered soya from North America. That would not be in the interests of consumers either. Finally, I put forward the following motion for a resolution after the European Commission had also granted the Austrians derogations from the investigations, because Austria has so far taken so many precautions. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ourselves are again subject to stricter standards than the European Commission would require. But we do all of this in the interests of consumers and in order to gain consumer confidence. In the case of beef or cattle sales alone, the price decrease of 4 s will result in the Austrian cattle farmers having 1 billion schilling of less income – if this price decrease continues – and will therefore be found to be at extreme risk of existence. Many, I fear, will give up the cattle farming.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4194	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schwarzenberger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4218	Mr President. Mr. Minister! To Mr Maier I would like to say the following: He has shattered the limitless trade in food here and has said: This unlimited trade in food endangers health. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's it!]] Yeah, he's right, but I can say, Good morning, Mr. Maier. – That is exactly what we have said before joining the EU, and not just now, afterwards, we have started to lament! That's exactly the same thing we said. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] But you said: The liberals are just afraid. – I still remember well. The fact that Mr Maier now presents us with Mr. Schröder as a illustrious example is really more than funny. This is exactly what Mr Schröder, as Mr Schwarzenberger has said, has just said: These miners in the Alpine countries will not believe they will be able to operate agriculture in the future. – That is exactly what he has condemned, and he has said that we have no chance with our small-scale rural agriculture. But now Mr Schröder has also become minter, and now he is demanding exactly what he actually said three months ago. Mr Maier's statement on the necessary medical treatment of Mr Molterer is self-evident, Mr Maier. But you should at least have so much courage to apologize. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On Mrs Petrovic and Mr Pirklhuber – they are both not in the room now... [[Abg. May. Stoisits: But there he is!]] Excuse me, Mr Pirklhuber! But I would like to say to Mrs Petrovic: We have in Austria Thank God the situation that we do not have BSE case. And I say, We should be pleased about this, and we should not be talking about this, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: It's not about talking!]] On promotion crime and on subsidies fraud in the EU: Yes, we also have the Freeman Prophesy. We have said that the structures in the EU are opening the door to the meat mafia, and that is exactly what has happened. Today's application ensures the legal and financial basis for the implementation of the decision of the EU Council on the protection measures in relation to BSE. The fact that the financial resources come from the disaster fund has its power. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for his willingness, and I thank the Minister for his commitment at European level that these measures are now being implemented across the EU and that Austria goes far beyond that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For Austria, a special scheme would be designed to ensure that Austria does not have to test for BSE for the domestic transport of Austrian bovine animals. However, the Austrian Minister of Health has not made use of this derogation in order to ensure comprehensive consumer protection. In Austria, the high level of food safety will certainly continue to be ensured, in particular by the fact that financial resources are now also being made available.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4316	The next speaker is the Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4337	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to say that for the Austrian Federal Government not only since today or since yesterday, but for many years, two things have been out of the question: that the priority lies in safety for consumers and that there is a fundamental consensus in this country across the party borders, that we feel committed to a particular form of agriculture that takes into account the nature and quality of food. That is why we in Austria – for example only – banned the feeding of animal flour to ruminants more than ten years ago. Therefore, Austria has one of the highest proportions, if not the highest share of organic producers and the highest proportion of agricultural holdings that are obliged to organic farming by far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This investment is the basis for the fact that we still have no BSE case in Austria. You can be assured that we are doing everything that is possible for us human beings to prevent an excess of hope in Austria in the interests of consumer confidence and ultimately the long-term strategic orientation of our agricultural policy. We therefore waive the possibility, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria would have received from the Commission in respect of the work of the past in the Union and, of course, test it all the way. It is also true that, at this stage, the Austrian economy and agriculture do not give up imports, voluntarily giving up because it is crucial for consumer safety and for confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since today it was said that I had an example to take to Schröder: Ladies and gentlemen, of someone – and Mrs Achatz has already said this – who has just recently explained to us that we should finally stop with this skewerland agriculture, because we have no chance of stockpiling anyway, I do not want to give any advice first, and I do not want to compare myself with that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I share the view of many in this House that in this crisis, which exists in Europe and which is not too preoccupied, too beautiful, and which cannot be covered at all, Europe is ultimately faced with the challenge of drawing the right conclusions, the right conclusions for the future agricultural policy and future consumer protection policy. However, I also say clearly that some of these changes can lead Austria as a model and that politics has the task of clarifying the conditions under which such reorientation is possible. This reorientation is possible by asking, for example, the question: What are food worth? that we realize, for example, that non-permanent cost pressure guarantees the highest quality that we recognize, for example, that non-limitless liberalism guarantees the highest quality. – These are questions that need to be clarified, because one is not possible: getting the cheapest and the best at the same time! Those who want the cheapest will not have the best in the long term and will threaten our form of farm-oriented, sustainable agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This debate is to be held, ladies and gentlemen, not only in Austria, but especially in Europe as a whole. Mr President, allow me a personalised final sentence. As one who has been a member of the European Union since Austria, since November 1994 of the Council of European Ministers for Agriculture, and who knows how decisions will finally be made in Europe, but who knows, as Austria, and not the Minister of Agriculture alone, is trying to develop the European Union's policy in the right direction, I reject with all determination, even out of personal distress, statements that are inherent in the fact that European agriculture ministers have to undergo "treatment". I call on this House to respect, even before members of the government, those who require a fundamental tone of dealing with and respect for human beings. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4418	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4440	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! To date, some questions have also been raised in the field of health policy in Austria, for example concerning veterinary controls, in today's debate, which I also want to answer. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Mag. Maier of the Social Democratic Group suggests that his considerations, in the field of diseases – and in the case of BSE – make the polluter principle the basis of the cost-bearing issue a dangerous view of things. What has now been so popular about the question of the cost recovery of BSE in the debate would have been to extend to all the diseases we have in Austria, I believe, Mr Maier, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no majority in the House. This would mean that every sick person would have to pay for his illness even in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle, and therefore that what we have always had in the health field, namely the large community of solidarity, in order to create a solid balance on the cost-bearing issue. I would therefore ask you, Mr Maier, to evaluate your positions, which you have here today in your speech. Also the example from America, the thing with the tires that you have related, is clearly different. In this case, a lack of a single product is a causer; it has been traded that the product has been withdrawn. BSE is clearly and clearly a prion disease, and I therefore believe that from the overall point of view of health care in Austria, the way you have discussed it is dangerous. I do not believe that the majority of your group, who have always called for the principle of solidarity in my knowledge of health policy and for diseases, and who would not agree with the individual principle of performance, would turn away from the classical positions of social democracy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out once again that both Mr Molterer and I have not been tired of representing our positions in the last few days: Austria has a completely different position on this matter than the Federal Republic of Germany and other States. In 1990, Austria became the first country in Europe! – introduced a general feeding ban for animal meal on plant eaters. At that time we were severely criticized, and in 1993/94 this ban was almost abolished, but for good reasons it was maintained in Austria at that time. We therefore have a ten-year advance in plant eaters that we have not introduced to us in Austria what is seen as an infected agent in other countries on the food market for cattle, sheep and goat production. I should also like to point out that, in Austria, more rapid controls on BSE have also been carried out very early than in other countries. With the classical methods of immunofluorescence and histology, we have already started to test our animals in a sample of about 200 to 300 pieces a year, to check the ethnology and disease situation in Austria in 1993, 1994. We started in Austria in 1996 – which would also be imaginable in human medicine – in the event of nervous diseases, in the event of disturbances in the central nervous system, all the deceased in Austria should undergo appropriate follow-up studies and obductions. We have not been able to detect a case of human illness, nor have we been able to see anything in the animal sector until now, thanks to God. We have also set up radical eradication measures in other animal diseases, such as scrapie in sheep, in Austria. I can remember the last scrapie case in Upper Austria: Because of two infected sheep imported from Holland, two flocks were immediately killed and burned; both flocks were immediately removed from the transport and food chain. From the outset, we have also made all possible and impossible considerations regarding contamination of the Austrian market with this dangerous pathogen and have more rigorously suppressed events than our European partners. I therefore also believe that it is fair that the good disease situation in Austria is now taken into account by the derogations introduced for Austria, Sweden and Finland. However, both Mr Molterer and I have made it clear from the outset that we will not be able to test the possibility of slaughtering cattle for BSE for more than 30 months for the domestic market, for Austria, because we simply believe that consumer safety is the more important thing, and because we also believe that the measures taken to control the entire Austrian cattle stock, which is fed to the slaughter, will also provide a clear and clear support for our current view that the Austrian market, as far as it is guaranteed, and the domestic cattle stocks are BSE-free, and thus the advances of the Austrian taxpayers, who will also experience a confirmation and the Austrian goods will also receive a new chance of the future in the European market. The calming down of the Austrian consumer on the basis of the good Austrian situation, I believe, is obvious, because, unlike other European countries, the market in Austria is not as collapsing as the worst options have said, but on the contrary. Even in our southern neighboring country of Italy, we now have quite good chances of closing the gaps left there by the French and Belgians on the beef market, because their products are no longer accepted by consumers, by closing quality beef from Austria at a relatively good price, and by reason of the high quality and the health security of Austrian beef and veal, we are now even achieving the development of new markets as a success of our ten-year effort. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber has also asked for this, and I can now also answer him: In Austria, a total of 1,835 samples were taken between 1991 and 1997, 598 samples in 1998, 802 samples in 1999 and 253 samples in the first half of 2000, 500 samples in November and 100 samples in every day. The country of Upper Austria, as the richest country of Austria, has now been tested for even ten days on the basis of a decision by my colleague Achatz – but this measure has been reduced again by a stigmatized date, because thanks to God there was no positive sample – in order not least to ensure additional safety for consumers regarding the upcoming holidays for domestic products. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I can also add, however, that despite great foreign criticism, I immediately blocked the imports of live drifters and embryos from France. On the basis of the disease situation, my office officials and predecessors also first for Great Britain, then for Belgium, then for Holland, then for Spain, then I finally issued for France, depending on the disease situation and disease pressure, the corresponding import bans for live drivers, so that we could keep the Austrian herds free from disease. These measures did not always remain without criticism, I would say that already, but I believe we can now say that those who remained hard at the time have been confirmed by the disease situation in Europe as a whole. Mr Pirkl bauer from the Green Group – Pirklhuber, I am sorry, it was not intended to horn your name, but it was a mistake of thought! [[Calls: Pirklhuber! Pirklhuber]] You mentioned the form of review. . I attach great importance to the fact that by the end of the year all colleagues from the veterinary field will be taking part in these studies. In general, January 2001 will be carried out in Austria, once again re-training, post-certification and post-qualification, in order to be sure that also from 1 January 2001 onwards. In January 2001, when we are reviewed by the European authorities, the standards in all Austrian laboratories entrusted with this review on their own initiative are such that there will be no one-of-a-kind dispute and that I can guarantee that in Austria these investigations will be carried out according to the highest standard of current science. I believe that I owe it to the Austrian population and to Austrian consumers in the interests of public health. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Something else, ladies and gentlemen, Don't forget the cost-bearing question either. 1 500 S will cost a test, including the transport costs, the transport vessels, which are single vessels, as well as the studies and the expected statistical examinations with the classic methods, because the tests will require a very different test of 0.5 percent to a maximum of 10 percent depending on the material composition and length of the transport and the quality of the removal, but also after climate influence, about the summer months. All of this will cost such a test 1 500 S. If You recall that in today's price for a cow – 10 days ago – from about 28 to 32 s of the proceeds at a cascade weight of 240 to 260 kg, which averages an average cow over 30 months of age, about one third for the test – 1,500 S – plus the normal cost of viewing, I believe it is well justified in the current situation to rethink the question that Mr Maier has raised, who has to bear the costs. I believe that the agricultural profession, which as a producer brings the animals to the market, will not be able to bear the costs alone on the basis of this construction unless we assume that then these 30 percent additional costs over VAT, processing and current costs for the final product will bring a significant increase in consumer prices, an increase of more than 30 percent, namely, if you calculate everything high and normal, an increase of 70 to 80 percent. I therefore believe that it is well justified that the Federal Government, the Länder and the local authorities together offer aid not only through the disaster fund, but also through a long-term solution. As Minister of Health, I am also interested in – something the European Union is proposing to us for 2002/2003 – not to allow dogs and cats and other luxury and pet animals to flow back into the food chain through the classic combustion rail, but to take them out of the food chain after their death, and to ensure that the animal owners can also be sure that their favourite animals do not return to the food chain, among other things. The implementation of both projects will certainly require a common cost recovery issue of all three local authorities, countries, cities and municipalities. If we are interested in a comprehensive solution, we should work it out as quickly as possible and do not stop half-way again in handling this sample.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4501	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4523	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, allow me a clarification after consultation with my colleague, Mr Maier. Federal Minister Molterer! Mr Maier – what can happen to any speaker – is inferior to the error of a promiseor. He did not mean "treatment", but he wanted to say "consultation". He promised. I would ask you to note, Minister of State, that it is not the intention of Mr Maier to use any insulting expressions, but that he has simply promised, and that can happen to any one of us here. [[Call the liberals: Why does he not make any actual correction?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Because that's not possible!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: A second word!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: A real correction!]] – If you are not satisfied with the fact that a colleague from my colleague Mr Maier says this, Mr Pumberger, I am sorry. But I ask you to let me continue my speech now. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister Molterer! In your remarks you meant that there was a fundamental consensus on the inventory of the family-run farm structure in Austria. - That's right. To this basic consensus we are still at the disposal of social democrats and social democrats, but to this basic consensus there has always been a willingness to discuss and also the willingness to follow up, namely: to distribute agricultural funding accordingly, so that the small farmers, the family farms, can survive, and not the development – as we know it now and as we know it in the EU – to promote large farms and industrial production sites, Mr. Federal Minister. If you continue this path you've gone so far, you leave this basic consensus, and then you can't count on our cooperation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few more words to my previous speakers. Mr Schwarzenberger, you have spoken about the bad price. – That’s right, but you, as President of the Austrian Farmers’ Federation, are required here! Where was the representative of the Austrian farmers' interests when it came to negotiating a fair price with trade? Where, then, are the representatives of the Chambers, the representatives of your organization, who sit down and negotiate hard so that farmers can get a reasonable price? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We are not invited to the price scheme!]] Your intention is to ensure, at the expense of the public authorities, that a balance is made, but you hardly – and if, then, far too little – face the challenge, the tough negotiations so that the price is guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is not negotiated with the Farmers' Federation!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! You have said that the illegal animal imports that have been addressed here would not be possible. – I may refer to the issue of the "Kronen Zeitung" Oberösterreich on Wednesday, 29. November 2000, reference; Heading: "So bulls become "Austrian". Mr Schwarzenberger! It is precisely these things that Mrs Petrovic and we regularly address, namely that this is still possible and that we therefore call for greater control to protect Austrian producers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One more thing: They complain about the viability of small-structured rural agriculture. – Mr Schwarzenberger! In the meantime, in the last eight months, they have left out four times the opportunity to agree to applications that would have gone exactly in this direction: to give small farmers more funding than the big ones. You have missed this regularly! I do not think this is louder, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another comment: You have today tabled a motion for a resolution – Mrs Achatz has also spoken about it. The motion for a resolution includes the requirement that the Federal Government does not benefit from the opportunities it offers to the EU. But, Mr Schwarzenberger, I read in APA of 13. December, 15.23 a.m.: "This derogation was not proposed by the EU Commission, but by the ministers of agriculture of the Member States." That is, Austria was looking for. You are now proposing that the Federal Minister no longer take his requests seriously, but withdraw them, and that he not make use of them. Mr Schwarzenberger! Are these the confidence-building measures we are always talking about? Are these the measures to convince consumers that everything is being done to protect food? – I say no, Mr Schwarzenberger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me conclude by saying: We are in a critical and difficult situation, and Austrian agriculture is in this difficult and critical situation, but we have opportunities to get out of this situation. In Germany you start with a foundation: Out of the crisis, into organic farming. – We can already build on it, ladies and gentlemen. Do you agree with the requests made today? Open with this They give farmers the opportunity to benefit from the opportunities already existing in Austrian agriculture in the sense and in the interests of consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4672	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4696	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister! Mr. Minister of Agriculture! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is a primary task to draw from a crisis the 'right conclusions for a future agricultural policy'. However, my problem is again and again – and I formulated it last week – that you have drawn too little conclusions in my eyes and are too short of your projects. All in all, the opportunity is now being taken too little to really work on the causes and to put in place precautions and reorganisation measures. - That once in a while. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To be honest, in this debate, we also need to announce and clarify that what the EU Agriculture Ministers and you and you have now presented and decided to do is primarily a market regulation task. The comprehensive BSE tests have been ordered by EU authorities, mainly by the Council of Ministers to support the price of beef and veal, and not primarily in order to protect human health. – So it was communicated to me by relevant circles. That's what I said. And this must also be explained: that the value of important politicians is still oriented at the beef price and not at the health of people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As proof, I'd like to read to you from today's "Zürcher Zeitung". On page 9 it says: "Measures for the EU beef market" – the Swiss are well known to be relatively economic: "Reducing oversupply". - That's it. It's clear. This was also the background to the decisions in Brussels, which are now to be financed by Austrian disaster aid money in Austria. And this is the second criticism: In our view, these funds belong to the protection of disasters. Now we do not have a natural disaster, but this is, please, a man-made disaster caused by industry, which is a disaster, including the individual farmers in Austria, but also other people. I am also on the side of this small-structured rural agriculture because I want quality as a consumer because I want to have confidence in the quality and because I want the Austrian landscape to be maintained. That is why I am also in favour, Mr Minister, of providing for and re-administrative measures to an even greater extent. The small farmers, who are more affected, are much more affected in their existence, are expected to receive more grants and subsidies than the large farms and the large-scale agricultural industries that work with – I don't know – 200, 300, 400 pieces in the stable. I know that the Austrian beef market or the Austrian beef production is not so large. That's our luck and the reason we don't have BSE case yet. The problem, however, is: If we start testing now, there will certainly be some sort of problem with us, because the statistical probability is relatively high. We have also imported meat, we have imported other breeds, and it is not to be ruled out that there is, so to speak, a "black BSE sheep" among the cattle. In this case, we must also take precautions and therefore draw the "right conclusions"; Minister, I'm quoting you for the third time. Precaution is for me: clear labelling of Austrian products and a clear reference to the goods from where the cattle came from, as it grew up, where it was cared for and where it was slaughtered. Please also do something at EU level against this "ring game" of imports and exports, where Austria will, as it were, be misused for the cleaning of East Rinde or French beef, just because it has crossed the border with us and may have been illegally relabelled with us. - There must also be intervention. As an Austrian consumer and also as an Austrian politician, I demand this, which must be in the final effect also for measures here in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another aspect: You're right: The cheapest is not the best! But it is about persuading people that they consciously reacquire healthy food, regard it as a sign of quality of life and also as a sign of standard of living and are therefore willing to pay more for it. This also includes advertising made accordingly, an image campaign coupled also with a consumer campaign. Mr. Prime Minister – he is no longer here – it would also be your job, together with your Minister-College for the AMA sign or, above all, – this is my main concern – to advertise the bio-sign. Please, show yourself with this reliable quality mark and do more in this direction so that people can regain confidence, buy quality and perhaps even pay more for it! This seems to me to be a very essential point. The last point: Minister! It is urgent that you seek allies at EU level to reverse agricultural policy. The allies should not only be states and ministers, but above all consumers, as more or less on their backs – these are health aspects – this crisis is being experienced. And if this crisis is not the reason for the final change in awareness across Europe, I do not know what to do. Minister! You have to use this, and here you have to go ahead, then you have my respect, which you want, because I do not put things in your mind that perhaps others have done. Finally, I would just like to say: In the sense of a collegial climate in this House, I have also refused to speak to you immediately so that Mr Gradwelt could, as it were, plan something. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4784	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4806	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is really a day when we can be glad that we have these two ministers in our government. Today we know that Federal Minister Molterer and Federal Minister can show what leadership really means. These two men have taken measures with cool head and quiet hands in a difficult situation that are appropriate to the Austrian situation and help to maintain the most important thing we have, namely consumer confidence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to thank the meat industry, which has voluntarily committed itself to abandoning the import of foreign bovine animals, so that the Austrian consumer has all the imaginable safeguards at this difficult time. However, I would particularly like to point out the quality mark of the AMA and the organic quality mark. It hurt me, it really hurt me when Mr Maier compared car tyres to beef when he spoke of a recovery action for car tyres in connection with this BSE problem for European consumers and European farmers. It also surprised me that just a consumer protector who takes a box in his hand 30 times every day, on which there is "smoothing causes cancer", does not demand a recovery action for cigarettes, but talks about playing with beef roulette. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. That's how it is!]] Dear friends in this High House! We should continue to think things seriously. We have been on the road in Austria for more than ten years in accordance with the precautionary principle. We ensure that what the consumer gets has the best quality and warrants trust. We must also do this in the future and have some questions ahead of us that will not be easy to solve. The question is about imports from the enlargement countries, the question of imports in general, the question of the basic attitude towards agriculture and the question of costs. In his clear analysis, Federal Minister answered the main questions that farmers and consumers have just asked. I also believe that at this time we are facing a real cause of confusion as regards attitudes to life, agriculture and food in Europe. It starts to separate the spray from the wheat. The question arises whether those who talk only about whether protein recovery is true in the production unit stable will be the strongest in the future or those who think like our farmers will go out into the stable in the evening and live by the principle: If my cattle is fine, I'm fine. – This is actually the difference between farming and industrial agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is not about whether someone has five, ten, 20 or 100 cattle, but it is about whether the farmer himself goes out in the evening, sees if in the stable everything is okay, turns off the light and goes back in. And that is really our Austrian approach. We are working to ensure that sustainable agriculture, agriculture in responsibility, agriculture in the awareness that we are working with life, with the most valuable thing that exists at all. We should continue to receive this privilege for farmers to work with life in a rural agriculture. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] I ask you and all consumers to give food its dignity and respect what Austrian agriculture is doing. I would ask you not to throw us into a pot with those who experiment in the food technology that is being forced somewhere in Europe. I would like to ask you to support our path, which has been developed by successful farmers' ministers and successful farmers' politicians and which has been going on for a long time. I would like to thank all those who will take this decision with us today.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4867	The next speaker was Mr Pumberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4889	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate should be primarily a health debate, because everything we are discussing today, everything that has been done in recent years, months and days in relation to BSE, aims to improve the health of the population and to minimise the risk of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease for the population of Europe, especially Austria. And that is the important step we are taking today with the decision-making of this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mr Gradwelt, if you want to speak on health issues properly, you can do so at any time. I don't hear much from you. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was Europe's move to take action against cattle insanity. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was only brought to a direct connection with BSE a few years ago. Only seven, eight years ago could the direct reference be established, and measures have since been taken, at least that should be the case. I have already criticized this in 1994, and I give Mrs Petrovic's right to do so. When I asked for a ban on imports of beef from countries where BSE had already occurred, and pointed out that there was a risk that people would get the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease on account of the enjoyment of BSE-infested beef, well-known agricultural farmers, well-known experts, one must suddenly eat 300 kilograms of beef on a seat, so that for a person the probability of getting the Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is given. I'm standing on the hall alone. After six years I get right, the contexts are clearly proven. The critics who put me up as scandalizers at the time are mouth-dead. Mr Schwarzböck, who was very critical of me at the time, is no longer in Parliament. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: But not for that!]] And that is why I am pleased that we can decide on this request today. Federal Minister! If we say 1,4 billion schilling will cost, then I mean, that's certainly a lot of money, 1,4 billion schilling in the highest case, as we now estimate, for prevention, a precautionary measure in medicine. On the other hand, if we spend 250 billion schillings a year alone in Austria for the treatment of diseases, then the amount of 1.4 billion schilling for prevention against outbreak of a deadly disease does not seem to me to be very large. Mr Maier can already say that the agricultural ministers have been sparse in the past few years, and I am taking this away from him. But now that you are saying that European agriculture ministers are players and they should be treated, this has been criticized several times today, Mr Maier! . I don't see him anymore, I think he's going to apologize to the ministers of agriculture in Europe, at least I hope so. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that there are also dangers. If we now make decisions to stop this disease, I must point out that an APA report states that German livestock dealers are systematically avoiding the BSE regulation so that they transport numerous cattle to neighbouring countries so that they are slaughtered there, thereby saving them per bovine by not having to carry out the test, 1 759 S. The slaughtered beef, the beef is then transported back to Germany, with German livestock dealers making millions of profits. If I assume that the Germans do not intend to do this alone, I have to say that the penalty is a little looser. For the offence of the illegal in-transport ring or the introduction of beef and veal, 100 000 S fines are a lappaly for each animal carrier, for each animal dealer. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Please agree to our amendment!]] That is why we really need to take measures to prevent such criminal acts, as they appear to be putting German livestock dealers in the APA, by spending cattle in neighbouring countries, by mass slaughtering there, and by bringing beef back to Germany. So it can't be. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I read that there are already 1,200 BSE-infected cattle in France. The English expert Dr. Christl Donnelly has estimated and apparently also proved that in 2000 alone 100 slaughtered BSE rinders were brought to the food chain in France. So if we get beef from France, we must also look at the fact that we also take the necessary precautions for imports from France instead of always touching France with glacé gloves. In this sense I believe and hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will not be in the next few months when these tests are carried out, as many other European countries will be among the BSE-positive countries. I am almost afraid that statistics will give us a right and that, Mrs Moser, we can also record BSE-positive cases in the first months of 2001. In Germany, the BSE-positive beef in Schleswig-Holstein has been a random hit. It will be so with us too. Then we must continue to speak and also remove the temporary feeding ban on animal meal and take further measures in the sense of health protection in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4962	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grasser. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e4984	Mr President. Members of the Ministers! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Before I come to the financial questions of today's decision and the use of the funds of the disaster fund, I would like to make a few basic findings on today's debate. First point: From my point of view, it is very clear and important that the Austrian Federal Government has always gone a path and focused on a goal, which means: The quality of our food has the highest priority in our country. I think this is also extremely important as a Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since the quality of our food has the highest priority, all measures have been taken to ensure the highest level of consumer safety, to put consumer protection and consumer protection at the centre of our interest, while at the same time maintaining and maintaining legitimate consumer confidence in the high production standards of our Austrian agriculture. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is this consistent strategy of the Austrian Federal Government and this House that is continuing today with the implementation of the European Council decision on protection measures against the spread of BSE and, in particular, with this ban on animal meal feeding. For several weeks now, we have been holding discussions with colleagues Molterer and main speakers on how we can actually take this route financially and how we can achieve the goal of ensuring that there is no case of BSE in Austria. They know that these are three measures in particular: First: animal meal removal, second point: BSE rapid tests, third point: the purchase of cattle over 30 months of age, decided in the European Union. We should distinguish two things from the financial point of view: on the one hand, the annual costs of these decisions. From today's point of view, this is an amount of about 500 million schilling, especially for rapid tests, which will be necessary in the future, and for animal body exploitation. We should work here – and this is what we are doing – together with the other countries concerned on a cost-effective scheme, which should be put into effect as quickly as possible. We should distinguish one-time costs from the annual costs: In today's view, this is roughly an amount of about 500 million schilling. This is mainly about the destruction of animal meal stocks. I think it is important that you make a decision today, which concerns short-term access. In my view, as Minister of Finance, I am stressing the short-term nature of access to disaster fund funds, since we are all clear, I think that the disaster fund is not intended for this purpose. The disaster fund is important when it comes to walls, floods, avalanches and other natural disasters. It is certainly also important to make a decision today and say that we want to access the disaster fund in the short term in order to cope with this crisis without creating liquidity problems. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Interministerial working groups have therefore been set up to consider how we can deal with this problem together financially. For next week, we agreed a meeting with three national leaders to assist the countries in a coordinated strategy of federal government, countries, other regional authorities, the industries concerned and agriculture. We are interested in, of course, keeping access to the disaster fund as low as possible, because the disaster fund today has a budget of about 400 million schilling. Of course, an access to these funds by way of a fee would endanger a correspondingly important support for the case of natural disasters – which, of course, we all do not want, but unfortunately cannot control God. That is why I can assure you that it will be a matter of concern to me to bring both objectives under control, that the funds of the disaster fund are sufficiently available for the actual purpose and that the countries and stakeholders know that there is no access to the funds of the disaster fund by way of a fee. Therefore, there are the discussions of the two departments by Mr Molterer and Mr Hoof on how we can achieve the financing together with the countries, where there is also a 50 to 50 cost reduction, and how we can also take the injured into consideration in order to reach a common financial solution to this problem. There must also be a solution in terms of increased contributions from Austria to the European Union. If they become necessary, as I have been told today, what could be the case in a scale of 350 million schilling, there must also be discussions with colleagues Molterer in this case in order to clarify how the increased contribution payments can be financed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think, clearly: The quality of our food has the highest priority – also in the sense of the statements made by Mr Pumberger. The consumer's safety is what counts. Therefore, the money must also be available for such an important point. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will therefore do everything we can to ensure that the money is secure and that an efficient solution can also be created that you will allow us to make use of today's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5078	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima in word. The voluntary time limit is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5099	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! There was a very interesting report in the Austrian Press Agency yesterday afternoon. There it was said: "Austria may sell untested beef at home." The background is: The Commission allows three Member States, Austria, Sweden and Finland, to sell beef without the recently decided BSE rapid tests in their own country. However, the Commission stresses that it did not really want to do so, but that this is based on an initiative by the agriculture ministers of these countries. A speaker from the Ministry of Agriculture said yesterday afternoon at 3.30 p.m. that one does not know whether to use this derogation at all. Ladies and gentlemen! I just think this is incredible! It is obvious to us here in Parliament that we are constantly told what strict and comprehensive tests and other measures are to be taken and that we are massively in Brussels for rapid tests, a ban on feeding animal meal, and I do not know what else is going to be used to demand derogations through the back door with any letters! It is completely incomprehensible to me, Mr Minister, how you want to justify this! - That's what I'm talking about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] If this had been done, that would mean that no beef must be tested in Austria at all. Cattle under 30 months of age cannot be tested because there are no tests, and those over 30 months of age are not tested because they mean that everything is so safe with us anyway and there is nothing to be found anyway. That's completely mystical. It is not the first time that derogations have been applied for. A few weeks ago, it became known that there had already been a joint letter from Minister Sickl and Minister Molterer to Brussels demanding that the ban on risk parts should not apply to Austria, because there has not yet been an BSE case in us. So it really seems to have a system that you are trying to keep up with some exceptions in the BSE crisis, which I think are completely inconceivable and completely incomprehensible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Clearly, the competent ministers still do not properly assess the risk posed by BSE. I wonder what is still to happen, so that you finally act in accordance with the precautionary principle, finally carry out comprehensive tests in Austria, so that we really know what the situation is. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why don't you agree?]] Even in Germany it has always been said that there are no BSE cases until we have begun to carry out comprehensive tests. Now you know, there's probably BSE cases. I am completely enigmatic as you can remember that there are no tests in Austria. Obviously, there should be a little bit of coordination in the government, because two hours after the spokesman of the Ministry of Agriculture said it was not yet decided whether to use this derogation with regard to the tests, said a spokesman from Minister Chief, one would not do it. Perhaps you should coordinate a little bit better, agree a little better and do not constantly address any exceptions in Brussels that make no sense at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Why don't you agree?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the current measures you have taken in connection with BSE are far from sufficient. The prohibition of feeding animal meal must simply apply in general, beyond the six months, and not just for a short period of time. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You refuse six months! Fundamental opposition!]] In addition, there is an absolutely large surveillance gap, which I have often drawn attention to. We still receive meat imports from animals into our country that were slaughtered before reaching 30 months of age. These are not tested, we do not know in which health these animals found themselves. But this is the meat we buy and take to ourselves mainly in the supermarket. This is still a big problem, where you simply have to find a solution, because the current state is simply not satisfactory. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You agree!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. To be sure, Mr Pumberger can agree. That's his demand!]] You can agree, Mr Pumberger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5240	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Maier and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. Mr Schwarzenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start by playing the text you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5268	Mr President. My very dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Mrs Sima said here that Austria had submitted an BSE exception request. - That's wrong! The exception has been made to Finland, according to my information. But since the 15 countries of the European Union are divided into three groups – Great Britain, Ireland and Portugal as a particular threat, the other countries are at risk and Finland, Sweden and Austria – this derogation was then extended to these three countries at the request of Finland. But we have, by our motion for a resolution, asked the Government not to make use of this exception.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5298	The next speaker was Mr Wenitsch. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5319	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it is regrettable that a disaster must first be brought about in order to move those who are politically responsible to a certain degree of rethinking. I still hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the political leaders may have recognized this sign of nature. At the same time, I hope that this agro-industrial thinking, which prevails in the European Union and worldwide, will finally be stopped. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties! Countries such as France or Germany, Mr Gradwelt, here in this House of this Federal Government more or less as an example, that is really not necessary, I believe. [[Abg. Gradwelt: yesterday's statements by the Federal Chancellor or Minister of Agriculture!]] This is certainly not the right place. If you are quoting Mr Schröder, who has just spoken more or less of the agricultural industry a few months ago, I find that more than ridiculous and more than worrying. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Sima and the other previous speakers from the Social Democratic Party or also from the Greens are as follows: It has already appeared in the APA today that Austria is grateful to God, I would like to say here that one of the few countries in the EU regarding BSE has been given a good witness by the EU, while Austria has not been obliged to carry out these BSE investigations. But still – thank God! – Minister Molterer and Head of State agreed that these investigations, whether required by the EU or not, are being carried out here in Austria in order to ensure consumer confidence in Austrian beef. I would first of all like to thank the Ministers for this. [[Abg. This is why you are tabling a motion for a resolution!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say another word here: Federal Minister for Finance Grasser has agreed to make available funds from the disaster fund in order to carry out these investigations. I know it's not a conventional disaster, it's a wall or flood, no matter what. But this disaster threatens the whole of Austria, the whole European Union, yes, the whole world. There has been no such disaster in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! We cannot talk about a regional disaster, but it is an Austrian disaster, indeed a European disaster. Unfortunately, Austria has not contributed to preventing this disaster in recent years. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been calling for a stop to these animal imports for many years. Mr Gradwelt, if you say that you have been asking for this for years, I ask: What have you done in recent years? – You have gone out of here and said that you are demanding this, and that has been called for for years now. Here in this House, this has so far only called for one party, and that was the Freedom Party, otherwise nobody! [[Abg. Now you know everything better! Now you don't agree to the requests! Now you deny the past!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, they have more or less decided to join the EU by a large majority in this House, even with the votes of the Greens, without being aware of the consequences that would come. We have warned about these disasters. We knew that was going to happen. We hoped it wouldn't happen, but it came like that. Ladies and gentlemen! We did not wish to join the EU in this form, especially under these conditions. We have said, let us still have a little time, let us give some advice on this, let us see how we can better conduct the accession negotiations, better formulate the accession treaty, and so on and so on. No, it had to go fast. Okay, let's take note of this. It's just like that. But if you regret it afterwards, it is certainly not justified, Mr Gradwelt, and you have no right to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Government for acting so quickly and immediately in the case of BSE crisis that it strengthens the consumer's confidence in Austrian agriculture and production. I hope that this federal government will continue to do everything possible to bring about a rethinking in the agricultural policy at EU level.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5397	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5419	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, a brief replica to the actual correction of Mr Schwarzenberger. Mr Schwarzenberger! You claimed that Mrs. Sima had said something false. So I quote the press release in which it says: "This derogation was not proposed by the EU Commission, but by the ministers of agriculture of the Member States." [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But not Austria requested!]] I can read more: "Austria had not yet decided whether it would benefit from this exception, a spokesman of the Vienna Ministry of Agriculture." [[Abg. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Listen!]] Please, what's the point of Mrs Mag? Sima incorrect? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That Austria has submitted the application!]] We would be on the subject as well. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem in itself is large enough, but it is even greater because of such statements that consumers no longer know what they are about. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Read our motion for a resolution!]] It is said again and again that the FPÖ had warned against joining the EU and said that agriculture would pay for it. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, therefore, the following question: What would agricultural policy look like would Austria not be in the EU? Would we have organic farming? Would we have the support of the small units? - I'm not convinced. On the contrary! It would also have been because this is a global market situation, which unfortunately is also the reason why we are dealing with the BSE problem. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] More and more, more and more – and with that we have these problems. Already in 1996/97, the speech was a long time before – I read this here – of BSE compensation payments. Well, this topic was already there. But what happened to the BSE compensation payments? – They have been used exactly as it is in Austria philosophy and usual: All those who produce much that have a large surface get a lot of money, and all those who have less get much too little to be able to continue this little one. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You decided!]] If the Federal Minister says that good products are also worth something, then I already agree with him, but ask why a total advertising budget for agricultural products of 250 million schilling for the advertising of organic products in agriculture is spent lax 8 million schilling. – This is not the way to make people pay more for quality. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are other uncertainties. What, then, does this time-limitation of the feeding ban on animal meal mean for half a year? In addition, it is still to be read that during this half year all animal meal, which is spirited around there, can also be ensured in the farms. Who's going to do that this half year? Who will control this half-year? Not to mention the punishments. On this point I am entirely of your opinion, Mr Pumberger: These 100,000 s are a crack. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But better than nothing! You didn't decide!]] You will be happy to vote with us when it comes to the higher penalties. How does the comprehensive testing work? How does this BSE test work? That's what people are asking. How is that supposed to happen? Something else at the cost: We do not know at all what this really costs; it is spoken of by 1.1 billion schilling, 1.4 billion and much more. Clearly, we will agree to an immediate financing measure from the disaster fund. However, the statements of Mr. Chief Minister and several others were also very clear today that the countries have to finance this – in the word "country" the alarm bells are already ringing at me – and, of course, the communities too. I wonder why, as far as they have not contributed at all, communities have to be used for this financing, so that they have to be told by Mr Ortlieb again in a stupid way: The communities are not sparingly willing, they do not know themselves and are unable to work economically. I can still put forward a comprehensive motion for a resolution by the honourable Member at the time I was still speaking. Maier, Gradwelt, Mag. Sima, Mag. Introduce Gaßner and comrades on measures taken by the Federal Government with regard to the health and life of consumers. I know that the motion for a resolution is distributed, and I thank you for that. It states in this proposal: "The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to represent the following positions in terms of the protection of life and health of Austrian consumers and to calm down agricultural markets." It is then about the prohibition of feeding, the rapid tests, and the cost of these measures to protect the life and health of consumers, and so on. I would ask you to study this request carefully and join him. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5544	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Members has just been presented in its key points. Maier and comrades were also presented in writing and are sufficiently supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it will also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5713	The next speaker was Mr Pistotnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5734	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner! Dear Mrs. Sima! Why Citation You always have an APA message from the Ministry of Agriculture? – Let us also quote an APA message from the speaker of the Minister for Health, who said that this solution, which would be possible from the EU, would not be in question for Austria, because we do not want to endanger our good beef because we do not let some of the parts we market in the country be checked! Dear Mrs. Sima! You have come to this House as a self-thinking activist, and you are not as good as you, as red Members, always paint black. Call things the way they are – that would be enough. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic has taken note of all of this in her statement. It has spoken here of profit and abuse of animals, and in the same breath it has also said, as the Minister of Finance now has three-digit millions left at once, so that we can get hold of this and continue to sell our meat. A colleague from the Social Democrats even made a comparison with tires. Animal meat is compared to rubber. - Congratulations! Foresaw what will happen, no one can, but I quote an article from your "Praybook", from your journal, ladies and gentlemen of red and green, where you have made a top story out of it. This article first mentions dried rat meat and then says: "... Austria. Illegal is imported and exported almost everything: Snakes and turtles as well as exotic nails, ever more often and in ever larger style but mass goods such as pig and beef, live or slaughtered, whole or filleted. Most unscrupulous game type: Cheap cattle from the east, often even with BSE transferors, are imported by detours to Austria and then available as high-quality breeding or slaughter animals back to the east – for which the tightly organized trader rings also deposit EU fat export premiums. Also slaughter waste, which is declared to be tasty, is becoming increasingly profitable in the former eastern block." If you read this article, you could say that the blood is just going down on the walls. – I congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen! Ask your friends if they are not afraid that, on the basis of such articles, the meat can no longer be marketed by our healthy cattle and the organic meat! Then we would have the black Peter twice: first, by carrying the costs, and second, by not being able to market the meat from our healthy cattle. I say to you: 1994 – I wasn’t for it at the time, I said: EU yes, but later, not so precipitated, not without If and But. Mr. Maier, who was the engine then? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The Freemen! Only until the result was there, then you only acted for tactical reasons at once! You asked!]] Also this paper was the engine, and everyone who said: Careful!, were bad. Her memory leaves behind, Mr. Klubobmann's representative, I've noticed this more often, this time too. We were really against it, and you beat us for it. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is your policy: first yes, then no!]] Since 1990, we have not fed animal meal, and it is also contrary to me that we now pay the invoice twice. We were opposed to the too fast accession, but, ladies and gentlemen, what does this help you, what does this help us, what does this help me? We are democrats, and that's how they decided. We're sitting in this boat, so we have to put the evil at the root and invest the money together. I would also like to see the agricultural factories, as last week's newspaper, no longer approved as in the past. One thing I wonder: Ladies and gentlemen of the left, red half of the empire and of the Greens! I haven't even heard the word "Haider" today. Haider floats like a ghost over you, even in this high house, although he's not here at all. Haider made a good proposal. He said he would expect a third of the costs of these investigations to be paid by the EU, 80 percent of the federal government, and 20 percent of the countries and municipalities. [[Call to the Greens: But this is not going to happen!]] [[Abg. Oils: That's 130 percent!]] Whoever pays it: We have this – and in it we probably agree – we have to bite in this acid apple so that we can protect our good meat from healthy cattle and market it in the future. The health of the population must be worth these financial resources to us, even though it should be 1.5 or more billion schilling.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5812	Mr Hornegger is speaking as the next speaker. Your speaking time is also gladly limited by 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5833	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Where does the Lord of Consumer Protection from Salzburg sit? Mr Maier! With the headlines as she has today spread the opposition here at the speaker's desk: "Sin meat, fat profits", unscrupulous scams, beef roulettes, alarming reports, consumer uncertainty is being carried out, and there is your commitment, Mr. Consumer Protector, not in place! The only thing you're doing here is falling to the head of our cattle farmers alone. As a farmer's representative who does not play down this problem, I say to you, Mr Maier: Your job as a consumer protectionist would be to explain to the consumer and convince him that the foods offered in supermarkets at lowest prices are not the... – Yes, you can talk afterwards and correct everything you want. [[Abg. Edlinger: You must convince!]] [[Abg. Gradwell:..., not consumer protection! You, Mr President, have the task of informing consumers!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] I would like to point out that our healthyly produced foods are only curly items in the supermarkets, and that needs to change. You can help, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Minister Chief! I am particularly pleased that you did not do what the EU would have enabled us to do, namely to implement these special regulations, in order to convince consumers that we are putting healthy products on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! We now also need a seal of quality, which Austrian beef also declares as such. I very much hope that, at last, the Chamber of Commerce will also voluntarily and immediately refrain from its mogel pack, namely the "A" stamp, and together with the agricultural market Austria will represent and apply a seal of quality, ensuring that, if "Austria" is on it, there should also be 100 percent of Austrian quality in it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As we have heard today, there have already been a great deal of work on funds from the disaster fund. The use of animals, the energy representatives, all of them are about who comes along, who could get funds. But, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to Austrian cattle farmers? This debate has not yet been discussed by this speaker. [[Abg. Swimmlein: Mr Colleague! Why don't you talk to the Secretary of State? He'll see it in a different way!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that our ministers today have shown that access to the funds of the disaster fund is justified in this case. And addressed to the opposition's address: Ladies and gentlemen! Today, you can calmly agree with the government's requests, even without gnawing with the teeth, as Mrs Petrovic has said, because today you have been drawn by our ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5932	A further point of order has been made by Mr Gradwelt. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5954	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My second word mention has the following reason: My group will be voting in favour of the resolution tabled by the Coalition Group, which is in need of explanation due to the debate. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution, which I have just carried out and which I would like to explain, is actually an expression of the distrust of the coalition groups towards the Federal Government. What the Federal Government has announced that it will not do, however, calls for Members Schwarzenberger and Achatz not to use the EU derogation. Since we are also convinced that the derogation from not examining bovine animals over 30 months in Austria should not be used, we agree with this request, but not without telling you, Mr Schwarzenberger: Even if you yourself do not have so much confidence in this federal government, we will support the Federal Government in doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e5987	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would also like to make it clear once again what we see as the meaning of these proposals. I see it as a success of our efforts that you, Mr Schwarzenberger, have tabled yet another motion for a resolution which is continuing to call into question this derogation. That's exactly what we think is necessary. We see this temporary animal meal ban rule only as a follow-up to EU resolutions and a first step and an important signal. In this respect, I will be personally and many of my colleagues in the Green Club will also agree to this request, but still see it as a key challenge for the Austrian agricultural policy to implement the BSE prevention measures in the next few months and to present a concept here. We will focus on the idea that both ministers – the main and the Molterer – present this concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6042	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 412 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Maier and comrades tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Maier and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article II Sections 8 and 9. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are speaking for this sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber and comrades concerning accompanying precautions in respect of bovine and transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Achatz and Mr Comrades on the current BSE situation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 51.) Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Maier and comrades concerning measures taken by the Federal Government with regard to the safety of health and consumer life. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Edellinger: The No Saggers sit!]] 2. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (379 and 379 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which regulates the financial compensation for the years 2001 to 2004, and makes other financial compensation provisions (FAG 2001) and the Financial Balance Act 1997 and the Housing Promotion Fund Grant Act 1989 are amended (405 of the Supplements) 3. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (387 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act on the constitutional status of certain provisions on equal treatment (406 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6117	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Van der Bellen is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The speaking time will be set to 10 minutes if you are right. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6145	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensatory matter is usually a dry matter, but behind a section of the newly negotiated financial compensatory measures is a truly serious attack on the education system, especially in compulsory schooling. This regulation, as is to be decided today, means that only 1 445 compulsory school teachers are to be deleted in Vienna. 1 445! As the National School Council has calculated, these are 14.5 percent of all planning posts – a seventh of all compulsory school instructors within a short period of time. One has to imagine what that means: a seventh of all planning sites in the shortest sight. That is, in the next year and in the next year, especially next year, with autumn 2001, at school, no less than 1 012 planning posts are to be deleted. That is, I must add, not only to see as the inability of ÖVP and FPÖ, that is, the Federal Government, namely to understand what is needed in the education system and, in particular, in the compulsory education field, because the countries have also agreed to it – including Vienna. In other words, the SPÖ Vienna has agreed to the removal of compulsory school posts. [[Abg. Edler: Tooth-kneading!]] More than 1,000 jobs next autumn, at school! I do not know what happened to the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Vienna. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who's affected? First of all, the children, of course – I come back to that. [[Call at the ÖVP: There is also less!]] Second, the teachers, the teachers in this case. Especially in compulsory schooling, women dominate clearly and by far. The women among the teachers meet this by far disproportionately. It is especially true for the younger teachers. Of course, the elderly, who are usually pragmatized, can, as it is so beautifully called in the jargon of the government parties and unfortunately also the SPÖ Vienna, not – under quotation marks – become "one-in-one-part", the younger, the contractual teachers, whose contracts are not extended, which are terminated by autumn 2001, very well. The children are affected, the parents are affected, and we will all be affected about the negative effects on the labour market. I'll come back to that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Officials of the Council of State Schools in Vienna have already considered how they can "get around" with this situation – under quotation marks. The first conclusions are, of course, obvious: more students per class, higher school pupils, changes in timetables, especially in the primary school, but also in the primary school, and significant restrictions on non-binding exercises and free objects. But according to the estimates of the National School Council, only about 400 or 450 planning posts can be "one-spart" – again under quotation marks. The expression "saving" perverts here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] With savings, what is being done here does not have to do the least, but here the children are hit in their most sensitive learning and life phase. What is missing in this area, which is neglected at age up to 15 years, can very often no longer be corrected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At this age, it is not only a matter of children learning, as they say, something – they do – but it is important that they learn, that is, having fun in learning. And I don't need to tell you: The bigger the classes, the more anonymous one becomes, the more difficult it becomes to go to the individual child, be it a boy or a girl, in the class, and the sooner the teachers are overemphasized in all efforts. [[New condolences with the greens.]] But that's not it alone. It is specifically the situation in Vienna which is affected here. Again: I don't understand how the SPÖ Vienna could get involved. Vienna, the Federal Capital of Vienna, is in a special situation. Nowhere in Austria do the foreign-speaking children concentrate, whether Austrian or not, nowhere do the children with non-German mother tongues concentrate as they do in Vienna. And it makes a difference whether I teach children with German native languages or elsewhere in the country – for example in the northern forest district – with a relatively homogeneous population and 95 percent. There you can talk about whether it really is so bad, whether it really makes such a big difference, whether 20 children or 22 children are in class. I know – not directly own – very personal view, because my wife teaches in such a school, the conditions in some districts of Vienna. There is a real demand for all: primarily the children who come to school with very bad and partly completely missing German skills, and the parents. These children also often come from poor social conditions: Low-income parents, with precarious employment conditions. Teachers who need to focus on the fact that they have become almost as similar as social workers in the course of time and have had to cut the hours in view of this situation and to reduce the number of teachers, this tends to breed the auxiliary workers and auxiliary workers of the next generation! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] To underline this again: According to the members of the Council of State Schools, these measures, which now have to be taken in the context of the consequences of the financial compensation – I hope the Economic Council is still entitled here – will say and write two thirds to a reduction of two-thirds! – the measures to support foreign students, I read here on my paper – meaning, of course, the foreign-language, foreign-speaking children from the mother tongue. A number of these children do have Austrian citizenship, but according to how the conditions developed in Vienna, Austrian citizenship does not yet mean that the children, when they come to school at the age of six, have sufficient German knowledge. Unfortunately, this is a fact, and this one has to stand. It's a fact that it's not like the kids, as they said earlier, on the street, that is, on the playground, together with the other boys and girls, they automatically learn the language of the country. That is no longer the case, at least in certain districts. That's where the Turks have their bells. The Turkish and the Kurds and the Serbian-speaking and so on remain largely below themselves. This situation needs to be taken into account by school policy, especially in Vienna, with regard to school policy. But it's not just that! The two-thirds reduction in assistance to foreign-speaking students is still subject to extreme reductions in the level of two-thirds in the areas of counsellors, support teachers, support teachers, law enforcement. If there is a reduction of two thirds in the integration of mentally or physically disabled children, then one can delete the integration efforts. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My colleague Dieter Brosz will be tabling a resolution on this issue today. I can only appeal once again to all those involved, be they from the EIA, from the FPÖ or, in particular, from the SPÖ, to try to negotiate these provisions of the financial compensation, as they are decided today, not to put them into practice, but in one way or another, really energetic, with all energy, to continue to interact in any way. It is not about the autumn of 2001 becoming a hotter – that is only the surface – but it is about that we cannot leave the children in Vienna and the teachers in Vienna alone with this situation. That is why I appeal to the other groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6248	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6269	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to start quite against my other kind with a quote from the Committee on Budgets by Mr Auer, who said that if we talk about the financial balance and the finances of the communities, then we should first look very closely at what we are talking about and what the budgets of the communities look like. I would like to make this statement at the beginning of my remarks. Each of you probably knows the classical tasks of the communities. It is a canal to build a road, the water pipeline is to be built, and then there and there is a walkway and a protection path to make. In addition, there is no longer much at all. My previous speaker spoke very clearly about the situation of schools, which I will also speak to. This also takes place in rural areas, also on the condition that this package is now set out. Then the way from the kindergarten, from the crab tube to the nursing home is to mention the associated social measures, which take the wide space. All of these are related to not only investment costs, but also costs for their implementation and maintenance. In all these areas, a very substantial share of funding remains to be found in the municipalities. The previous item on the agenda has once again shown: We have a problem with BSE in the field of agriculture, and in this context we have enormously high costs, and we are soon back to the communities that are to finance it. It was similar in the case of heating aid. There are a lot of examples of getting back to the financial possibilities of the communities. At the same time, however, it must also be seen that the municipal finances have been greatly reduced in recent years. Unfortunately, I can now fully name only the figures from Upper Austria. By the way, this is also a subject which is essentially part of the financial balance. In fact, we do not know how the financial resources are actually distributed throughout the country because they are distributed differently in each federal state. In Upper Austria, for example, the municipalities are burdened with 600 million schilling from the tax reform. Due to the beverage tax new 400 million schilling is missing, and the advertising charge is lacking 200 million schilling. Zack, 1.2 billion schilling less, and that in the face of ever-increasing loads of municipal households! Now I bring an example from my community: 25 percent of the budget is automatically gone, are not available – not for community facilities, not for the scratchroom, not for school care all day long and not for senior care, whether it be mobile or at home. All of this, I think, should be very carefully analysed and carefully examined before we talk about the financial balance and about secure municipal finances. I am actually very pleased that this financial compensation package also includes the obligation to analyse the areas of responsibility of the communities and to determine what has to be done there. I hope that it will also be determined how these tasks will be financed, because we would have finally solved the problem that the local authorities, the local politicians, the mayors should use the most essential piece of clothing they need at the moment, these are the knee protectors, so that they can slide in as deep and intensive as possible at all the funding stations in order to get out as much for their communities as possible! [[We welcome the SPÖ, the ÖVP and Green MEPs.]] Against this background, the financial compensatory negotiations were conducted, as was usual in the past, in a short period of time, within half a year, this was done, handled, and the financial compensation was "stricken". I remember a statement by you, Minister of State, of 7. June – I wrote this out – when Mr Auer asked you about how this would continue with the graded population key and whether there would be any changes. To this question, as far as I still remember, you have answered: I don't get involved in it, not to be left as a payer in the end. – This is the statement of the Minister of Finance when it comes to the concerns of the communities. [[Abg. Auer: Like the Edellinger before!]] The financial compensatory negotiations have led to the fact that, in a very short time, the funding of the municipalities is so well and badly secured. For me, it is a continuation of a very unsatisfactory situation for the communities of Austria. The smaller communities, compared to the cities, have got a small "sugarl" to increase the base amount. Now the base amount is the sum of 102 s, and in this legislative period it will rise to 1 000 s. – Yes, that’s something we can certainly befriend ourselves with, but this does not, in principle, resolve the security of municipal finances for the long term and for the future. We have, of course, once again the debate, which is repeated every four years, with the graduated population key: Get away from it, unfair et cetera! . I believe that the communities – I would like to contradict my colleague Auer and his colleagues in the ÖVP – must be very careful that they – and that is, I believe, the objective of this discussion – are not divided apart. So far, they have been divided, big against small. In my opinion, there is the following political considerations: In the case of the great ones, most of whom are assigned to the red half of the empire, one should cut in; I definitely put this under. But in general, I don't think it makes any sense for us to be divided. It is also said that there are small poor communities, but also small financial communities, and that there are large poor communities, but also large financial communities. Thus, there are already four categories of communities. The more categories of communities we create, the easier it will be for the financial compensatory partners and the finance ministers in the future to dictate financial compensation to the communities with which we all have no pleasure. I would also like to address the allocations of needs that are still to be done. I looked at the needs of the two municipalities Fischlham and Schwerberg. In 1999 the municipality had Fischlham per capita – per capita! – 6 000 S of allocation of needs, but the municipality of Schwerberg only has 900 p. – I just want to hold this so that we can finally get away from the bedding towards proper municipal funding. What really surprised me in this context in the discussion was the comments of Mr Schwarzenberger, who has repeatedly talked about rural development. In the course of the budget debate I asked Minister Molterer, where rural development has been taken into account in the 13 billion schilling available to me. Only 3 per cent can be used outside agricultural support. Only 3 percent may come Communities and farms of the economy benefit, everything else goes into agricultural support. Let me also make a comment on the measures relating to teachers. I think that § 4 in the Financial Balance Act is a very unfortunate solution; we have already discussed this in detail within the framework of the budget. What does this eventually mean for the communities as well? – I am convinced that these measures, when they are rigorously implemented, will affect the smallest schools so massively that they may need to be closed. I'm also convinced that the call won't wait for a very long time, which means: Well, if you need more teachers, if you need more quality in school, then you have to pay the countries! – I have already said it today: Whenever I hear the countries should pay, I already know: of course also the communities. This, I think, is absolutely against our students, because this is damaging to the quality of our schools – let alone that many teachers will become unemployed in the future. An exact number is not yet known. I don't know. Are there 4,000 or are there 10,000 teachers who are less needed? – This measure means nothing but bad to invest in the future. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that I think it is essential that in future we become clear about the tasks of the municipalities and the different national financial flows throughout the federal territory and finally achieve a financial balance on this basis that really has to do with securing municipal finances.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6317	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6338	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Van der Bellen has already given the education policy speech, and I just need to make a few additions to it. First of all, I would like to refer to the background to the question of the national teachers. In this context, it should be noted that there are certain countries that are particularly affected by these measures, and that is not only Vienna – Vienna in particular, also from quantity in particular – but also the federal states of Burgenland and Carinthia. – Mr Amon, that will be You probably know, because as far as you are concerned, you will be involved in the negotiations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] That can be justified. There were already calls that were there: Well, what's the point of Vienna? Such calls have already been heard from the back ranks on the side of the government parties. – I wonder what kind of picture you are developing. Burgenland and Carinthia have other backgrounds: This is about minority education. The reason why the pressure is so large is quite simple: So far, apart from the absolute number of students' heads and the calculation with the countries, there has been also the criterion that there have been additional quotas for certain requirements, for example for minority schools or in Vienna for the expenses for integration in many areas, especially in the linguistic field. This financial compensation is now intended to remove this criterion of the special quotas, it is simply no longer foreseen. This is a measure that can also be clarified in ideological terms. Of course, it can be said that it was not obvious, perhaps Mr Häupl or Mrs Gehrer, that may be all, but the fact is that it is precisely in the sensitive areas, in which you have written very much in the Government Convention, that integration must take place – Mrs Gehrer also mentions this again and again – in those areas in which this is the case. Very well, there are enormously high savings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second is a strengthening, something which has not yet been sufficiently perceived in the public debate, and which is why it is also incredibly difficult to get to the exact figures. We now accept what the Vienna Council of State Schools says; I also explain why we accept it. I believe that for the following very essential reason, it is difficult to talk about the exact figures: It has been the educational budget in recent years, each time – the SPÖ has agreed, you are right, Mr Amon; that was a serious mistake, I give you the right to exceed billions. [[Abg. Amon: The SPÖ has agreed!]] That's the point! [[Abg. Amon: The President of the Vienna City School Council...!]] I therefore repeatedly ask the question in the Committee on Budgets: How many billion do you want to exceed the budget this year? Because if you don't know if this billion-overload – last year it was 2 billion schilling – will be added or not, then you can't say whether there will be more or less 4 000 teachers' posts. As long as there are budget figures There is no clarity, we will not come to a serious discussion. That is why we are finally calling for a budget to be set aside. But we have always had to miss that in recent years. The reason for this was always that the countries spend too much money, they do not comply with the agreements. – That may have been so in some areas – that may indeed be so! – only if you say: On average, at the beginning of the next school year this is no longer happening!, you must be aware that this leads to a massive impairment of the quality of education. And that's unacceptable! That is simply unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would really like to understand this discussion and see which countries spend too much on and what this is about. Put the numbers on the table! We've been demanding this for years. Mr Oellinger has asked several questions in the past, and I too have tried to find out. The ministry just doesn't put out the numbers, it's not comprehensible what quotas these are. Let me give you an example: Last year, there was a 5 percent reduction in the number of countries. In Upper Austria, almost 200 teachers were informed in writing one week before school began that their contract would not be extended. It happened a week before school! – How to deal with people can be seen by this example. – A week later, these teachers received the following letter: Command return, contract is extended. – The background to this action was that a special quota of around 200 teachers was found. It was not really clear to the Council of State Schools where this is located. – That’s not how to make education policy! That is not the way to make budgetary policy! Therefore, I am now putting in place a motion for a resolution which is at least intended to ensure that the substance of the matter is reversed by the devastating effects. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] These are the key points that need to be met in order to prevent a dramatic and dramatic situation at the beginning of the next school year. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the following: As I said in my last speech, I found it relatively original that Mrs Gehrer, in an interview with "NEWS", said literally: I don't know! . Now we see exactly the consequences of these measures, namely your policy, to say: The countries themselves have to do it, we only provide the framework conditions. For example, if there is a 10 percent reduction in Vienna, there must be measures that are drastic and that simply have a negative impact on social integration, on the integration of the disabled, on linguistic integration, because this is about support measures. All that goes beyond compulsory schooling is under pressure. You can't just make the countries responsible and say: We don't care, we don't care! That is the logical consequence of the agreements you conclude here. I think it's unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am of the opinion that we can easily discuss the extent to which countries and states should contribute to the financial balance, all of this is quite disputable, but I consider this policy to be a policy of concealment and standing out of responsibility – as it must be said – with the countries saying: A few thousand jobs less! Do what you want! Or: No restrictions, but everything should remain the same as before! – You can't make politics like that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6453	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, Mrs Freundes, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Belen, Mrs Van der Belen, Mrs Van der Freunde, has been sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6477	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me three comments on my two previous speakers from the Greens. First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group: Education policy is not a teacher's employment policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second comment: Mr Van der Bellen, don't forget, education is not a music box where you throw a schilling in above and more education comes out below! It's not that simple, Mr Van der Bellen. Third comment: It even said the president of the Vienna City School Council, as my colleague Werner Amon has constantly called in: I think that's possible! I think that's reasonable! The fact that you are making justament opposition policy here is, I believe, not a very constructive contribution from you. You should be a little more constructive, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Ollinger: That was "conspicuous"!]] But now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Last week we decided on the federal budget for 2001. Today, we are adopting a very important package of the most important budgetary and financial policy laws: the Financial Balance Act, which will apply for the next four years, until 2004, a separate federal constitution law, in which certain financial compensatory provisions are brought into the constitutional order, a very important and for years announced, negotiated and really necessary capital market offensive and a reorganisation of hospital financing with a restructuring of health care. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an incredibly massive package of financial and budgetary policies, a real fireworks. We want to re-rule Austria in terms of budget and financial policy. That means first of all: Let's end the debt. That is, more efficiency and awareness of costs in execution and administration. Thirdly, more fairness and more justice in the financial flows between the federal, state and local authorities. That is, fourthly, more performance and less shortage in hospital financing. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Hallelujah!]] That is to say, "Rerule Austria" in the area of financial and budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Hallelujah!]] Mr Peter Kostelka! You have a "meritance": If your group had not blocked so many reforms during the last period, then this government could not re-rule Austria, you are right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That's cheap!]] In this respect, you are the second birth-helper of this new government, along with colleague Nürnberg. Nuremberg, Kostelka: Birth-aids of this government. [[Abg. Böhacker: Successful government!]] Recognition must be! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The Austrians give us the right, at least in the Burgenland!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were two key issues in the financial balance, which regulates the financial flows for the next four years. First central issue: Contribution of countries to the consolidation course of the federal government, contribution of countries to the zero deficit strategy for 2002. Second central issue: How can we take into account the financial tensions of the weak communities, namely a financial tension of the weak small communities, which on the one hand, through the decentralisation of public services and on the other hand, by increased environmental awareness and thus a greater degree of environmental legislation – keyword: 'Natura 2000' – does it come true? First point: Contribution of countries to the zero deficit strategy. . I am pleased that under this government for the first time there was a very intensive discussion about a very primitive relationship in itself, namely that we can only reduce the tax and tax rate again in the medium term – now it was necessary at this level because fiscal consolidation has absolute priority – if we also reduce expenditure and costs. In turn, expenditure can only be reduced if you also reduce tasks. – This is a very simple connection. In the negotiations, the question was: How can the task of the public sector – the federal government, the Länder and the municipalities – be more efficient over the next few years, and what is the condition for reducing tasks so that expenditure can be reduced so that the tax and tax rate can be reduced again in the medium term? a focus. – We are confident that we will succeed if we observe these links. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now, on the second key theme of financial compensation, on the weak communities: For many years, a sad topic has been the graduated population key, which has been repeatedly criticized and also challenged at the Constitutional Court. The Supreme Court has said twice – in 1990, but also on 28 March 1990. September of this year – the graded population key was in itself constitutional, but it should be mitigated in its effects. I believe that what we now have aims to take account of this suggestion of the Supreme Court. With the introduction of a base amount per head of population of 102,30 S, rising to 1 000 S by 2004, this graded population key is weakened and reduced; that is no question at all. Only: Allow me to make a very critical remark in the direction of the representatives of the local authorities, namely the Austrian Municipal Government. It can only be a task of representing interests to achieve a balance of interests between their own members. However, when I hear some examples here, I sometimes have the impression that this balance of interests between financially strong and financially weak communities is obviously not fully successful in the Austrian community. It has told my colleague Hannes Zweytick, mayor of Styria, here, in his community, so that five street lights can be purchased there, a tombola will be organized. I can only say: It cannot do anything with the payment of benefits to the weak communities! – I would like to make this criticism publicly available to the Austrian community, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In conclusion, I would like to make the following request in the sense of increased environmental awareness on this matter: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very positive motion for a resolution. Mr President, I would ask him to be involved in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6647	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Stummvoll, Mr Mag. Trattner and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The voluntary time limit is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6671	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister, you once said something inappropriate on an appropriate occasion and called Parliament a "theater". That was a medium fat cap you stepped into. But I think you've seen your mistake. What is really a theatre, however, are the financial compensatory negotiations that have been taking place for several years. Even the fresh wind and whirlwind of the still young, but in the months of finance ministers, has not quite so young finance ministers have caused the desired effect. As one of my previous speakers has said, their announcements at the beginning of the year as to the possibilities for restructuring and the great deal of financial compensation have ended: Just don't do too much, or maybe the federal government will have to pay more. This may be a tactically wise process from the Federal Minister of Finance's point of view, but the result of these non-impacts is that instead of a larger throw, we have the usual herumdoctory again. You have also managed to diletate in the area of the drinking tax rate, because there is no clear solution. That's a manko. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To get into the matter and address the previous speakers: Your evidence here is becoming more and more peculiar. We are already used to the fact that you are censure various speeches by us and also by representatives of the SPÖ, but that the calls made by Mr Amon are already the basis of comparison for what has happened and what has not been done, which has not yet been fully worthy of your efforts. On this basis, you will certainly not be able to cancel the opposition! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I will no longer respond to your speeches! Should I ignore your speeches in the future?]] No, no, no, The last time someone held a taferl against me and pretended to be a sensible call, and I thought I could react to it. Now you are referring to colleague Amon to keep something up with Mr Van der Bellen. This is not a style in a debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But Parliament is discussion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Parliament is discussion!]] Mr Finanzminister! I have to come back to the teachers for a moment, because the thing in their drama is obviously not understood here. There is no point in addressing the arguments put forward by Mr Van der Bellen. If the wrong place is saved in this area, then you are producing exactly what you are constantly betting yourself, namely educational deficits and a much larger number of auxiliary workers than we would otherwise have – ceteris paribus, if we keep the current regulation. And where will that be? – And this is the next tragedy in this story: in the migrants area. That is to say, the ghettoization is being continued in this way. They refuse to respond to that, otherwise announce beautiful concepts and accordingly rush to the opposition. I really don't realize we have to let this happen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Very sensitive!]] Mr Finanzminister, on the matter of small communities and large communities and what is just and unfair. I believe that this cannot be answered from the distribution side, from the point of view of money alone. This is the malaise of the financial settlement negotiations that the horse is stowed from the wrong side. There should once be a serious discussion of which tasks will be carried out meaningfully by which local authority. Then you can talk more wisely about the sensible financial instruments and allocation keys. But that's completely missing. You didn't get that into these negotiations. Instead, state-of-the-art debates are constantly announced and proclaimed, which have not yet taken place. We will be very interested in whether this dialogue will then be a real dialogue – in contrast to the budget dialogue. But as far as this is concerned, we have some suggestions to make. I can also not take away the responsibilities of the financial burden and the poverty of small communities in part. In fact, the failure is that the principle of first looking at what is a meaningful task is not followed. If regional development, spatial planning and environmental legislation in the context of country policy look the same as it is at present, then it must not be surprising that small communities are overloaded in such a way. It will lead to the disintegration and uneconomic regional development, and that is exactly the wrong thing. This is the only way to meet this financial need. What does that look like at the moment? – If there are legislative provisions that require moving to any remote farm on any mountain miles long canal tubes, because the Federal Government is unable to amend the funding guidelines in this area, then the cost of funding in Austria is of course leading to billions of costs. Of course! But this is where the failure lies. This is first upgraded, and then the funding spaces for the small communities look different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The farmers are still free of the connection fees!]] I don't want to say that it makes sense to look at the distribution key. On the contrary! But this exercise should be done first. The same applies to road constructions. When devils come out, you must not be surprised that local roads have to be asphalted in ever greater length. I wonder who's really interested in it. There is at least one profiter for miles of canal construction as well as for the dispersal strategy: These are the large suppliers of asphalt and concrete. Actually, with this approach, you support this – how am I supposed to say? – Conglomerates because in Austria a concentration process is under way, as it is hardly detectable elsewhere, as well as the corresponding cartel formations. You almost want to think that with this kind of policy, you're trying to get these cartels out of the money. The financial compensation as such is what is so to speak in the back. In the first place, it is not possible to discuss and address a successful reform of tasks. Let me give you an example: If, as in Styria, it is managed that the shares for the municipalities are still partly retained by the state government and are further distributed through the allocation of the needs to the communities, and then a black and red feudal system is still being practiced there, which is looking for the same, then we know exactly where we are going. Then we get there that Mrs. Landeshauptfrau and Mr. Landeshauptfrau's deputy move through the countries, and with amounts not less than 10 million Schilling, we do not promote the most careless projects. They are then appointed honorary citizens there. It costs millions and millions and millions. There are enough examples to show. Such an approach is reprehensible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There would have been a lot of failure either to give these funds directly to the communities or finally to introduce criteria, which is, where appropriate, supported. But it is certainly not happening that, as in the last municipal election campaign in a red municipality of the black mayor candidate, there is a post-cast in which: If now a black mayor, then the woman head of state will ensure that a multi-purpose hall is built there by 15 million schilling. What's that supposed to be?- Oh, my God! In a small town where next door there is not even the corresponding settlement density that one could think that this multi-purpose hall could be filled by 15 million without carbus caravans? These are meaningless prestige projects that promote the black and red Land icons and their alternates. That's how it works! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: You don't build a multi-purpose hall around 15 million! There you get a clubhouse!]] Perhaps it is different in Upper Austria or especially in Grieskirchen. I like to be taught a better person. Talk to the woman head of state! It does not subject itself to any particular criteria. The money is thus forgiven, and in retrospect one learns about the data protection – this is becoming more and more fun! – not even which communities have received money in detail for what. This is a feudal system of money allocation, which belongs to the fastest off. You can save a lot of money. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm the last one to come to the graded population key. In this regard, if you know what the distribution of tasks between the communities is, you can be truly shared, depending on the order of scale, compared to the countries and the federal government. I must admit that we have – and I do not think this is a shame – also no rigorous and uniform position in the Greens, as far as this is concerned, because the matter is being mistreated. But what you're doing with these negotiations, that's the Doctorate to the square. Although the rate of the population key is relativized in the way in which the base amount is increased. It is arithmetically easy to understand that this relativizes the whole. In the next few years, however, the difference between the middle and larger communities will only be rebalanced with special needs allocations. Then what's the whole game for? This is an inconspicuous palawatsch who is getting worse and worse instead, and you have to answer that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In conclusion: Put the horse down from the right side! We wanted to enter into a dialogue on this matter, Mr Finanzminister, but so far we have not succeeded. Perhaps we can be more hopeful of this than was the case in the budget dialogue. I remain in this good hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6833	Next, Mr Magistrate. Trattner. The voluntary time limit is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6855	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Kogler, Parliament is living from the debate, and we are naturally referring to the speeches made by the previous speakers. Otherwise, it would be like in school, where the student is going forward for examination, praying down an essay, and there is no debate about it, but he gets only one note. I believe that debates should be held here in the House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What this House is about today is the last package in the course of... – No, he has not censored, he has only responded to your debate contribution. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Tell Dr. stupid! The stupid always forgives the notes! The superinstructor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Cynical!]] Mr Van der Bellen, don't be so sad! You're not the quiet professor you always represent. The last time you showed yourself very aggressive to me. You're not the quiet doctor! We've already realized what's in you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I apologize!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What did he do? What did he do, Doctor?]] However, the outcome of negotiations involving several partners is crucial, especially when considering the starting point. If one takes into account the starting position in the present case: When the financial compensatory negotiations started, the countries wanted to have some 15 billion schilling in addition to the original agreement. We now have a package in which the contribution of the countries to the general budget is 29.5 billion schilling. The countries generate a surplus of 0.75% of the gross domestic product. The commitment to housing development has been extended in terms of scale, infrastructure investment or investment to achieve the Kyoto objective. That could be in your mind, Professor Van der Bellen. The Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities have also agreed that they are seeking reform measures, that a structural reform group should be set up, which in the coming years will put administrative savings in the order of 3.5 billion schilling, savings to be realized in the future. In order to maintain the full cost-replacement of financial compensation, we are prepared to contribute 3 billion shillings per year to the previous 2.29 billion shillings by the countries. This is a nice package, and this package has also been taken into account for the poorer communities by increasing the financial allocations for the poorer communities. Of course, it's always too little. We understand that, we all understand that here. But this is a contract between three partners, and in a contract between three partners, there is no single rule in the form that one determines what to do, but it is a compromise that has been made between these three territorial authorities. The outcome of the negotiations, which has been achieved here, can certainly be seen, in so far as everyone wanted to make a successful contribution to the budget consolidation measures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you look more closely at the package of measures, you can see: The income of the municipalities, the base amount, has increased from currently 102,30 S per head in 2001 to 602,31 S per head, and then this base amount is increased to 1 000 S per head in three stages until 2004. This means that consideration has also been given to the financial needs of the individual communities. It is also important to make it clear that there is not only a one-way link between the federal government and the municipalities, but also that the countries in this area were required to take account of the municipalities, or the countries, together with the municipalities, have also made it possible for these financial compensatory negotiations to be successful. We understand that there is not a 100% agreement on the part of the small communities, but we have tried to reach a common package – countries and communities. The result is not 100% the way the small communities have presented themselves, but I think we have reached a compromise. There will also be a further compromise in order to help the smaller, financially weak communities, while "small" and "financially weak" are not equal. There are also many small communities that are financially well equipped. Finally, I would also like to thank these local authorities for the fact that, on the basis of the tax measures, additional tax revenue for the federal government is due to the structural adjustment laws. The countries or local authorities have agreed to accept a single base amount in the order of a billion schilling as compensation for these tax increases. On the whole, this package is a solid, good negotiation result, with which everyone can live well. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore be happy to give its approval to this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6952	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e6974	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! If you are honest, my two experts on the government bank, then you have to admit that today you are not supposed to feel well in your skin, not feeling well as professionals, not feeling comfortable as very business-friendly people, not feeling well also as the Federal Finance Minister and as the Federal State Secretary. But you're sitting there because you're elected politicians and you have to hold your head for a compromise that you can't stand behind personally or politically. But that's it! [[Abg. Böhacker: What you put under it is incredible!]] I've put myself very much into you, and I'm arguing that too. This contract, which my previous speaker presented as quite supportive, is at the front and the back. One of my previous speakers, Werner Kogler, has already mentioned some aspects. There are many mayors sitting here in Parliament on the side of the ÖVP, where many federal politicians sit – but who still derives the great benefit from these financial compensatory negotiations? – They are the heads of state, they are the political leaders of the ÖVP, and it is the political leader of the FPÖ. These are the winners – the winners even inside because there is a woman under them – and this is above all a great winner. On these altars of national finances, the power policy of the heads of state and the head of state in Styria, money is offered in vain. Numerous examples were cited. Minister Grasser! I had the hope that, as a comparatively unconsumed minister, you would also develop a certain impact in the sense of an efficient transformation of financial policy. You know very well that our billions are mostly going to the wrong channels through the financial compensation. The financial compensation is the bag with the biggest holes, where the taxpayers escape you, where you could have finally started. We would have offered you opportunities, but the dialogue was not possible. It is urgently necessary to repair this fully felt share tax system in general and to assign fixed percentages of total income to countries, municipalities and the federal government. Then there's no big deal, then the horse trade stops, where you stay on the track and where the small communities also stay on the track, where even a big city like Linz now stays on the track permanently because of the beverage tax, because of the lower demand allocations from the federal government and also because of the changed population key. You should have sat there, and I would have trusted you. Unfortunately, you did not have the necessary enforcement, as it remains with the Heads of State of the ÖVP and your Mr. Haider. I can now do this by an example: Housing and public transport. Residential development – that was the treasure chest of the Republic, if I may call it so, and you have abolished the dedication of purpose without clearly declaring what the countries are now to pay for. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is a fine agreement that the Kyoto target should now be financed through the countries, that the Kyoto target should be financed from this area. But what is the clear agreement, for what and how much exactly? Look at what is happening with regard to the abolition of the commitment to housing, especially with regard to the sale possibilities of the loan stands! Look at this. I brought you this. Upper Austria: 44 billion schilling, please, have given you to the country Upper Austria. These were the loans: 44 billion! These sell the Upper Austrians, and they get 22 billion. What do they do with it? They discharge – that's 7.5 billion – and the rest they place on the high edge, feed on a fund, and the fund is used to build new road projects. This is Kyoto Upper Austria! I took this brochure with me: The new road projects. I'd like to list them to you, but the time is too short. I'd like to give that to you, though. That is what you have done, and that is totally counterproductive! They give them funds, resolve their commitment to purpose, introduce no new, clear commitment to purpose, and what are the countries doing? – They place them on asphalt or install these means in channels. In some cases, the small communities, which are called on by this new scheme to continue to encourage the dispersal, continue to pursue comparatively unecological construction policies and spatial planning policies. That really excites me, and I regret that you have failed completely! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last concrete point: Transport. There was a fine resolution from the National Council that a working group needed the federal funds for the expansion of public transport – also a climate protection measure! - to raise. It was difficult to get the working group together and difficult to get a result. Ten billion schillings are then placed on the table as demands. And now what is it? – Financial compensation: No word of local transport, all of this will be left to the countries! They are left with the means of housing, and with this they could also finance public transport. What they actually do are road constructions, and local transport remains on the track. Secondly, At the federal level, it is no longer necessary to ensure that the countries invest properly in this direction, but at the federal level they also reduce the federal subsidies for local transport and for school-free travel. These are a life nerve of public transport because they are a fixed financial revenue. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be necessary, and then the Mr. Barazon would not attest to you of the "Salzburger Nachrichten": "Govern old, very old." And then I wouldn't tell you: Financial compensation old!, but then I'd say to you: You're taking courageous steps. Then you could also say: A good day also begins with a good financial compensation. – But unfortunately this is not the case!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7070	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7092	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! Federal Minister of Education! Federal Minister of Science! [[These three speeches are all addressed to the Federal Minister Mag. Grasser.]] Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister Grasser, you have obviously acquired all these areas and are also top university reformers, as I have taken from the "Kurier" or the university reform working group. Mrs. Minister's reply in committee was delicious. I don't know if you've been told. She meant more sensible, he's sitting in there, so I don't have to tell him again. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So about the argument. This is a serious matter, and I think the Minister of Finance knows what this package of teachers is all about. This is not just about 4,000 or 7,000 teachers to be saved in the next few years, but about the way it happens, it is about the dishonesty with which it is happening, and it is about the speed with which you plan it. In the Government Declaration and in the Coalition Agreement, you said that education remains unaffected by the personnel savings. That's what your speakers, your ministers, gave the best and knew it wasn't right. This is the problem that we have in particular with this, and it is therefore necessary to point out the consequences of this package when it is implemented in the way that this government is doing – and I am not sure what it is doing. Federal Minister! You certainly also have the edition of the "Kurier" of 13th. In December, the Minister of Education said that she wanted to do something different about the reduction of personnel than the reduction of the financial balance when it came to this pact. And we would like to give you the opportunity to act differently, perhaps more intelligently, and not at the expense of the most socially weak. Who's going to make this reduction? It is, I think, totally irrelevant whether we are talking about 4,000, 5,000 or 7,000 teachers. The aim is to reduce funding for children with non-German mother tongues. For example, the state of Styria is disproportionate in the field of special education. The country of Styria, we know, is a model country, which reaches the special educational offers for children. It is exemplary, but in the special pedagogy it is 100 teachers' posts of 600, i.e. a fifth overall – that is, if you look at these calculations – because the offer there was better than perhaps in the Austrian average, but it was really better for the children. And this one hits it! It is the support offered to children who have learning difficulties, and the small schools in the country – let me say this as a Tyrolean MP – which of course also have a higher need for teachers. What you will save yourself, Minister of Finance, if you then have to pay for long journeys under the family tax compensation law, where your financial profit is, you really have to calculate it in detail. And even this win can be doubted. So they meet the weakest, because a person who has a high income can help himself can also get an offer for his child. But those who cannot afford this depend on high-quality public education. That is why we propose an amendment to the fact that the remuneration costs for the national and religious teachers – that is to say, § 4 – continue to maintain those student relationships with the teachers who have so far paid for the planning posts. They have announced a certain willingness for more intelligent solutions. If there is such a situation, of course we are also happy to continue to talk. Otherwise, those figures already in the law and in this regulation on planning sites will have to be applied. We call for this request to be accepted, because it concerns the quality of education, the quality of education for our children, and it is also about providing a high-quality offer in the school system for those who are socially weak. That's what we're doing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7167	I announce that the amendment tabled just in its core points was presented in writing and is sufficiently supported by Dr Niederwieser and comrades. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it will also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7245	I also announce that the motion for a resolution tabled by the previous speaker by Dr Moser, friends and friends is sufficiently supported and under negotiation. Mr Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7270	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Moser and Mr Kogler asked for dialogue on the one hand. I very much regret that they are not dialogueable insofar as they are not physically present. That is why I cannot really do what Mr Trattner said, namely to address her speeches all the more. I'd better if they were here. I can tell you, however, the following: Mrs Moser has assumed that we, the Secretary of State and my person, cannot feel well. I say to you, with the exception of a somewhat restricted vote on the basis of a fluffal infection, that I feel particularly comfortable at the moment, and I can say that after consultation for the Secretary of State. That is why we feel very comfortable, ladies and gentlemen, because we can present to you today a legislative proposal which will also make possible the principle of an agreed financial compensation this time, a packed financial compensation that everyone concerned has agreed to. That is to say, in addition to the government coalition, we have also established a fundamental consensus with the heads of state of social democracy, we have also established it with the town government, we have also established it with the municipal government. This is because everyone is convinced that this financial compensation will change structures in our country, that this financial compensation will allow the provision of resources to achieve essential tasks in the interests of the people of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is right to be proud to be able to present a financial compensation, which all the countries that the municipal government contributes to, which the municipal government is involved in, and which also the Federal Government and the majority of Parliament – as I hope – can contribute, because we know that we are thus creating the greatest possible balance of interests for our people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If it was said here that it should have been a big throw, I am convinced that it is a big throw. But if one interprets "great throw" in such a way that we should have developed a completely new financial balance with our negotiating partners, that is, no longer building on the basis of the year 1997 and the previous financial balance, as they have shaped this Second Republic, that we should have created a completely new set of rules, then, ladies and gentlemen, I must say quite frankly: This federal government has, I am convinced, a great reform force, this federal government is changing this country together with you, but I think it would be reasonable to say that we can fundamentally change and put on the head a rule that has been created over a period of more than forty years within half a year. This should have led to counterproductive results. In this respect, it is important to be able to present and, of course, to work in the next few years to make the financial compensation more transparent, comprehensible, and to arrange the financial flows next time, as it is to ensure a new financial compensation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we have achieved an objective: We have always said that we are committed to making a policy that also reflects on the next generations, our children and our grandchildren. That is why I can only agree with Mr Trattner, who said that it was necessary, above all, to thank the countries, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is a massive strengthening of a stability-oriented budget policy, which is made possible with this financial compensation. This financial compensation is also structural policy. And it is not old or very old government work that has been done here, but we simply have to see where we are from and what was the starting point for this financial adjustment. Ladies and gentlemen! We had and still have recorded minus 0.3 percent of the gross domestic product in the Stability Pact. This means that the countries, cities and communities can become indebted to around 10 billion schilling each year. At the beginning of the negotiations, countries, cities and municipalities submitted a national memorandum, which, carefully assessed, would have meant that the federal government would have had to pay at least 15 billion schilling in addition to the countries, cities and municipalities. However, we did not finish with minus 0.3 percent and not with a further 15 billion schilling to the countries, cities and communities, but we completed with plus 0.75% of the gross domestic product. These are at least 23 billion schillings, which will bring the countries into our Maastricht accounts, into the overall consolidation of the budget. To introduce these 23 billion shillings as a surplus in the budget is not, as some believe, a purely arithmetic function, a statistical task, because it is not a question of simply being able to represent how we achieve Maastricht objectives, but rather of making massive structural cuts in the countries. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] I can assure you that all countries now have a scrambled level of tasks that they are working on so that they can achieve these 23 billion schilling budget surplus. That is to say, there will be a number of disseminations in different areas. An example of this: We have concluded the basic agreement with the city of Vienna alone that the AKH and other hospitals will be distributed from the budget. And it is also private law, ladies and gentlemen, that means having a responsible management there, and, of course, that the cost situation is much stronger and much better than today. This surplus of 0.75 percent or 23 billion schilling is, of course, a structural change that is being made. Of course, this also includes the housing allowance mentioned. I believe that if you do a business, you should be a fair negotiating partner. We cannot therefore say that we want to get 29.5 billion schilling from the countries, cities and communities, and at the same time try to account for it for a second time. That is why we said: Of course, we keep housing promotion so up-to-date because it leads countries to a margin, and it does not lead to road construction programmes in the first place, but leads to debt repayment programmes. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we were able to achieve that not only the covenant says: We consolidate our budget, but that also and above all the countries, cities and communities say: We are trying to repay our debts, we are also trying to reach the criteria in the European comparison, namely to bring our total debt below 60%, and we are, of course, making a policy in the interest of the next generation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For example, it has said Carinthia: We're paying back our debts! There we are working on a debt repayment programme, and the housing funds are being used for this. Upper Austria also says: We're paying back our debts! The money, which goes beyond that, is tried to settle, and from interest – which was not possible so far – debt has so far been there, now the money is spent – which brings this money, one finances corresponding future tasks in the country such as research and development, education and infrastructure services. I believe that this is a very important step, an important step that will lead to a new Stability Pact with the countries, cities and communities. We will have to conclude this Stability Pact next year, while this 0.75 percent is not easy – and this was also our opinion with the Commission of the European Union – not only promised words, but we will put a legally binding penalty mechanism behind this 0.75% surplus of gross domestic product – a legally binding penalty mechanism! –, so that the population knows: [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] What's out here, it's actually being observed! We did it – and that is why I am surprised at the position of the Green Group; You once told me that Kyoto was a special concern to me at budget discussions – we have now managed to change housing promotion, to stop using it only for housing. We know that the housing performance of some 60 000 homes that have been used in the past will fall to 40 000 and is therefore free of funds, and we have achieved that the countries have agreed to use housing funds in order to achieve the overall social-politically important Kyoto objective. They have also declared themselves ready to improve social security in the area of housing promotion, since they know that it is strongly redistributed into the upper third of income. Therefore, essential objectives that we have always pursued have also been achieved in this area of housing development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Over this 23 billion schilling or 0.75% surplus contribution, we have achieved a structural and task reform commission. We have always said that we feel responsible for remodeling the administration. We have said that the population has a right to try to get out Hierarchy levels, to make the administration narrower, to make them more efficient, to make them more service-oriented, to build a service state. We have managed to reach an agreement with the countries, cities and communities that will mean that next year we want to achieve 3.5 billion schilling in savings on the expenditure side of the federal government, because we will reorganise relations between federal states, cities and municipalities and perhaps be able to abolish the indirect federal administration once and take other fundamental steps. We did last week the kick-off of this group, which we set up between countries, cities and communities, so that we can reorganise the administration in Austria also in the relationship between the federal states and the Republic. I believe that this is a very, very important structural component, which we have included in the financial compensation, and that something that the population has been calling for for many years has now also come into a realizable proximity. This is, in turn, a point that brings with it substantial structural changes – in accordance with our considerations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not natural for countries to do beyond the 2.29 billion schilling – the countries are already already making 2.29 billion schilling consolidation contributions – 3 billion shilling as an advance deduction that is lost to the countries in cash. They do this so that we can create the overall consolidation. This is not a matter of course, and that is why we have to say from here the three heads of state, with whom we have mainly negotiated – the head of state Stix, head of state Sausgruber, head of state Jörg Haider – that they really have this willingness to contribute and co-form this financial compensation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Just as little of a matter of course, for the first time – only to see what structures we have really changed and what will be available here – it is from the countries that the countries will be prepared to receive from the total revenue we will receive through our package of measures under the budget accompanying legislation – that is, in about 30 billion schilling – not their usual share by means of the incomes and advances they have always received, and they are willing to take only one billion of the 30 billion and thus in favour of the federal government for additional revenue for the countries. This is a clear signal that the countries, and all the countries in Austria, have a very strong share of what the Federal Government and the majority of Parliament have drawn up here as a course. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to comment on the graded population key, which, as I know, is a very sensitive issue, also in this House. Of course, you could reach more and more – even for the communities. It has been blamed for once saying that I do not interfere because otherwise we are the payers. We have, of course, negotiated with the Municipal Government and with the Municipal Government, and I believe that the result – even if not everyone is fully satisfied – can really be seen as an entry into an essential change, especially for the communities. At the beginning of the negotiations, there was the position that the municipal government was attempting to increase the proportions that the municipalities receive per citizen in about 102 s, to 1 000 s until the end of the legislative period. That was the goal. The town government has said, let's split this up into two legislative periods. So to carry out this change in eight years, that was the goal of the Municipal Federation, in four years was the goal of the Congregation. I thought we were going to meet in the middle that this would be a compromise. One has not met in the middle, but with a help that the federal government has provided by promising additional money to the cities, it has become possible and one has achieved that one can really increase this proportion to 1 000 s within these four years and thus, in a total of 1 billion schilling from the cities to the municipalities, thus bringing the weak communities into a much better position than they have today. So in this relationship too, we really did something. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Seeing the problems, after this consensus, we have also tried to deliver signals by providing, for example, 60 million schilling – 30 million for the particularly weak communities and another 30 million schilling for all communities and cities – in addition. In doing so, we want to show that the financially weak communities are really a concern for us. One important point has still been raised, namely the topic of state teachers, which I now want to deal with at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! I think if you want to have a fair and objective discussion, then you should lead it in such a way that you put all the facts on the table. First fact: They have not mentioned that the number of students in Austria will decline dramatically in the next few years. What are the results of declining schooling? Actually, I think they should also be able to lead to fewer teachers in our country. Second point: You have not mentioned the limitations in the area of flexibility we have in Austria, as it is about the efficiency of our school system. Mr President, I would like to ask you to give the correct answer. It is not true that if you throw something into the top, you actually get more education policy and more efficiency for the students below. I ask you: Where do you see – I have never seen this in the entire budget debate – I have not seen it in the financial balance even now – at all opportunities for savings measures in our country? I think you don't see them anywhere, but at the same time you're accusing us that we're taking the revenue side more strongly than the expenditure side in the drawing, which is not true. But here is an example where we try to consolidate and stabilise on the expenditure side without the maximum number of students being subject to a change. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's not true!]] First of all, I should like to quote Mr Häupl, who says that the national financial advisers have drawn up a compromise which is acceptable to him, which he agrees with; just as Stix, the head of state, has agreed to. Head of State Häupl also has a different position than you explained. He says that for Vienna, the agreement reached means a saving of 700 posts in the field of state teachers. Quote Häupl: "That will also be met in Vienna, but also posts which have not been occupied so far." . So this dissent you have with Mr Häupl is obviously continuing in the field of national teachers because you do not have the same position here. But I'm allowed to bring in something you didn't say. You are making a non-serious policy for me, as you say here, it is an attack on the education system, but not on where this education system stands in the international comparison. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have introduced a new classification in the financial balance and we have determined how many students should come to a teacher. In the field of primary school it has been 13,83 pupils on a teacher so far, in the future it will be on average 14.5 students per teacher. So you see, these are arrondissements that do not change worlds. But I can give you an international comparison. In Germany, Mr Van der Bellen, a teacher is 22 students – not 13,8 or 14,5, but 22 students! – in the USA there are 20 students, in Holland there are 21 students. This is just to explain to you how good we are with these relations that we have agreed on in international comparison. This will continue to pave the way for education policy in this country. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (to Green) Again what learned!]] I can call you an OECD comparison so that you have 28 developed industrialized countries here compared with inside. Secondary level 1 – this is an OECD division; Students between the ages of 10 and 14 have been addressed here, these are the main school and the AHS area in this age group – we have a relationship that allows for a teacher to come to less than ten students. In Germany there are 16, in the USA there are 17, and in the Netherlands there are 15. In Austria, under ten, ladies and gentlemen! Here we are talking about an attack on the education system in Austria, which is our policy that you are doing here! I hate that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally – because I really don't want to be told, because everyone knows that I have in all directions any dialogue that can only be done –: If Mrs Moser gets out of here when Mr Kogler goes out of here and says he hopes for a dialogue, he misses a dialogue with the Minister for Finance, then I may write to you, Mr Deputies, in your master book: You haven't even called the Minister of Finance, you haven't even called the Secretary of State, you haven't even tried the dialogue once. There were two of us who invited to budget talks – twice! We have conducted the budget discussions on our premises to involve you in order to provide you with information, and we have not encountered any particular creativity of your proposals there. So if you're talking here about your suggestions that you're creative, please contact us, then tell us you want to talk – but don't say from the speaker's desk, we refused the dialogue! We have started the dialogue from our side, you haven't done this once!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7429	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7459	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The government programme of our Federal Government explicitly states that there will be a reform of the graduated population key. The people in rural areas, in our small communities, are just as valuable as the people in the big city. This principle of equality is set out in Article 7 of our Federal Constitution. This principle has not always been taken into account in the distribution of federal tax revenues to municipalities, otherwise it would not be possible for Vienna, for example, to have received 12 000 S per person per year, but Tyrol only 8 000 S. In the federal state of Tyrol we have 279 municipalities, of which only seven count over 10,000 inhabitants. All of them are aware that two thirds of the revenue comes from the financial compensation, especially in rural communities. Due to the distribution of municipal income, 60 percent of the population key – a post-war relic – lost a municipality, ranging from ten years to around 12 million in the past, about 1 000 inhabitants in Schilling, 5 000 inhabitants around 60 million in Schilling, and 9 000 inhabitants in Schilling. The rapid development of our rural area, i.e. increasing industrialization and especially growth in tourism, has resulted in many infrastructure facilities having to be oversized, of course, because there are not only residents there, but thousands of guests who like to travel to us on vacation. Increasing mobility requires a constant expansion of our road network and in the valleys of course an avalanche and wildlife cultivation. The protection of our environment, which is our capital in the periphery, naturally places high demands on water supply and above all on wastewater disposal. And I, Mr Kogler, am proud that our communities have made asphalted streets and canal buildings for us right into the periphery. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In order to illustrate the cost of a small community – that costs are exploding in these areas, many studies are also evidenced – I would like to give an example. In a large city, 1.5 to 2.5 metres of canal canal can be built per inhabitants, in rural communities this length can be up to 16 metres. And if I tell you that a running meter costs 3 500 S to 5 000 S, maybe you will understand me when I say that we must now and also in the future ensure that our communities are of course supported in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the gradual increase in the base amount from currently 102 S to 1 000 S by 2004, an important step has been taken towards a fairer distribution between agglomerations and rural communities. For Tyrol, this means more than 100 million schillings for rural communities until 2004. I am glad, Minister of Finance, Secretary of State, that you have gone in the right direction, but I wish that we do not stand, but that we continue to work dynamically on this reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Our rural area is our capital, a jewel that makes Austria so life-worthy and lovable. However, this capital can only be maintained if we strengthen small communities if agriculture and tourism work to preserve this capital. That is why there is a need for special support for rural areas, and I ask you to keep this in mind in future decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7519	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7541	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! "Whatever people do right is an art that no one can." . I do not think that the problem of financial settlement negotiations can be better described. Financial compensatory negotiations, i.e. the struggle for the fairest possible distribution of fiscal resources, were in the past and will never be a honey lick in the future, and demands from the Greens can always be easily drawn up from the green table, without any responsibility for them. If the outcome of these financial compensatory negotiations is to be assessed objectively and objectively, then we must consider: How was the starting situation? Austria must reorganise the State budget: 2 200 billion Schilling State debt, 100 billion Schilling alone annual interest service, 100 billion Schilling consolidation needs, 5 billion Schilling tax failure by abolishing the drinking tax at the municipalities caused by the flatness of the old governments, 1 billion schilling failure by reducing the advertising tax. On the other hand, a demand package of countries and communities in billions. In addition, it must be noted that expenditure on health policy, for the social sector, has increased almost explosion-likely, particularly in the communities in recent years. All this together first gave a picture that showed: That's a very insoluble task! Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a huge act of strength by the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State, but also a grumbling degree of consensus on the part of the countries, cities and communities in order to take up this financial compensation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All of us, including you from the opposition, should not practice criticism here, but, quite the contrary, from this speaker's point of view, should also thank all the financial compensation partners for this constructive cooperation. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Zweytick.]] I have talked to many mayors, local representatives and financial representatives of communities who have made a high expectation in these financial compensatory negotiations, in terms of greater distribution justice. Could this wish also be fulfilled by the communities in this financial compensation? – If one believes the representatives of the Austrian Municipal Government, then this very high goal has been achieved to a high degree. Dr. Hink, Secretary General of the Austrian Congregation, says: Financial compensation for the years 2001 to 2004 – a major step towards greater justice. – A big step, that's what someone from the congregation says. – The allocation of tax resources has succeeded in providing additional resources for the municipalities of Austria, and in particular for the small municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. Or the head of the municipality, Mayor Mödlhammer of Hallwang, in representation for the municipalities: We have achieved three main objectives: There is more money for the communities, the distribution is much more just, and the partnership between the large and small Communities are not broken. – This is what the representatives of the Federal Government say. Of course, one could ask for more and more, and every financial compensatory partner would have special wishes, but we have to stretch here to the ceiling and implement the possibility. It is particularly gratifying – and this makes us hope for the future – that agreement has also been reached on the need to do everything possible to make the financial compensation no longer according to graded population keys from 2004 onwards, but rather task-oriented. That should be a goal that we should all pursue with emphasis. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For then, ladies and gentlemen, we will be able to solve those really critical cases – Mr Auer will probably be very drastic here, right now – which are still in existence in a large number of cases in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7620	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7641	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by quoting from a press release by my colleague, Mr Niederwieser, from 1995 that the teachers are apparently presenting such an interesting topic in this debate today. At the time, Niederweiser proposed, as a measure against teacher unemployment and, on the one hand, to keep the costs under control, that primary school teachers and AHS teachers should use each other, reduce the hourboard and increase part-time work. He could also imagine, so it goes on to say in this issue that so-called research years are being inserted at the educational academies. In the school sector, there are enough research areas, he said at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the right time to remember because the Minister of State has brought the positive examples of comparisons in the field of teachers from those countries where there is a total school for the 10- to 14-year-olds, and this has been a problem in Austria for years. Unfortunately, our last coalition partner in the past has never been willing to work on the problem that we have a very expensive school system in this age segment, which even leads to the fact that school-resistant teachers who actually have a normal teaching obligation no longer need to keep their lessons at all, but so to speak as inactive school-resistant teachers go to school, not to teach there, but to go home and get their salaries for them. – This is, as it were, the perverted form of education in Austria. Over the years, we have tried to bring about an organisational harmonization of these two school systems in compulsory education. Unfortunately, this was never possible because Mrs Gehrer either did not prevail with her Christian trade unionists or did not have a strong interest in it. In any case, it is clear that this expensive school system needs reform and that it needs to be worked on. Unfortunately, it now looks like it just looks like: I do not think that the problem is being addressed very sensitively or not very elegantly. In itself, the financial compensation is always an overall work of art by three local authorities, all of which are not artists but, of course, because of fear that they could not agree at all, but always reach political agreement. And then there is this convolut, which then looks like it always looks. The word "objective debate" has already been quoted by some colleagues today. It would certainly be interesting to analyse once: What are the effects of the financial flows between the local authorities? What does it look like to change the distribution? Can this increase efficiency? Can you perhaps even reduce costs and still achieve good results? – So there should be a comprehensive simulation of these financial flows, so that we can really discuss them objectively, otherwise we always fall into the position: I'm the small community, I'm the big town, and we're so different. I also think that there should be a task analysis and that there must be a distinction between the municipalities. There are core tasks that each municipality has to perform, and there are tasks that have overregional or small regional functions. I am thinking, for example, of the town of Grieskirchen, which, of course, must carry out tasks beyond the core functions of a community and must also receive the necessary resources. I think it really is about detemorating a process that will probably last a few years – this process is not to be regulated from today to tomorrow –. The discussion should rather take place at a scientific level – politics should perhaps only be able to go down at the second level – in order to explore the really possible potential for reform, which we all do not know at the moment. Only then should we hold a political debate on this. In this sense, we will, of course, vote in favour of this financial compensation on the basis of the real situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7702	The next speaker is Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7723	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial balance, which is always the current issue, can not only be expressed in figures, facts, headlines and distribution keys, but also in a special way touches the emotional life and the emotional world of the politically responsible and the population. I am referring to the feeling of the disadvantage of the small and small communities vis-à-vis the large and large or rural areas in relation to the capital of the state and, subsequently, to the feeling of the discrimination of the federal states vis-à-vis the capital of Vienna. In principle, justice and equal opportunities cannot be made satisfactory for all and for the same period of consideration from my point of view, too different are the sizes and tasks of the individual cities and communities. It is therefore necessary, of course, to review and reorganise the financial compensation from time to time. This is also required by law. In principle, the government template also shows the consolidation objective of the Federal Government, and that the negotiators, even though not all of them could be fully satisfied, were able to reach a final agreement on the issue of financial compensation between the federal government, countries, cities and municipalities. I think, however, that all those involved have addressed the matter with great sense of responsibility and that they have also been subordinated to the general saving objective, which is generally important so that we can increase the scope of policy in the future and achieve the full investment of policy again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A new regulation, which I welcome, concerns the promotion of housing. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for receiving the magnitudes in this area. We Carinthia are very much dependent on the construction industry. The construction industry has a large share of the overall economy in Carinthia, so it is extremely important that these funds have not been reduced. Although the large construction companies have the opportunity to switch abroad, they also receive orders abroad, the medium-sized companies cannot do so. Therefore, they depend above all on these resources and depend upon them. I believe it is important that the commitment of purpose in this area be abolished in the future and that the design of the countries is thereby strengthened. I think that we should also trust the countries and know that they not only emphasize and asphalt, but also renovate and implement meaningful projects in housing, for example. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The return flows resulting from the promotion of housing and housing renovation will in future no longer be subject to federal legal obligations. I think that countries will act responsibly and consolidate the budget. They will not, for example, carry out one-off expenditure in the social field, but will, above all, implement future-looking and meaningful projects. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, the reorganisation of the financial compensation first brings the participation of the countries in the consolidation of the federal budget, second, a more balanced distribution of the total funds and thirdly more freedom for the countries as regards the use of housing funds. Another positive step is taken in relation to the federal, state and local authorities. I think we should go together!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7779	The next speaker is Mr Knerzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7800	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! In principle, the refunding of income from the federal government to the municipalities is an essential part of the municipal budget. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Smaller municipalities have higher per capita infrastructure costs due to the low population density, which are scarcely equal to revenue. The new law creates a better balance between large and smaller communities. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The financial compensation shall be as follows: To date, the financial compensation law of 1997 has been the basis of the 1996 Structural Adjustment Act, which regulates the financial compensation for the years 1997 to 2000. The new Financial Balance Act empowers countries and municipalities to withdraw contributions and fees in accordance with this Act at their own discretion. In addition, the new law regulates the division of taxes and taxes between the federal, state and local authorities. A significant improvement is also achieved by increasing the base amount from currently 102 S to 602 S. [[Call to the Freeman: Excellent!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One does not believe how many tasks one is constantly entrusted with in the congregation for which one cannot book revenue. This begins with the snow clearing, the road scattering, the street lighting, the mowing of the bushes and so on. In addition, leisure facilities such as swimming pools, children's playgrounds and much more are taken and used by people as natural facilities, without anyone thinking about what the exploitation and maintenance costs. As a result of the negotiations with Stadtbund and Gemeindebund, the Styrian communities will receive about 510 million more schilling over the next four years. According to the municipal government, this is a viable compromise and a solid basis. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7847	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7868	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! On Monday in the Committee on Budgets, the government groups and the Social Democrats decided on the new financial compensation scheme. As mentioned many times today, this is not really the big throw, and this makes it difficult for me, as the mayor of a small community, to agree. However, I will do so because there are various developments that seem to me to be positive. For example, I think it is good that tasks and expenditure are merged into one and the same entity, so that customers, buyers and payers will be identical in future. We can assume that this will have an impact on the promotion of housing and on the teachers of the state. Above all, the cover in the field of the state teachers is a fear that the communities will also be asked for cash, and certainly the question of posts and the closure of schools will also be put to the discussion in this context. In this context, the requirement must be made that all the necessary structural changes should not, at the expense of young people's training. One should rather discuss whether it is useful and economical to operate schools with three or five students. Mr Finanzminister! They have said in the Committee that the burden limit of the countries has been reached. – You’re right! I would add, however, that the burden limit of the municipalities has already been exceeded. If the countries make a contribution of almost 30 billion schilling, but only about 1 billion will be given due to the new revenue and the municipalities are obliged to the zero line, then nothing will ensure that the countries are not burdened with their share. The fact that housing aids are not reduced is all right. This makes it possible to secure the basic right to live. Especially in rural areas, where the income situation is not very positive, the promotion of housing is also an appropriate control element. I admit that the opening up of these funds to infrastructure measures and to the achievement of the Kyoto objectives can be positive. It must also be recognised, however, that certain dangers are involved if, for example, instead of promoting housing, infrastructure is driven forward or if road construction is to help achieve Kyoto objectives. There is a certain danger potential in it. These fears can only be reinforced by the fact that the return flows are intended to be expedient. The increase in the base amount is not even a compromise on the population key discussed, and the halving of the advertising charge is not exactly a particularly positive one. However, I consider the conversion of this advertising charge from less revenue to a higher head rate, which is the advantage of weak communities, border communities such as the Burgenland, which have no income, to achieve a slight improvement. It cannot be said that this scheme does not do anything at all, but it is far from sufficient for the small and financially weak communities. I am going to support the regulation on the constitutional provisions, but not because the regulation is so good, but because, in my view, this government is not very predictable and therefore there is a risk that this small advantage will be brought to nothing again at the next opportunity. That this government and you, Mr Finanzminister, are pursuing the goal of saving at the expense of the countries and communities, I think you are. This means, however, that countries – perhaps from the point of view of the countries, the municipalities are now somewhat easier to do – will have to impose burdens on the communities, so to speak, as compensation. That is what I see as a given, Mr Finance Minister, and that is why, as I believe, this arrangement is not a basis for a good partnership. The municipalities need secure and calculable revenue because they also have to obtain the entire infrastructure. They have to operate kindergartens, social institutions and the like, and there is no choice for the municipalities. They cannot operate or operate them, depending on whether they get more or less money. The fact is that there are communities that have to spend a good part of their free budget – a third and more – on the operation of their kindergartens alone. And that there are communities that have a free budget framework moving around zero is also a fact. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. I can't see that. I compared a few communities: one with 5,000 inhabitants, one with 1,500 inhabitants and one with 800 inhabitants. It is clear that when we convert the newly allocated amounts to head quotas, the municipality with 5 000 inhabitants receives a 40 percent higher head rate compared to the 1 500-inhabitant community; and compared to the 800-inhabitant community, there is even a 64-percent higher head rate. – So the effect is exactly the opposite! The increase in the base amount is therefore not proven to be appropriate to mitigate these injustices. For example, I would have imagined a significant change in the key to the population, and I would have expected a little more welcome, for example by removing the lower level. I will therefore vote for it because the Community has also agreed to this compromise and I do not wish to undermine this pact by a vote against it. I would also like to make no contribution to the fact that a rope is being driven between the large and the small communities, because this would ultimately only harm both sides. If two argue, there is always a third party who is happy, and I do not want to support that. I think it is important that the Community unity as a strong factor in the role played by the local authorities remains in the future. With my agreement, I expect the agreed task analysis to be on the table as quickly as possible, that this analysis will also be taken into account during the next negotiations and that the concerns of small communities will be taken more seriously during the next negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7952	The next speaker is Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e7974	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I fully agree with one of my previous speakers, Mr Kurt Gaßner, and I can confirm in many areas that what he has done here was objective and correct. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nürnberger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But one thing should be remembered, including Mr Kurt Gaßner: He said that the Federal Minister would not have interfered in the financial settlement negotiations. No one has done that before. Ladies and gentlemen! I still have a request to you, my colleague Kurt Gaßner: If you look at your needs assignments, I'd ask you not only to do this for a year, but to make a multi-year comparison. I can comfort you, though. If I ever be able to have as much municipal tax as you do, I don't need a need assignment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: I don't think so!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Over the past few weeks and months, I have often asked myself whether this outcome of the negotiations is acceptable to the partners involved in the financial compensation, namely the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities, whether it is a result that can be achieved, and also from the point of view of the overall objective, namely the re-establishment of the budget. What is the outcome from the point of view of the weakest, the weakest communities? Does it comply with the 1948 Financial Constitution Act, that law, which expressly demands that the financial compensation be fair? In the language of the legislators of the time, the financial compensation is fair if the limits of the capacity of the local authorities involved are not exceeded. This is obviously the case when the federal, state and local authorities are financially equipped by the financial compensation in such a way that they can carry out their tasks with the generated revenue. Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the Confederation, and I congratulate the Minister of Finance, for the essential agreement in this law is: The additional revenue from the tax increases to be decided in 2000 – and it should be said: "shinely decided" – remains entirely with the federal government. I would also like to congratulate the federal states, despite their contribution to the consolidation package, on "Weapon development funds – use possibility". Congratulations! I also congratulate the larger cities, and I do not show myself to Vienna alone, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to congratulate the city government, especially on the more than remarkable special arrangements in terms of advertising, the remuneration of the costs for the census, the special requirement allocation by the federal government, namely 190 S per capita in 2004 for cities with over 50,000 inhabitants. I also congratulate the municipalities – each 16 million schillings, ladies and gentlemen, but previously withdrawn from the communities. In my view, this is okay, although a positive result, at least a modest success, can be achieved for the smaller communities. How does the structure of a federal country look? Today it is so often spoken of by small, large and medium-sized communities. Upper Austria has 445 municipalities; 306 of these have fewer than 2,500 inhabitants. Over 70 or almost 70 percent of all inhabitants of Upper Austria live in municipalities and cities with less than 10,000 inhabitants. And what is the result for these smaller, financially weak communities? Ladies and gentlemen! Time and again I hear great: 500 S increase of the base amount next year, 1 000 S in 2000; 200 S increase per capita. Great! However, these 1 000 s will suddenly only be worth more than 200 s, because that is the actual net increase, Mr. Nürnberger. [[Abg. Nürnberger: After real?]] This is actually the net increase, ladies and gentlemen, and that is the reality. I had hoped I dreamed, but unfortunately that's the reality. I am not quite sure that this result, which the Federal Government has negotiated for us as representatives of our communities, will be in line with the 1948 Financial Constitution Act. I would also have liked to see a few ladies and gentlemen here today, who otherwise always go to this House, when it comes to small things that know exactly where to find when asking for intervention, support and so on. [[The speaker looks towards the gallery.]] – I don’t see any representative of the Congregation today! Maybe you have a bad conscience. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: They'll know why!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's something else: In these days I received a "net" letter from the Federal Government, whose content has to be questioned a little. In this letter, I quote: "Dear Mr. National Council! Mr. Mayor! We're looking for You are polite, but determined to refrain from making public false reports about the financing of the Austrian Congregation in the future. A discussion on the financing of interest groups could also lead to a public discussion of the representation of agricultural and forestry interests." - Quote. I must say, I'm "deeply impressed" by such a threat! I'm really "deeply impressed." [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steibl and Mr Großruck.]] First of all, I'm holding on: The financing of the representation of the interests of the Chambers of Agriculture will be shortened. Secondly, If a representative of the Chambers of Agriculture were to negotiate such a shady outcome for their farmers, we would have selected them for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There was a community day in Vorarlberg this year, and Vorarlberg is known to be far away from Vienna. "Strong sayings," they wrote in their own newspaper. I repeat, "strong sayings." [[The speaker keeps a newspaper article with the title "Congregations demand justice" up to date.]] That's what it says, among other things: The sad financial situation of the Austrian communities in the light of the current negotiations for a financial compensation... in the fight for the abolition of the graduated population key... under the pressure of a threatening repayment... determined the meeting of the Federal Board of Directors. [[Abg. May. Gaßner also keeps a newspaper article up to date.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Great, I thought. Strong men need the land! – Staying there is nothing but hot air. I now understand why our women in the ÖVP have created the saying: Strong, black, female! With this community covenant it is actually time for something else to come. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: The downgraded population key is a post-war relic. He was quite fair at the time. There were war damage to clean up and fix supply difficulties. At the time, no sports, cultural or leisure facilities were necessary in the country, and no one spoke of drinking water or wastewater treatment. And waste and environmental problems were unknown. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have the same situation, the same tasks and the same priorities as in the large rural communities. But because of the settlement structure – even with the best, with an orderly settlement policy – it is all the more difficult to raise the financial resources needed. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's right!]] In addition, "may" or must also be included in the financing of the hospital's contribution and in the social assistance associations for our old and care homes under national and federal legislation. We also have much higher costs in the winter service and other tasks. When it comes to the provision of finance, when it comes to numbers, you know where the small communities are. But in the distribution, the small communities are usually forgotten. I would like to express my gratitude and thank you for the fact that the Federal Minister for Finance and the Secretary of State had shown more welcome and more than the municipal government as a whole! I emphasize: more, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would also like to thank some colleagues. In turn, colleagues Mühlbachler and Trattner are mentioned, who have also shown understanding. I did not make voting in the Committee on Budgets easy. I don't want anything else and I didn't want to articulate anything but a cry for help to the small, financially weak communities. Ladies and gentlemen! Please believe me, if it is possible, that this amendment for the small communities is possible, according to § 21, to be a small recognition, then You have all our and my approval on these questions. However, it is clear, explicit and clear to the Federal Government that: This result has no one other than the congregation! The mayors will not forget that. And again to President Mödlhammer: We'll see you at Philippi's.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8114	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8136	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, you should urgently reform your representation of interest. You've shown this to me. A single meeting in Vorarlberg was not enough. Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensation for the years 2001 to 2004 is an important contribution to the re-establishment of the budget, essentially by the speakers of the opposition. The aim is to reduce the financial deficit to 0.75% of gross domestic product in 2001 in order to achieve the zero deficit in the following year. The responsibility for tasks and expenditure has been redefined in key areas, in particular as regards state teachers and the promotion of housing. [[Call: Such a Holler]] The countries agreed to contribute a further 3 billion schilling per year in addition to the consolidation amount of 2.29 billion schilling, while the Federal Government continues to replace staff expenditure for the secondary federal administration and compulsory school teachers. This is regulated by a fair determination of the class numbers. The Minister has already responded. With regard to the distribution of income to the municipalities, the amount of the pedestal per head will be increased to 1 000 s by 2004. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a small thing. In addition, the federal government provides needs for larger communities in 2001 of 185 million Schilling and 228 million Schilling annually from 2002 onwards. Furthermore – the Minister has already responded to this – financially weak communities are also particularly supported. The total income of the federal measures on the revenue side remains the same. However, countries are involved annually in a billion schillings. The Federal Government's grants for the promotion of housing are preserved. This has been an essential requirement of the federal states. The commitment of purpose is greatly expanded by measures to maintain and improve infrastructure, thus also increasing the scope of all countries. Ladies and gentlemen! This financial compensation is a success for the general state, for the federal government, countries and municipalities. Despite a significant contribution to the stabilisation of the budget, it has succeeded in maintaining the necessary financial scope for the countries. The countries thus support the consolidation of the Federal Government and also the policies of the Federal Government, in particular the policies of the Free Minister of Finance. And that's to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8170	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8200	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensation system has been established in Austria for over many decades and has proved to be a system of the fairest possible financial compensation between the local authorities, a compensation for taxes collected on the one hand and the distribution of tasks on the other. During several financial equalisation negotiations, I was on several sides of the table, and I know that it is always particularly problematic when everyone agrees. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of SPÖ) The Group does not have any great interest. The interest of the Group: 1, 2, 3, 4!]] A financial compensation that everyone agrees with or opposes has something for themselves, because matter is a conflictable one, and I note – if I am aware of Mr Auer's speech – that conflict-bearing in this area is often less Party-political than geographically located. She's settled depending on where you're from. Sometimes in such a discussion everyone is against everyone, sometimes many are against one. A particularly proven principle is that the little ones are against the big ones, because it is said that the big ones are going over the little ones when you postulate this in the discussion. Of course, it is particularly commendable to argue against Vienna in Klosterneuburg. Then the applause was given to the listeners. [[Abg. Böhacker: Everyone against everyone!]] This is the situation I have known for many years as a Vienna politician. I have therefore already noted with great interest that in the National Council of the Governments, the very legitimate interests of the cities – not the city of Vienna alone – have not been regarded by any speaker of the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party at least as legitimate in this discussion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] I therefore believe that it is very important to pay attention to this in the discussions in the municipal offices of the cities. Mr Auer! Half of the Austrian population, exactly 49 percent, if I have this right in mind, lives in municipalities of more than 20,000 inhabitants and 51 percent live in municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. [[Abg. Auer: 80 percent...!]] I was always of the opinion that a close majority is a bad one if one passes over the other. That is why I think it is basically positive if all the local authorities and their alliances work together. I am really the last one to want to protect Mr Mödlhammer in some way, because I am sorry for that, I know. This is how Austrian democracy works: If the Red Former Minister of Finance takes the Black Murder into protection, it's almost like a leaf shot. That is why I do not want to do so, but I would like to remind you of how Mr Mödlhammer argues that agreement, and that is why I come to the heart of the matter that I really want to talk about. Mr. Mödlhammer writes in the newspaper of the Congregation, as I believe, a very wise sentence when he says: Together we should be a model for all of us who are responsible in the congregations. It should accompany us not only in emergency situations, but in daily struggle for the interests of the communities. – Mr Mödlhammer also says: It has succeeded not to break the partnership between the large and small communities. - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is a purely strategic factor. As a learned local politician, I have always felt it – I was active in local politics for 28 years – as very painful that not only in the constitution, but above all in the reality of the political debate, the communities are actually the third territorial body, although, as I think, they represent the childhood of democracy. Without healthy, democratically functioning communities – no matter if they are Fischlham or Vienna – which can fulfil their tasks and at the same time teach and demonstrate democracy, the democratic community in Austria will not work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, I think that the communities – whether large or small – are essential elements of our democratic rule of law. Mr Auer! For this reason, I think it really is not wise if you take part in the game of the first and second local authorities, namely to stir up the sting of the dispute between large and small communities, in order to break the joint power of the third regional body – and the Finance Ministers and the countries reject it. One of the colleagues here said: In fact, I think it is really disgraceful that the mayors – best at closed doors – "enter in" at the national financial referent, so that legitimate interests are also dealt with through the allocation of needs. This dispute is quite embarrassing! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zweytick.]] Their strategy of trying to get more money at the expense of the large communities is the wrong way. That's the wrong way! The communities are strong only then and can only enforce their legitimate interests against the much stronger Confederation and the much stronger federal states if they work together and if they actually respect their common tasks, which are large and small. [[Abg. Zweytick:... is decisive!]] Mr Auer! That is why I regret the attitude you have taken here today. [[Abg. Zweytick: The graduated population key! That's the wound!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We criticize the redistribution from bottom to top!]] I would like to say the following: In principle, I have no objection to the 25 million schillings that the small communities are supposed to receive. However, my group will not agree to this request because, at the time of the agreement between the Federal Government, the countries and the local authorities, this discussion was on the table, because the large communities wanted to replace, for example, the costs of reporting which they would have to face. The Minister of Finance has rejected this. That is why this was not decided either. And I am not in favour of them being taken by means of other communities, by means that are actually dedicated to environmental protection. I would think that if we are joint local politicians and if we realize that these 25 million schillings are necessary for communities like Fischlham, then the Minister of Finance should open up the shack, then he should increase the income for the small communities at the expense of the federal government. You would have our consent to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8335	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen! I think the speaker deserves attention. Above all, it could be otherwise that another Member says we have a coffee house business here. I would therefore ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8356	I would like to thank you, Mr President, even though you cannot do so. My speech is primarily addressed to the government groups. They have noticed this too, and I am very grateful that they listen to me. Mr Auer! I would like to make one more comment on the graded population key. They criticise the instrument of the graded population key especially because cities are said to be better distributed than others. Therefore, the claim: Get away with the population key, this devil's tool! If the graded population key falls, the world is fine. [[Abg. That's not true!]] Mr Auer, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that as a municipal politician – although I have been Minister of Finance for three and a half years and now sitting in Parliament, my heart is in favour of local policy; and not only for the Vienna municipal policy, I have been chairman of the municipal political unit of the Social Democratic Party for ten years, because this is such a big concern to me – should be defined jointly, which the legislator understands as a task orientation. Clearly – I already know that you also have tasks to perform –: They simply can't discuss away that big cities have tasks that they also do for others and that you don't have in small communities. Therefore, I am also in favour of thinking about this early, as early as possible, before the emotions are in height, of these scientific works, which are now being deduced from the municipal and city states for the next financial compensation: What does task orientation mean? – Perhaps we come to a key of division for the third territorial body, for example, at the expense of the second. I really wonder why the countries actually have to take up such a rich bath of good finances and the mayors if they want to enforce their legitimate demands on the heads of state. In this consideration you have me as a partner – no question at all. But I would really ask you, Mr Auer: Go inside and think about whether your strategy is actually right, whether it is right that you can satisfy your legitimate needs as mayor of a small community only at the expense of large communities, or whether there are no other ways! Deputies! I looked at the figures of 1998 from a small community in Upper Austria and I wondered why you have been so vehement about changing the graded population key – not today, but four weeks ago, when you made this question very difficult. I read in the manual that there is a community there – it should be a very nice community in a very beautiful landscape area – which in 1998 had 1,088 inhabitants. The income was 7.3 million schilling, which was 6 680 s per head. The total expenditure of this municipality was 35 million Schilling in 1998. If the graded population keys were to be abolished if the amount of allocations for the needs were maintained, then this municipality would have received 8 130 s per inhabitants by 1.6 million schilling. It's Fischlham, you'll have noticed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I just don't think you're going so far that you're going to abolish the graded population key, but still leave the needs allocations, because then that would mean that the citizens of the small communities get more than those of the big ones. So we also give away the allocations of needs: Then they would have got 9 400 s to 3 million schilling more. And that's where I suddenly thought: What's the Auer against Fischlham? – In 1998, they received 4.5 million schilling assignments. [[Abg. Auer: How much?]] - 4.5 million! That is, Auer opposes Auer, harming the poor Fischlham citizens by 1.5 million. That's where I asked myself: What's the Auer against Fischlham? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] So: Let us think when we discuss, Mr Mayor, and find a solution that is just for everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8422	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8443	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! I believe that the last speeches have made clear and clear that many are tearing down this ceiling of the joint federal contributions and that there is argumentatively a return to life. Depending on whomever one gives his hearing intensively, one will also be able to give his inner consent. But I also say: The truth lies in the middle, as in almost all such cases where there are such polar opinions. Of course, Mr Edlinger, we appreciate the role of our cities. Of course, we know that in the big cities there are a number of tasks that we as small communities, as small cities, cannot fulfil at all. I think, for example, that the cultural offer, the offer to the students in the university area, is co-financed by the big cities, which we are very happy with and for which I thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Edlinger! You are right, this solidarity within the municipalities is certainly worth gold. But now I believe that the municipalities as a whole have also exercised this solidarity to the Minister of Finance and have taken it out of the state bag. Of course, I also include the countries. But I also think, Mr Edlinger, that there is a need for a certain degree of solidarity within the municipalities, not only the solidarity of the municipalities towards a third party, but also one within the municipalities. I already believe that the smaller communities and their representatives are very well documented in this solidarity. Mr Edlinger! In the Austrian People's Party and in the Freedom Party, we are primarily representatives from rural regions, of course we contribute to the constitutional security of the graduated population key, even if we may have to criticise at home. We also support the constitutional safeguarding of the regulation of the cities of the Statute. We also support the constitutional safeguarding of the distribution of advertising, although, if not so, we could without a doubt draw comprehensive value from this advertising charge. That is why, Mr Edlinger, I would expect that you will also receive a quantity of solidarity from those who are in fact in a situation where – which can also be proved well – they are most dependent on maintaining their financial strength through needs allocations, via tax return shares. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm bringing a motion for an amendment from my colleague Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner, Auer, Knerzl, Dkfm. May. Mühlbachler, Ing. Fallent and Großruck on the government template concerning a federal law regulating the financial compensation for the years 2001 to 2004 and making other financial compensation provisions (FAG 2001) and amending the 1997 financial compensation law and the 1989 housing aid grant law (379 of the Supplements and 379 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (405 of the Supplements). My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! That's about 25 million schilling. These 25 million schillings are intended to be allocated to all the municipalities in the category of up to 2 500 inhabitants who do not have the corresponding revenue, i.e. below the average, in order to provide them with additional money to finance their tasks. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I think you could go along with it, including with the approval of all those citizens who represent you at home. Peter Doppelmüller! You could sit at home and say out of your chest and with a calm conscience: Dear friends, I voted for you when it came to accepting this amendment. – I almost expect this to happen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensation will repeatedly give rise to criticism of all possible sides, where the lever would be used. Whether a task-oriented examination of wisdom is the final conclusion is to question. The fact is that very many municipalities, financially weak municipalities, can no longer carry out tasks due to the financial weakness. You have to recognize that too. But I think that it should be generally decided not to make the financial compensation ad act for the next four years, but to discuss it further, because I believe that it can be a very interesting thing – also in the sense of a structural reform that we want to support about our country – to seriously discuss the change of financial flows, so that all parties also have a corresponding perspective for the future. I am already aware that the graded population key cannot or could not be removed from today's tomorrow's agenda. This would be pointless because the big cities we need to maintain our structures in order to rob their livelihoods. Therefore: We already have an opinion on the interests of the cities, but we also expect this view to be addressed to the little ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, I would like to ask the Members of the Socialists and the Greens to support this amendment. It is not about large amounts that are shifted or changed, but about a valuable signal to the small and weak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8526	I announce that the request of the honourable Member, Dr. Stummvoll, has just been presented in the key points. Trattner and comrades were also presented in writing, are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. ==References====External links== 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed accordingly and, of course, shall also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8614	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law in 379 and 379 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Niederwieser and Mr Genscher have tabled an amendment. In addition, MEPs have Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades submitted an additional or amendment request. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Niederwieser and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(4). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government template in 379 and 379 of the Supplements. Whoever stands up for it, I seek for a positive sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. Deputies Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Trattner and comrades have submitted an additional or amendment request, which refers to Article 1(21) and (24). I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a positive sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft Government document in 379 and 379 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on the security of Austrian compulsory schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Trattner and comrades on urban water management. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. (E 52.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gabriela Moserund Comrades on the conservation of financial resources for the replacement of student transport costs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 387 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give a positive signal. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I expressly note that there is the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – I notice: He's mostly accepted. Once again, I expressly note that the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes are given. 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (358 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act 1955, the Investment Fund Act 1993, the Stock Exchange Act, the Banking Act, the Securities Supervision Act, the Capital Market Act, the General Social Insurance Act and the Labour Contract Act (KMOG) (407 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8773	We shall now proceed to item 4 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. Mrs Hagenhofer is the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8801	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although this capital market offensive law has a beautiful name, the Vienna Stock Exchange does not really help on the jump towards London. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll see!]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Ask colleagues Heindl!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Heindl knows!]] The present capital market offensive law – and this is also to be said to people – is a cave-out, a change in our social security payment system, in the area of pension insurance. It is also necessary to tell people that in this capital market offensive law of course employee participations in private foundations are favoured, Stock Options, so-called manager remunerations, components of manager remunerations are excessively favored. In the Committee, the Minister of Finance has meant that this is necessary, unless it is important, because only 3 percent of Austrians currently have the opportunity to participate in a private foundation in the context of employee participation, whereas in Europe it is 13 percent. – I don’t know if this is your goal, Minister of Finance. But fact is also, and you also said that people want it. However, you should also inform people about this – and this was done to me in the discussion – the importance of this provision with regard to employee participation, this tax exemption for all people. The question is: Who doesn't want a tax advantage? - They all want! But who will then finance the social system, the pension system? Are few left, or are there any more, do we look towards the USA, where this is handled very excessively, where there is only the poor and the rich, and no middle class? That should also be said. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's wrong!]] The fact is, Mrs Colleague, that the Fiscus – and that in times of massive burden on workers, a burden of 43 billion schilling! – in the case of a small number of persons, high tax revenues are missing – you cannot say that – and that these workers receive part of their remuneration as income from capital assets without burden through social taxes, i.e. no contributions to our social system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where does this path lead if there is no compensatory effect – and I do not see a compensatory effect –? – More and less will have to be paid into the social system! The private foundation model is becoming more and more a tax-saving model, Mr. Finanzminister. The question arises who is to pay taxes in Austria when taxes can be saved. An excessive tax advantage of stock options, i.e. part of manager remunerations, for a few can go to the millions – this must also be said. And because of the possibility of employee participation, of course, the pressure on workers to convert previously contributory and taxable components into risky values is increasing. If I may make a comparison: In today's January, a single rumor brought the German Telekom share in the USA from zero to a hundred, and no one expected that the counter-effect would be so massive that the value of the stock would fall so massively! – This is a sign that this path is not always the right one. It should be noted that this means that a secure social system financed by taxes and taxes is confronted with an unsafe, capital-related, speculation-dependent system. The fact is that in the event of a stock-option reward for the leadership level, the short-term profit maximization is top-premise, ladies and gentlemen. And everyone is closer to the shirt than the skirt. And, of course, the development of the course has a significant significance for the manager level in this form of remuneration and ignores the community à la longue. I do not want to abstain from a manager's statement, because it is very essential and reads as follows: Especially in such times, it is especially important for everyone to feel what a falling course means and work even harder! – That is to say, an elbow tactic develops, in which socially weak, sick people cannot cope. I would like to mention once again the example of the USA – only the poor and the rich – which is very clear. That is to say, Minister of Finance, that in this capital market offensive law these stock options are granted to managers, for a few few, excessive benefits, but the others, the rest who have to pay, for all others, will increase the wage tax, inheritance and property taxes will be increased, shares in the scatter will be released, cancellation and holiday compensation will be fully taxed. employee participation models for a few, because not every employee can join such a model, are favoured, but accident pensions are taxed. Mr Finanzminister – and this is also addressed to the colleagues of the government parties – such a policy of turning around, the redistribution towards a few less, the burden on the majority of people and a policy of destroying our system of payments certainly does not agree with social democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8897	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e8919	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be surprised that I have a completely different access to this subject than my previous speaker. Another access would also be to the left of the whole party, because, ladies and gentlemen, a functioning capital market is a location criterion, is a business card for an innovative, forward-looking economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You only need to do a situation analysis of the Vienna Stock Exchange, the result of this analysis is still unsatisfying, because although in recent years some things have happened – we have adopted some legal measures such as Insider Law, Takeover Act, Stock Takeover Act, Group Accounting Act, with which the accounting rules have been aligned to the international ones – the Vienna Stock Exchange is still a regional, a marginal stock exchange. It has not managed to position itself at the top of the central European area. She has not managed to form a platform for young, innovative companies – which go, like six Austrian companies, to Frankfurt or to America. We have not succeeded – and this would be a mark of a functioning capital market – that pension funds are investing more in Austria, as they do in other countries. There are two very easy-to-understand criteria, as we look forward to. The shareholder ratio, i.e. the public holding shares, is 6 percent for us. The international average is much higher, only Belgium is even worse at 5 percent, in Sweden, for example, this ratio is 35 percent, in America at 43 percent, and almost every other company owns shares there. Stock market capitalisation in percent is even more dramatic. In Austria, we have an exchange capitalization of 16.3 percent in GDP, Denmark is second worst with 65.9 percent – on the European average, this figure is 109 percent in GDP. That means that we have a very dramatic need to catch up in this respect! It is therefore only to be welcomed and to support and, of course, to be justified if the government is now launching a capital market offensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is particularly gratifying that, unlike previous coalitions, it is not hidden or shamed, but is well-founded, open, uncomplicated, that you stand and approach this capital market offensive. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: How about Deutsche Telekom, yes!]] I would like to highlight a few positive measures which have already been implemented in part by regulation. For example, the exchange rate tax, a European unique, has been abolished, so that we now have some degree of competition. The government has respected the recognition of the Constitutional Court concerning Spest. We have equality with regard to shares in relation to the Savings Book, Mrs Hagenhofer, equality, there is no advantage over the Savings Book, which leads to inheritance taxation on shares. And there is now an increase in the amount of redundancies in employee participation from 10 000 S to 20 000 S. Ladies and gentlemen from the Social Democratic side! Have you not followed the fact that the relationship between entrepreneurs and workers has changed in principle, that it is not about dependencies, but about incentives? [[Abg. Edlinger: He won't even get red with it!]] And this new system, this offensive enables these incentives. These incentives are to be welcomed because they simply open up more room for movement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Secondly, I would like to tell you that, of course, we also see some disadvantages. One of these disadvantages is the tax on funds, which we can only accept in some way, because it is also necessary to understand in times when there is a need to save, that there is no income-neutral, income-neutral approach. [[Abg. Edlinger: Capital taxes are not at all...!]] It is not least difficult to implement this fund taxation and is somewhat problematic. With this offensive, we do not want to force foreign countries, but domestics. We see the reduction of the tax threshold from 10 per cent to 1 per cent in the case of sale of shares as a restrictive measure, it will rather not lead to a recovery in the capital market. We see in terms of the conditions for the Stock Options, Minister of Finance, bureaucratic problems in the implementation in the individual case, this reminds us of the equity interest rate some years ago. We also see in the template a certain contradiction: As positive as the exclusion of stock options from the labour and social law remuneration concept is, there are also measures to make pension funds subject to sickness insurance, for example. That's a contradiction! Either this is forced, then you should do it all the time, or not. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: And why didn't you do it?]] We also see the need to take further measures in the future to force the capital market. Further measures will be: the speedy privatisation, the redundancies, but also the inclusion of pension funds – so that they can invest, for example, in the unlisted venture area. Overall – and I am in the end – we believe that this capital market offensive is a real step on the right path, which obviously needs to be continued ambitiously. As a very small contribution to the continuation, I make the following request – but it is only about correcting a editorial accident –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9040	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore also part of the negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9064	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My previous speaker said that it was no more surprising if he gave a different opinion on this presentation than his predecessor. Perhaps after the previous sluggishness of the Minister of Finance, which I will come back to at the end of the day, it is surprising if I try to approach it a little more differentiated. In fact: Capital market offensive law sounds good, but not everywhere you add the word "offensive", something good has to be done in the front, even in the case of legal instruments. If we go through the various measures of this proposal, then – from our point of view, negatives – the extent and time of favoring the Stock Options are included. The time seems to be at least unfortunately chosen, and to a certain extent, although we do not otherwise, we would like to be inclined to agree with the opinion of the Chamber of Labour, which is one of the dimensions after excessive tax relief. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Whether the load packages adopted more or less at the same time is so refined is also a question of political smartness and tactics. But anyway, Stock Options are at least an ambivalent thing from our point of view. On the one hand, we will not be able to build a fence around Austria, and if we want internationally represented companies in Austria, we will have to install corresponding components in the manager remuneration. That's right! On the other hand, whether you have to address this problem with such an accelerated promotion of this income component – and ultimately it is that – is doubtful. Otherwise, we see the employee participation in itself. In principle, we can already discuss this and take appropriate measures. The only question is whether sufficient incentives are being created so that lower levels of income can benefit from these opportunities. If it only leads to the ability of middle- and higher-income people to acquire favoured shares and to benefit from them in the future also income, that is, not just labour income, then, of course, this only means, in the long term, quite another opening of income shears, now favored by the tax legislation. So it would have to be successful to ensure that, in addition, medium and low incomes can participate in a certain way, otherwise what I have just outlined will happen in the long term, and that would not be a part of it. In principle, however, we can certainly talk about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As far as speculation taxes are concerned, of course, we have a different opinion. The abolition of the system, which has so far been forced, is, in our opinion, more a disadvantage. The set-aside for the funds you are now carrying out is not really in your mind either, for example, as regards the fund separators. In this way, to standardize all at the same time leads to no longer being differentiated, and ultimately the third pillar you are promoting, for example when saving pensions, is also discredited. On the one hand, they want to divert the small savers from the savings book to such possibilities, but at the same time catch the funds on a flat-rate basis. I think that in a way that is contradictory. One would have to do differently – and the speculation income tax would have been better guaranteed in our sense. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who? A clear proposal! How do you want it regulated?]] [[Abg. May. Firlinger: I'm horrified!]] Mr Firlinger! They're coming right away, and your horror won't really kill us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One final criticism on social security receipts. That's where it's gonna trick again. If more and more components of wages are paid out in this way and this is defined at the same time that this means a withdrawal of income for social security funds – which, of course, makes a certain sense of the nature of payments when looking at the stock options – but is not at the same time taken into account that social security funds still come to their dispensation, then we know exactly where the hole is opened. An overall view of things would be very useful in this context – and in this context I have criticized the concept of capital market offensive, because the offensive is directed only in a certain direction and in my opinion a few things, knowingly or ignorantly, are overlooked. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll end up and get together: Mr Finanzminister! We probably agree on the Vienna Stock Exchange, on the capitalization of Austrian companies and on the question of employee participation, in the analysis. These are topics that can and should be addressed, in particular the first two: The Vienna Stock Exchange Site, no doubt, is to be found in the European final light category, according to all the criteria that are reasonably applied in Europe. The capital requirements of the companies in Austria are despite – this is interesting, by the way: despite! – the tax advantages already created by the red and black package of the nineties for companies, in fact, still not particularly affordable! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What tax benefits?]] This is certainly a subject that needs to be discussed, especially for innovative companies, because this naturally has to do with corporate growth and opportunities. But with this template, I think you will not be able to contribute too much in this direction. In conclusion: If the employee participation model went in a direction that one can assume that there is also a benefit for smaller incomes, then we could quite agree to this. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: You did not read the template!]] – Incidentally, I must say that this offensive, which you have estimated to be cost-neutral, results in a plus of 1 billion schilling according to our calculations, but in favour of the federal budget! This is not a problem for us, we do not want to criticize it at this point. How far this will be cost-neutral or not is a question of how serious the precalculations have been made. And there is a statement from the Court of Auditors on this so-called offensive, which shows that the calculations are not comprehensible here. – You have hardly given your opinion in the Committee, perhaps you can repeat it. And in the end, Mr. Finanzminister, I have yours. Wegness from the past did not fully understand: Mrs Moser pointed out that the Kyoto target, with the measures provided for in the financial compensation now, cannot be achieved effectively, but rather that the opposite can be feared in individual tranches, and that has not been disproved. With regard to this reform dialogue: I didn't talk about abuse. I said: It was, as he was called out and discharged, a sham dialogue, not to mention that at the end of the day those, like just the ÖGB, are being discredited who want to exercise their right of demonstration on the road because they feel overwhelmed. – That was the critical point. Mr Finanzminister! You cannot explain to me that we would have been particularly involved in the financial compensation – there has not even been the effort to contact us. I have just said that I hope in the debate on the state tasks and the reform of the allocation of tasks to the local authorities – which I hope will be a longer and bigger one – for a longer and real exchange. And I still have that hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9174	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9195	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! A reform aimed at improving the conditions for the Austrian capital market is, I would say, more necessary today than ever. There is an absolute need for action, ladies and gentlemen, as nothing has happened over the past 13 years. And the few that happened under the last Minister of Finance, Rudolf Edlinger, have only been done because of the fact that most of them have been EU legislation. Nothing has happened voluntarily in this sector at all, one has to say very soberly and clearly. That is why, as usual on such issues, the responsible person who created this abuse is not sitting in the plenary room, but he has fled – I would like to say this once, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the liberals: At the coffee shop!]] In view of today's statements by the previous speakers of the Green and the Socialist Group, it must be said that they have not familiarized themselves with the matter. [[Call the SPÖ:But you!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] - Yes, yes! Yes, Mr President. I guess I've made myself very clever about this matter, so I can calm you down. [[Call:Many can't be that]] It's like this: If Mrs. Hagenhofer mentions that employee participation should be tax-privileged through the foundation, then that is not true! Any employee's participation up to 20 000 S is now tax-free. – Please read the template! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If Mrs Hagenhofer mentions that there are only opportunities for a very small group of people to acquire Stock Options, then, ladies and gentlemen, that is not true. It is simply unacceptable that this applies only to listed companies... – You said that in the Committee, please! - No, we'd like to hold on to that. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: No! I did not say that, Mr President.]] This may apply to any company, but it is of course easier for listed companies to determine where the value of the company lies. But you have to know a little bit, Mrs Hagenhofer, and you don't. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And that's why I think it's reasonable to get out of here, to study the template only superficially, to read headlines, and then to play the big expert. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I don't know!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is really little! [[New congratulations to the liberals and to representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, with this government proposal, we are going in the right direction in the right direction. It's very late, but it's not our fault – it's coming in the last minute. It will be difficult enough to invigorate the Austrian capital market after nothing has happened for so long, but what we can do – the few that this federal government can do – is done with acribie, and we are also standing here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Again: If you were really smart, Mrs. Colleague, you would also have read the statements and the examples of the government template on page 33. They put in the room: 500 000 S – and these things are tax-privileged. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's the frame! I understand that from a social point of view, you are not in favour of it – I understand that you have an ideological barrier, an ideological barrier – but please read exactly what is in it: at 500 000 S tax advantage – that is the field that has been drawn. That's the maximum! But that does not mean that you can make 500 000 of the Fiscus! Please read carefully and do not frustrate the untruth from the speaker’s mouth! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like, unfortunately, to address one point only, as time is progressing. I am very glad that this law also creates some new provisions on the regulation of capital markets. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is about introducing a third market segment in Vienna, similar to in all other markets. The Vienna Stock Exchange promises much of it, we will see if all these expectations meet – in view of the fact that nothing has happened for so long. I hope that all of this will happen, I hope that the Federal Securities Supervisory Board can now really, as it wishes, act against insider suspicion and all these things, because it is necessary to strengthen confidence in the capital market so that one day we can say quiet conscience: A good day begins with a functioning capital market!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9329	Mrs Hagenhofer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9353	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Firlinger said that in my contribution to the debate, I would have said that Stock Options will only be possible for a small group of individuals in stock companies as salary components. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] The fact is, I said: Stock options are salary components for managers who especially favour only a few in terms of tax burden or tax relief. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't talk into a whirlwind!]] The fact is that more workers than managers work in Austria. Don't twist facts, and don't make me say I haven't met here and now!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9392	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 at 3 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Dr. Peter Pilzund Comrades to the Federal Minister for Justice concerning Dr. Böhmdorfer, the chief coward and the rule of law (1664/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9425	We arrive at urgent procedure for the written request number 1664/J. It has now been distributed to all the delegates, so that a reading by a writer is not necessary. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9696	The first questioner is Dr. Gusenbauer. ==References====External links== 5 of the Rules of Procedure a speaking time of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9717	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let us briefly recapitulate what we have to deal with today. It is not long since the old partyman of the FPÖ has repeatedly protested that he can obtain all the data, including secret data. He said this on several occasions from the speaker's desk of the Austrian National Council. He was concerned about these data in order to create political capital, and all the assumptions could not be proved until then, unfortunately, because there was no outing of one of the deputies in this context. Since Mr. Kleindienst's publications, however, we know how the FPÖ and their old partyman have been concerned about this secret information: They have tried to establish a network of peaks within the Austrian executive to get secret information, not to reveal scandals, but to make political opponents and competitors mouth dead in the public. And that's the real scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Recently we also know how these operations were clearly financed, because Mr. Kleindienst pointed out that he had received his Judas-Lohn from the hands of Mr. Kabas and was paid directly for his peak services. In the meantime, it has also become known that a party donation of 5 million schillings has obviously been handed over to the FPÖ by an Austrian large-scale industrialists who are now no longer among us. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 5 million schilling!]] Your objection is quite correct: 5 million schilling! So far, everything has been in the dark, and these 5 million do not find themselves in the declaration of donations of the Freedom Party. – The question arises whether these 5 million schillings have not been used to pay directly to Spittel, who worked in the executive for the FPÖ. That means: We also know the financial source with which the FPÖs have been financed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, today's Minister of Justice has obviously played a central role, because, as individual witnesses have said, these 5 million schillings are to have been transferred to his office and deposited there! And it has not yet been understood how these 5 million schillings have been further distributed by today's Minister of Justice and former FPÖ administration! But it obviously closes the circle: Haider was the one who used the information in the public, the Spittel under the guidance of Mr. Kabas, Kreissl and others have provided the information, and on the table of today's Minister of Justice the 5 million schilling were ultimately used to pay this peak. So closes the circle regarding the tipping scandal of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is interesting in this regard how the FPÖ has been dealing with this question since the beginning of this peak scandal. I remind you: When the first revelations took place, the FPÖ initially – as always – disputed everything: We do not know Mr Kleindienst that there has never been any information that was illegally concerned that no one had met with Mr Kleindienst, that there had been no payment. – Phase one of FPÖ behavior is therefore – as always – in dispute. When this was no longer disputed, because preliminary surveys had already been carried out by the public prosecutor's office and because there were new reports in the Austrian newspapers every day, FPÖ has passed to the second stage of its dealings with this scandal by making the parliamentary opposition responsible for what it itself has broken, and has said: All of this is unjustly blackmailed by the Social Democrats and others who have staged something like that themselves! Then the FPÖ went a step further. You said: The journalists who publish and research this have all "sick brains" because all this has nothing to do with reality! Following the first results of its investigations, the Public Prosecutor's Office then passed the FPÖ to the next stage, namely to carry out a het campaign against the investigators and to weaken them, all of the researchers of the Ministry of the Interior were attacked up to the Director-General for Public Security. You of the FPÖ have begun to engage in a dispute in the coalition by asking the ÖVP to finally bring the Interior Minister Strasser to Raeson, and by asking the Minister of the Interior to call his officials to order! So you started this aggression set against the investigators and commanders of the Ministry of the Interior with the Minister of the Interior at the top and these with "friendly" names such as "red brothers" or "left blacks who do the business of the Reds". Next stage of the debate: After the suspicion has become ever closer, one has then gone directly to the judicial system and has outlawed investigators and prosecutors in the public and demanded that they be deducted from this procedure. Furthermore, it was demanded that the procedure against Jörg Haider itself be terminated, that all possible threats be voiced in the public, that the prosecutors be accused – as your old partyman did – of deliberately bending and breaking the right, and finally the whole independent justice was challenged. What FPÖ is doing in this matter is very significant for them: It measures with a measure, it sets the perpetrators equal with the investigating officials and tries to give the public the impression that the investigating officials have committed crimes in the same size as those who are responsible for the pitfall scandal in the FPÖ. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! This is a totalitarian process! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this context, there are always very interesting foglights, which should somehow give the impression that FPÖ is already interested in information. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of the Eiertanz that has been listed in Parliament in recent months! Whenever no meetings are held in Parliament, some high-ranking FPÖ representatives say that everything has to be clarified and that an investigation committee is urgently needed. Mr. Alt-Parteiobann Haider himself said that he called for an investigation committee, and Mr. Westenthaler said that an investigation committee for the FPÖ was becoming increasingly interesting. However, it is strange that the two coalition parties will always vote against regularly if a meeting of the National Council calls for the establishment of an investigation committee! – The conclusion to be drawn from this approach to "research theater" is clear: The FPÖ has no interest in the fact that its pitfall scandal is being cleared up, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The round envelopes and escalation levels in this context are getting stronger! And if the FPÖ Summit disproves and discredits all the acting prosecutors and judges in the public with expressions that would be quite susceptible, then it tries to find in this way prosecutors and judges who are actually bringing an action against Jörg Haider, then the FPÖ Summit could again say that the prosecutors and investigators concerned are caught and should be removed from these proceedings on the grounds of their partiality. Thus, the radicality of the language against prosecutors and against investigators has essentially a meaning: The aim is to ensure that a claim for deduction of the persons acting can be made out of the procedure. Not for nothing has Günter Traxler in the "standard" called this kind of aggression "language terrorism", my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now, of course, there are different interpretations of how the authorities react to this pressure: The President of the Court of Justice has rightly opposed this attempt to restrict the independence of justice to the public. The public prosecutors have rightly opposed these interventions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] And, of course, the judicial bodies point out that they will not be affected by this pressure. In this context, there are a number of comments that should lead to contemplation, because they describe the quality of the discussion we have arrived at. – For example, Barbara Coudenhove writes in a comment in the "Press": "It is generally only from non-democratic regimes that one needs to take action correctly in order to carry out his work. Not that in today's Austria you have to fear for life and job when you hold on to the professional ethos – but career benefits can already be achieved if you behave a little opposite to winking from outside the right." Ladies and gentlemen! That's a fundamental question! If civil appeal is already required, only if the criminal law can be applied, then undoubtedly the question arises: How far has our rule of law come after these attacks by the Freedom Party? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are talking about our democratic community and the independence of justice is considered an integral part of the democratic rule of law, then the question arises: How would policy react if justice interfered with the same words and accusations in politics as the FPÖ is now trying to do with its pressure on justice? Imagine, Mr Westenthaler, what would happen in your group in the event that a judge would say: Mr Westenthaler doesn't have them all! Or imagine what kind of debates would be initiated if some prosecutor demanded that Mr. Haider should finally withdraw Mrs. Riess-Passer from the government, or what displeasure would arise if individual law enforcement officers in the public demanded that the Minister of Justice be finally brought to the Council! Imagine that independent justice would behave as much in terms of policy as FPÖ is currently doing in relation to justice! An unheard-of cry would pass through our country, and these accusations would rightly be rejected. But the FPÖ is completely self-evident in its desire to cut down justice in its independence, thereby weakening the rule of law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In view of this situation, of course, the question arises: Why is the Minister of Justice silent in a situation in which the prosecutors and judges are exposed to the worst attacks every day, primarily by Mr Westenthal, but in which he is also considered with the calls of Mrs Vice-Chancellor? It is certainly a difference whether Mr Westenthaler, who is used to nothing else, makes such statements, or whether the Vice-Chancellor, as a member of the Federal Government, calls on the Minister of Justice to terminate proceedings! Such calls are no longer external calls, but they are obviously an issue of the government discussion, which should be interrupted by law and law on political grounds! The question therefore arises why the Minister of Justice is silent when the judges and prosecutors are massively attacked in the public and he himself is asked to terminate proceedings and withdraw these people. In view of this, why is there only a notary silence? In comparison, the Minister of the Interior has stood behind his investigating officials, for he is in charge of the investigation. On the other hand, you, Mr Justice Minister, have not done this to this day, and this gives the impression that the Minister of Justice does not assume his responsibility for the officials of justice, I very much respect Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The question arises whether Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer acts as Minister of Justice or still as the personal friend of the FPÖ's old party and as a lawyer of the FPÖ. So far, there is only silence in the defence of officials. On the other hand, his statements on the question of whether or not a debt was present were discussed by Jörg Haider. Even before the results were obtained in the first investigations, he was quickly in the hands of the statement that Jörg Haider was superior to every suspicion for him. So when it comes to the protection of his former client, he is very talking, but when it comes to the protection of judicial officials, he is silent, and that is not all right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] An important Austrian constitutional expert, Heinz Mayer, has rightly directed you – I fully agree with this sentence: "Whoever misunderstands the interests of a party as a general interest has disqualified himself for state functions." This is true of you, Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But there may also be other reasons for Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer is silent! Perhaps the reason is that there are also surveys against him in a number of Causen, for example because he himself used illegally acquired material, or because he has not explained to this day how the 5 million schillings have been passed on as unexplained party donations. Perhaps Mr Böhmdorfer's silence can also be explained by the fact that he may be part of the FPÖ's top coward and the peak scandal! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are enough reasons to say that Mr Böhmdorfer is caught and in this situation is not a good Minister of Justice, which guarantees an Enlightenment! [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and on the Greens.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Yes, yes!]] I don't want to make any historical comparisons. Nevertheless, I believe that one should look at how the rule of law is being trampled on and the government partner, namely the ÖVP, is silent! No one, none of the wingmen who are otherwise very disputed, to the very evocative Mr Khol, has spoken out on this question. The Federal Chancellor, who bears the overall responsibility, continues to keep silent and narrowly silent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't get it done!]] If there are such attacks on the rule of law, the question arises: Isn't anyone who's silent about this, sorry, ladies and gentlemen? Are not the Federal Chancellor and the ÖVP also taking part in this matter? Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'm already at the last sentence! Jörg Haider meant: You explained the war to us! – If the application of criminal law is described as a declaration of war, then the rule of law is declared war, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9882	The Minister for Justice is now given the floor to answer the urgent question. Ladies and gentlemen! But before that I have to make the following statement: I know that this is a very sensitive and delicate debate, and I cannot say anything about the density of the suspicions. But it is not up to you – whoever – to commit crimes in this causa, because it is the justice that has to be decided. I would like to ask you to take this into account, because such findings are not acceptable! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) Remember that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, yes! You need it!]] Minister! You have the floor now.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e9933	Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking you for these words. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to comment on the question as follows: To the extent that the statement of grounds of inquiry states that it is of great importance for every democratic community that the institutions of the democratic system have a fundamental consensus of values and conduct themselves accordingly in their political activities, as well as that the commitment to the rule of law, to the independence of the courts, to freedom of demonstration, to freedom of expression and to the diversity of opinion, and that, in all the differences of political views, it is necessary to maintain and develop this consensus, I can fully endorse the introductory remarks of the request. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have always made a commitment to an independent rule of law and to an independent rule of law as a supporting pillar of our democratic rule of law, from my office just a few days ago, and I have always acted in my office in accordance with these fundamental principles. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, ensuring the undivided work of the judiciary can not only be the task of the Minister of Justice, but must also be a common concern – and above all – of the political forces in our country. Justice itself and its institutions must also feel committed to this principle. In this sense, I must call on everyone to vote their actions on this basic consensus! It is not enough to give in the grounds of urgent questions lip confessions which are disregarded in their own political action! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I also include in my appeal the media of our country, which also have a profound responsibility for protecting the protection of individuals, the suspicion of innocence and the safeguarding of a climate in which the judicial bodies can work in a manner that is relevant and unimpeded! I have taken the opportunity of developing the past few weeks to introduce concrete measures in the Ministry of Justice to improve the protection of secrets in court cases, namely: Technical arrangements will make copies made in the field of justice recognizable as such in the future. Documentary inspection and the production of paperwork will be documented in a precise way in the act. The special handling of the files will make it easier to prevent illegal information from coming outside in the individual case. Unparticipated third parties, whose personal rights are violated by a breach of secrets, will in future receive a flat-rated compensation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That wasn't necessary so far!]] There have never been any such guarantees in Austria. These are not only concrete measures to improve the protection of individuals, but also measures to ensure independent and unimpeded work of the judiciary. I give the following explanation on the questions myself: Questions 1, 2, 4 and 6: The public discussion has prompted me to have a discussion with the President of the Association of Austrian Judges and with the President of the Association of Austrian Prosecutors tomorrow. This conversation would have taken place if my interlocutor had already had time. My aim for this meeting is to make a joint statement. As early as the beginning of December, I made it absolutely clear in a press release that I am relying on the independence of justice and are not currently discussing instructions. I also stressed that I would give the investigative authorities every support. Question 3 is my answer: no. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Answer the questions!]] Question 5: During a pending procedure, I would like to include every statement on the procedure of a prosecutor. Question 7: Because of the great public interest, everything will have to be done to ensure that the procedure is handled as quickly as possible. The Federal Ministry of Justice is endeavouring to ensure the best possible conditions for this. [[Call to the SPÖ: Is there a guidance in this regard?]] Questions 8 and 9: I am opposed to these demands and I agree with the President of the National Council Dr Heinz Fischer. Questions 10 to 21 do not concern the area of enforcement of the Federal Minister for Justice and are therefore not subject to parliamentary law. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on these issues in order to prevent precepts and legends: My client, Mag. Ewald Stadler, has handed me pictures of the photographs I have been discussing, which I have submitted to the court on the basis of my legal duties. I have considered these documents to be legitimate evidence and I am still of this opinion. It is legally incorrect that a lawyer has to verify the authenticity of the evidence given to him by the client. – By the way, I reject the amendments contained in this question. On the question 22: I have explained in the same breath that this does not mean that in any way I will intervene in the investigations, influence them or otherwise refer to them in any way. On the question 23: No one can sit down against pre-examinations. They are the result of ads against which the person concerned is always powerless. Question 24: Dr. Haider has not received any information from me in connection with the procedure in question. [[Abg. Oils: That was not the question!]] – Very well, the answer goes even further than the question. Question 25: No. On questions 26 and 27: I did not make the request on the ground. On the question 28: Several individual reports have been submitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice during the procedure. On question 29: Service discussions within the meaning of the Public Prosecutor's Act have not yet taken place on this procedure. There was only one contact talk with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, as prosecutor Dr. Fasching should be used. Questions 30 and 31: The posting of prosecutor Dr. Fasching was discussed in the district of the Federal Government members. By means of targeted support from the Special Commission, prosecutor Dr. Fasching is expected to speed up complex investigations. The answer to questions 32 and 33 is no. On questions 34 to 38: These issues also do not concern the area of enforcement of the Federal Minister for Justice. The amendments contained in these questions are also incorrect. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not an answer!]] Question 39: I not only claim not to lead my ex-law firm anymore, but this corresponds to the facts. The letterhead used by my former firm corresponds to the contract with my former partner, which was concluded long before my ministry. It conforms to the law, and it complies with a proposal from the Bar Association for Vienna. On question 40: Two ads have been submitted. Question 41 is the answer: yes. On question 42: The act will be submitted to the Federal Ministry of Justice, I will not let him present. On question 43: The procedure referred to has not been delivered or discontinued. Answer to question 44: no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10125	We are now entering the debate. Each group has a speaking time of 25 minutes. No speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Pilz. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10152	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Federal Minister for Justice for answering Question No 41 correctly. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] It wasn't clear from the outset. At least one question has been answered in a comprehensive, serious and objective manner. To keep this in the Minutes, I repeat the question and the answer. The question is: "Are the investigations made in relation to your person led by the prosecutor responsible for the chief coward in the StA Vienna?" – The answer "Yes" is clear and correct, it has nothing to do with it. All the other questions, ladies and gentlemen, have either not been answered at all, only in part, misleading, false or even false. Since I am not entitled to answer the unanswered questions or to add answers instead of the Minister of State, I am content to repeat a single question and to state the answer. Question No 26 reads as follows: "Why did you (according to "Standard") ask the Federal Minister for the Interior to report to the prosecutor about any investigation against Jörg Haider?" And the question 27 is linked to this: "With what reason did the Minister of the Interior reject this?" They have disputed this intervention. The Federal Minister for the Interior has personally confirmed this intervention to the author of this article in the "Standard". The word of the Minister of Justice is against the word of the Minister of the Interior. And I don't have the slightest problem in this particular causa to decide who to believe here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A urgent request, which two opposition parties jointly address to a Federal Minister, is an exception instrument of parliamentary debate. We have decided together on this step because something has happened, which is at least as unusual in a democratic rule of law, namely the refusal of any answer, not only from the person concerned, but from the whole of the Federal Government and from two parliamentary parties to a number of pressing questions about the administration of the Minister of Justice, which has long been in the process of clarifying. And if you are not willing to answer these questions, it is not just our right, but even our duty to use all the parliamentary instruments to do so. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Is Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer any Minister of Justice? And does Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer ever have the chance to become a "normal" minister of justice? – You have to know two things, and neither of us, except some liberal officials, could know before your order. None of us knew that law firm Dr. Böhmdorfer was the headquarters for the judicial exploitation of the information of the liberal tipping ring. This was not known in the appointment of Dr. Böhmdorfer as Minister of Justice. In the meantime, we know not only about legal acts, not only the statements of lawyers, not only about the publicly available information about Bohemian proceedings, which we have, but also about statements made by former employees of his firm. They have described a system and are ready to describe in court and in front of a parliamentary investigation committee the same system, a system in which, through the abuse and repugnance of political opponents, top freedom officials around Dr. Haider have repeatedly come into court trouble and the lawyer has always asked them a question: What material can you buy so we can win in court? – And then it was created. And then the trustees in the ring were put in motion. The collection centre for this information was the law firm Dr. Böhmdorfer, and most of these procedures were personally managed by Dr. Böhmdorfer. This is the first accusation: Dr. Böhmdorfer was the head of a firm that was the collecting center for the material of the liberal tipping ring. Secondly, The suspicion that the law firm Dr. Böhmdorfer was a, if not the Black Money central of the Freedom Party, has been a double reason since today. The second witness has already said, and we know today that in addition to the "System Kohl" in the Federal Republic of Germany there is probably a very similar system of Haider/Böhmdorfer in Austria. This is the subject of surveys and investigations by the financial management and the financial criminal authorities, and this should have been the subject of surveys in a parliamentary investigation committee for a long time. If you perhaps sum up a little salopp and inaccurate, you can put this to a point: Jörg Haider was the political tow father of Dr. Böhmdorfer, and Dr. Böhmdorfer is in every political function his successor to him. He is not a minister of justice to whom the designation of Minister of Justice comes, but a party lawyer who can rely blindly on his current and ex-customers in every situation. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: But this is a "youth" drawing son!]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, the allegation is justified: Sons of draw in the Freedom Party are rapidly ageing, but this is a special problem for your group. I'm coming back to the Federal Ministry of Justice. On the basis of allegations that have just become known, I believe to the law firm and to the person of lawyer Dr. Böhmdorfer that Dr. Böhmdorfer has no chance of ever becoming a "normal" minister of justice in this Republic, under quotation marks. According to his previous history, Dr. Böhmdorfer has no chance of ensuring minimal trust in the Austrian rule of law. And that's exactly what he says in his office. What has Dr. Böhmdorfer done so far? What did he do today? Did you hear from him today a word to defend the attacked prosecutors and judges? [[Abg. May. Posch: No!]] Did you hear a single word where he said: I won't let the judge call it "earth egg"! [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] I won't let the prosecutors call them a breach of law! [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] I won't let the Director-General for Public Security call it a "red brother"? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] Nothing! Not a word! The only thing the Minister of Justice has referred to was that he feels obliged to the rule of law and will have a conversation tomorrow. Minister of Justice! If you continue this way, in the Austrian rule of law, every conversation you have will be a political and free self-examination! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] You are not able and you are not prepared to protect the undercovered investigative authorities. You are not able and you are not willing to make information about the serious suspicions that burden your law firm and your function as lawyer. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's it!]] You are not willing to defend the Austrian rule of law against your own party friends with every necessary consequence. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's it!]] They are not willing to reject government members, government friends where they attack the rule of law. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's it!]] You are not prepared to find a single word open to Mrs Riess-Passer's intervention. [[Abg. May. Posch: That's it!]] You are not willing to assume your role as Minister of Justice of the Republic. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Posch: That's it!]] That is why we expect you to be ready to relinquish your role as Minister of Justice in the interests of the same rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10360	Mrs Fekter's next speech. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10408	Mr President, Mr Fischer! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to make it clear in advance: The EIA has full confidence in our rule of law, and both the security and judicial authorities will do everything they can to clarify these accusations and bring them to a legal end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We also highly respect the independence and impartiality of justice and condemn any party-political influence on judicial proceedings. We are in particular – and this is to be mentioned in this context – for freedom of expression, even if it is used for criticism. We are also – and this is a special concern to me in my speech here – for the freedom of attitude, and we reject any kind of family terrorism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would therefore like to make a very critical statement on the "platform of democracy and freedom of expression", which gave a press conference with Mr Jarolim on Monday. In this press conference, a procedure which I consider to be highly questionable has been presented in the rule of law. There an ordered language review was presented to enable a judge to submit a certain attitude. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why he can't talk today! It's an inconceivable scandal!]] This is, for me, brutal family terrorism, which is to be exercised by means of media pressure on an independent judge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This ordered language review of old judgments, which were already valid and were also confirmed by the upper authorities, makes a supposed attitude for a judge to put media pressure on him. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a question of criminal charges against the judge concerned, nor is it a matter of disciplinaryly questionable proceedings in connection with this judge, it is merely about the attitude of this judge. I think it is immense if such an intervention in justice is undertaken. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Where is the concern about independence, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ? Mr Jarolim – unfortunately he is not in the hall now – has missed this sensorium massively. I think this procedure is a huge derailment. At this press conference, Mr Jarolim has also, unisono, generally attached massive criticism of the judicial system, defaming the courts as careless and subjecting the case law to illegal practices. To read in this issue of SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Don't distract from Westenthal!]] That was Monday. On Monday, the judicial system was massively criticized, and today the SPÖ is creating itself here, motivating itself about the criticism of the liberals at this justice and saying that this would be an immense influence, and here it is a hypocrites of the judicial system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think that's a double practice. Your indignation, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly played and disbelief. It is a party-political outrage for me, because when one reads earlier statements by SPÖ representatives against justice, it shows that the SPÖ was never squeaky about justice and did not save with massive criticism of justice. Discard, for example In point 1 of today's allegations by Mrs Vice-Chancellor, as an immeasurable one, she wished that the investigations would be terminated. The vice chancellor has expressed a wish, for she cannot give any instructions in this context, you know. So this was an immeasurable thing with the vice chancellor. I have here a broadcast from then President of the National Council Gratz and Mr Klubobmann Dr. Fischer, today President, on the Sinowatz process. And these two gentlemen, the highest representatives of the SPÖ, say that it would be "important that this procedure, namely the Sinowatz procedure, be "sudden to a conclusion". [[Ah-Rufe at the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Look here! You can do it! Everything is possible with you, everything is allowed!]] That means what is happening on your side today was common to you at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is history falsification! That's your method!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The difference is, the Sinowatz is condemned!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This will happen early enough!]] They also propose to the Federal Minister Böhmdorfer that he should have protected Dr. Haider. He said at that time he would think Dr. Haider was superior to any suspicion. Such statements from the mouth of a Minister of Justice are unusual, but the Minister has made it clear today that he will not intervene in this procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He will also not be allowed to present the documents, and there will be no instructions. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He didn't say that!]] What I call unusual was very common at the SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (in the direction of the Federal Minister of Government, Dr. Böhmdorfer) You confess to the direction! You've never excluded them!]] Here I have a broadcast of Gratz and Fischer. – Mr Kostelka, be careful! – Here Dr. Fischer and Dr. Gratz – he was then Clubobmann of SPÖ – explain: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Kostelka is getting nervous!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because the urgent break up!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Which fisherman was that?]] "For us personally, national council president Gratz and SPÖ-Klubobmann Dr. Fischer, the credibility of the party president" Sinowatz "is certainly beyond doubt." [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Blind on the left eye!]] [[Abg. Oellinger: He wasn't Minister of Justice!]] ==References== In July 1987, Dr. Fischer declared something else. Quote: "At the Sinowatz–Worm process, Fischer said: 'I put my hand in the fire that Sinowatz did not make a false testimony when he declared that he did not say what was claimed by Matysek at the party board meeting of the SPÖ-Burgenland.'" [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I think he has been condemned!]] In view of this, your indignation, ladies and gentlemen, and your accusations against the Minister of Justice are very, very one-sided. Read the old statements! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You are afraid of our rule of law because there is criticism of independent justice, you say. Unfortunately, I cannot lose any real concern about our rule of law. Their attitude so far, especially with regard to sanctions, was not influenced by concern for Austria, but rather by concern for the loss of power. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Where is your concern for justice when Jarolim generally defames the courts as careless and accuses Austrian judges of illegal conduct? Where was your concern about independent justice earlier? Where did President Fischer then have his concerns about the rule of law, the fundamental principles of the rule of law, when he raised allegations against judges, prosecutors and the Minister of Justice, then Foregger? [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something about this request!]] [[Abg. May. Muttonen: We now have the year 2000!]] At that time – and this is the qualitative difference – it was not about investigations, then it was about court proceedings and judgments. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Intervention in court proceedings!]] Gusenbauer has taken the word "civilcourage" into his mouth and has quoted commentators who thought it might need civil court today. I can deny this: Today it is determined without the officials need civil appeal – but at that time they needed civil appeal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I quote a statement by Dr. Fischer, in which he criticised not only the then prosecutor Matousek, today President of the Public Prosecutor's Association, for his past course of action – Matousek had civil appeal at the time – but in which he also criticized the entire judiciary and, of course, the corresponding Minister of Justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs. Silhavy, listen! I quote: "... because the succession of manipulations that have been made to bring about this decision – starting with the allocation of the file to the FPÖ adviser Matousek on the delays in the procedure gg. the ‘Krongeugin’ Matysek, up to the targeted indiscretions against certain media – is unmistakable, emphasized Fischer. From a ‘sharpen look’ in individual decisions by the staff of the Ministry of Justice, a very poor look has become for the minister himself." I quote: "The handling of justice with Dr. Fred Sinowatz called fishermen "absolutely unfair". ... Fischer referred to the fact-finding of judges Maurer..." – Listen, hears: [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's incredible!]] Judge Maurer! It's the same thing that's being poured back. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This urgent question...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10760	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10781	This urgent question, ladies and gentlemen, is a single prejudgment and disregard of the ongoing investigations. We are waiting for the results, and then we will comment on them. – And until then, the presumption of innocence is valid!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10811	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10854	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, Mr Fischer, the request to Mr Fekter to speak the final sentence will be particularly easy for you this time. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer, who has been here and has tried to throw himself into the FPÖ and Minister Böhmdorfer in constant violation of the assumption of innocence, has actually not been a good service himself, because, as I believe, it is once again in the history of parliamentarism that the President of Parliament has made the founder of a urgent request, which is still a member of the own party, on a standard basis, that he is constantly...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10881	Mr President, I do not need any interpretation in the Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10896	I too do not need any interpretation by the Bureau, and I therefore ask that my sentence be spoken, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So I accept this criticism as my own words and say that Mr Gusenbauer has repeatedly and deliberately violated the presumption of innocence with his speech from A to Z. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now to the Greens: Mr Pilz has made himself a speaker's seat, and in his own way here he is trying to tax the Minister of Justice and the Freedom Party. It is quite right that the Social Democratic Members are responding to the fact that they have agreed to this speech with the seriousness when they have been involved in this cabaret-like presentation, as is the custom of a cabaret. But, Mr Pilz, I can write to you one in your green book: When the Greens speak to the rule of law, it is that way – and that is what I mean now only as a metaphor and not in the literal sense – as if a pyroman expressed on the subject of fire protection. Please let that be said! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] If you are now aging these words, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I may refer you to Mr Günter Ofner. This was a greener of the first hour, who knew you very well and who wrote a very interesting article in yesterday's guest comment in the press; he called it: "The Greens are discovering violence again." In it, he points out a number of facts in which green mandates, who are also sitting inside here, have repeatedly made themselves a guiding hand of demonstrations, which ultimately...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10950	Please, the word "Leithammeln" to Members of the House... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go, please!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] No, in comparison with animals the right side has been particularly sensitive!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e10996	So it's not a control hammer, it's a leader. If there is such a great sensitivity, I have no problem at all. So: Green mandates have become key figures of those demonstrations that have repeatedly turned into violence. For example, Mr. Günter Ofner wrote that before the event of the Vienna FPÖ on 20 October. October 2000 Green sympathizers and demonstrators have tried to forcefully prevent this event. There people were beaten down – and that's not fun. Yes, even in the entrance area, a corridor of violence was built, from which individuals who were then deliberately beaten and injured. Similar events occurred at the end of September 2000, writes the Green Günter Ofner, at a demonstration in Prague, which has also distinguished. Mrs. Lunacek took part in this. So what's left of the greens? Ofner comes to the conclusion – and you can only join this –: "A little remains of ecology. The socially changing policy of Marxist embossing dominates. ... The violently autonomous left-wing scene is now openly supported." – These are the statements of a green person who needs to know the greens from the inside. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. It's cabaret!]] I referred briefly to the Greens' relationship with justice in my last speech, and I can repeat it. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you have anything to say about the urgent request?]] The prosecutors have rightly held back that Ms Petrovic is standing in front of the court building and is calling for solidarity with the defendant on a day when the Black Ofoedu, accused of drug trafficking, is in court and is then legally sentenced for money laundering. Ms Petrovic spoke with the transparency: "Solidarity with Charles Ofoedu" was set up in front of the court building and the indictment was literally referred to as "Case Paper", the indictment of that Ofoedu, who was legally sentenced for money laundering of drug money. [[the speaker holds an image in height]] – A "fine" society, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The historical quotations from the years 1989, 1990 and 1991 have already been partially brought. I can only remind you that the SPÖ traditionally has a relationship with the rule of law – let us say it carefully – which is distanced from the rule of law. She – or, more precisely, the ÖGB – was not even afraid in the 1960s to include even a newspaper with the help of instructions from Broda: It was the so-called "Kronen-Zeitungs-Putsch" – I can only remind you briefly. Jarolim's case has already been revealed; I'm surprised he's not present. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's hidden!]] I hope that he is prepared for a speech or, better yet, for an accusation, because it is unique that this is to be filtered out by a non-special opinion regarding a judgment spoken 14 or 16 years ago that a judge is not ideologically reliable! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They have already hidden it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an incredible scandal!]] [[Call to the liberals: Unbelievable!]] You have to imagine that, ladies and gentlemen! This is an incredible attack on the independence of our courts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of the procedure has been properly practised. I should like to remind you that the extradition request of the judge on the land day was enriched with files that should not have been included. Personal rights were violated. A house search at Miksha was carried out within 21 minutes. In the affair around the "Noricum" and current weapons factory Liezen, on the other hand, it took three years for an application for house search to be completed. As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, I can also say that Mr Mucha, a well-known publisher in Vienna, has just recently said: Some journalists in Austria have a stand for the ECIS. – There is nothing to add to this, except the finding that 30 000 officials of the Ministry of the Interior are genuinely uncomplained in their service. But it is about the top of this Ministry of the Interior, and it is about the political responsibility of these tips. In the last ten weeks, these tips have tried nothing but to darken, cover up, date and start a distraction maneuver. This is the real scandal, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! And if you perhaps encounter this expression, I should like to point out that this is a literal quote by Mr Klubobmann Alexander Van der Bellen from 1999 dealt with the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11182	Mr Karl Ollinger spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The speaking time and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are known. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11210	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krüger, in his speech, said that at the party event of the FPÖ, people of high profile had been defeated and that a corridor of violence had been established. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] I'm actually correcting: Defeated – and this is apparent from the police protocol – were young people by so-called Glatzkopfen or "Skins". [[Abg. Haller: Have you seen it?]] [[Abg. Achatz: How did you get the record? How'd you get the police protocol?]] [[Abg. Haller: How do you know?]] That is, ladies and gentlemen: Not every glamour is high, and above all it can be that it's not victim, it's a culprit.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11285	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11334	Mr President. Minister of Justice! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where did you hide Jarolim?]] Mr Justice Minister – and I am serious about this – I thank you for not answering this question. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The extrapartial Kostelka!]] They have been put before the alternative, either by providing a detailed answer to this question or also by the exact opposite, by not answering it, clarity. You have created the clarity by the second! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: That's exactly what the court will decide!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's wrong with him?]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, only the introductory remarks made by the Minister of Justice were noteworthy. He has admitted that justice has come into the debate, but: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: By whom?]] All are to blame, but not him – opposition, media, personnel representation! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Jarolim!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! You have had your chance, but you have consistently not used it: neither today nor in the 290 days of your previous post! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Fastgg]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] With your previous office, you have confirmed the worst fears expressed on the occasion of your order. Minister of Justice! You would then have been silent if you had had to talk, if you had to stand above Austrian justice in particular, and you would have talked if an Austrian Minister of Justice had been well advised to remain silent. Minister of Justice! You have not only broken your office in this context, but You've got what you've got on the 2nd. March 2000 promised this House that with zeal, fidelity and conscientiousness you would not respect the interests of the Austrian judicial system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In doing so, Mr. Justice Minister, your own party would have given you the opportunity to prove your independent office: You would only have had to be protected from your prosecutors, following the duties of a Minister of Justice! – You did not, quite the contrary: You've been silent! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Protective from SPÖ! You have to protect them! You have to protect them from fellow Members Jarolim!]] When Mr Alt-Parteiobmann expressed himself in an unacceptable manner several times, you even made a loud statement that he was above all doubts, and with this you acquitted Mr. Dr. Jörg Haider as Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice has acted in this regard, as Dr. Böhmdorfer as a party lawyer would have wished. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's not a judge!]] But you have been silent, Minister of Justice, when it would be good for you to stand in front of the prosecutors and judges: They have then been silent when the Deputy Chancellor of this Republic, as the club chairman of the Liberal Group, as state government members and heads of state, accused the law-abiding prosecutors and the judges of grossest violation of law, oblivion, indifference, and indignantly insulted them! Dr. Böhmdorfer! If a Minister of Justice of the Republic silences such attacks, he agrees with them. I would like to put that before you, Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Apologize to the Minister of Justice for your attacks!]] Finally, that was your intention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should apologize to the Minister of Justice!]] You stayed as Minister of Justice, what you were before: the lawyer of the Freedom Party and Dr. Jörg Haiders. Federal Minister! Through your silence, you have encouraged your own party, even asked to continue the constant criticism, the media pressure, the verbal jury and the insults against justice and its representatives. They have thus signaled to the prosecutors and the investigators two things: First: Whatever these attacks may be, this Minister of Justice is certainly not protecting his officials! You didn't do it today either. – Second: You have only one interest, Mr Justice Minister, not in the outcome of the investigations, but only in the termination of the surveys and in the withdrawal of the proceedings. – This is not worthy of a Minister of Justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I cannot spare you the further accusation, Minister of Justice: You are not acting as a chief of the Austrian judicial authority, but as a lawyer of your party and of your patron, Dr. Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The sponge is already sitting in your place!]] In this context, as a party lawyer, you – and you have to remember – have developed a flood of complaints against critics who have not least been criticized by one of the leading lawyers in Europe, Dr. Frowin. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The little brother-in-law is already sitting in your place, Mr. Kostelka! I'd look at that!]] As a party attorney, they have covered critics with complaints until some of them are silent. They are the manufacturer of the legal clause against freedom of expression, and put this frivolous game with the rule of law [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can you say that again? We didn't understand that now! What is he?]] You're going on now! Inactionlessly, you will see when provocative honors, damage to reputations, verbal jury of representatives of your party are used against prosecutors and against judge. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's one embarrassing thing you're doing!]] In this context, Federal Minister for Justice: What you and your friends obviously want is that prosecutors and investigators are provoked for so long, until one of them breaks the path of complaint or lets themselves become corresponding verbal reactions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The sponge is already sitting at the Clubobmannsessel!]] Then you and your friends would be at the goal: You could choose a new prosecutor, ladies and gentlemen, whose only goal would be to end these proceedings as quickly as possible without having examined them. Ladies and gentlemen! If that were the case, you would become the helper of a legal void against the rule of law! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I cannot spare you from the ÖVP that the accusation of silence also applies to you. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You too – especially your party and government leader – would have had the damn duty in this context – and he still has it – to ensure that criticism of this approach is exercised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (looking at the gallery) He's driving away the last people!]] They will have to live with the co-indebtedness of this damage to Austrian jurisdiction. Minister of Justice! Sign the independence of the Austrian judicial system: Step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11652	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11673	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. President of the Committee on Justice! Can I tell you something? – If someone falls into a bank and is rightly criticized – because this is a behavior that you really cannot tolerate – that does not mean for a long time that those who criticize the bank robbery are allowed to commit one themselves! That is what happened to me when you, Madam President of the Committee on Justice, referred to the SPÖ's approach at the time and, in particular, to that of the current President of the National Council of Fischer. At the time, the current president of the National Council was not the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria, but he was a Clubman of SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to defend the SPÖ and its behavior here at all – why so? Criticism of the behavior at that time is justified. But what is causing concern here, now and today, Madam President of the Committee on Justice, is the fact that you are defending precisely the same thing, especially those who are doing so intensively and intensively at the same time! As I said, the clubman of that time was not the Minister of Justice of the Republic, and it is not known to me that Dr. Sinowatz would ever have been Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Sinowatz was Federal Chancellor!]] Today we are concerned with those who should ensure the independence of the rule of law, trust in the rule of law, trust in the independence of justice, and that is our Minister of Justice, Dr. Böhmdorfer, who is right behind me! He's the one it's about today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There it is, Mr President-in-Office of the Justice Committee, really cheap – more than cheap! – not to go into the matter at all and to act on this point, as Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel has done to keep silent, not to express himself and to blame himself for his silence, for he who is silent is right! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No, no, no! That's not a guiding principle! That's a wrong opinion!]] They're talking about the thing and the core – that's it! – and I am concerned that if you did not fully understand this in this dimension, you should explain the difference: A speedy procedure to demand a rapid procedure is legitimate, but it can be quite inappropriate in a particular situation, and so it was: absolutely inappropriate and wrong in place – in my opinion. But today? – Today we are talking about the Republic's vice chancellor not saying: Please close the procedures quickly!, no, she says: If the procedure starts, there is nothing to investigate here. [[Abg. Silhavy: This is the scandal!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She didn't say that!]] – That is what happened here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Both Dr. Krüger and Mrs. Dr. Fekter said today that they should not interfere in the investigations and work of the judiciary. – That is exactly the accusation, Mr President of the Committee on Justice, which we are making to the Federal Minister: that he has already done so for a long time, that he has been in a massive interference here for a long time! What else is the appointment of Mr. D. Fasching in the investigations – almost as a "watchman" – to consider? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a "free guard"!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] As what would you say that the Minister of Justice, before anything else, said that Haider was superior to all suspicions, would be valued otherwise? What else is it if not a interference in justice when a Minister of Justice says that? What would you say about the fact that he intervenes with Minister Strasser to be reported on every step that happens in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs in connection with the investigations on the top-level coward? What is this, if not interference, massive interference, Mrs. President of the Justice Committee, which I believe you would have to be the first guarantee for the independence and impartiality of justice in Austria – and I emphasize "hate", well-known? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The two main accusations that we Federal Minister Böhmdorfer make in this matter is that he does not protect the prosecutors, the judges working here, although the opposition has asked him to do so several times – and again today – and has also given him the opportunity to do so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The poor! Maybe they don't want that at all?]] It would be a simple thing to do, but it is not a concern to the Federal Minister! No word has been said about this in its nine-minute response to the question – which is a record time for the response of members of the government to requests from the opposition, which has never been reached since I was in Parliament: nine minutes for 40 questions! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If the questions don't give up, you can't answer anything!]] But what can be expected from a minister of justice who, as already quoted, sends his opinion "over every suspicion" at the beginning of the investigations as a signal to the prosecutors, judges and investigative officials, who are massively criticized by the stand representative of the judges and prosecutors – not only as this fact, but also, above all, on the basis of this statement – and who is then on 15th. December – I emphasize: on 15 December. December! – an appointment to discuss with the standing representatives in the form of a conversation, where criticism has been expressed to the public for months now! I can't imagine, Minister of State, that if the Federal Minister calls them, they won't come, but you haven't been looking for this debate, this conversation! That is it, and this must be clearly established after a quarter of a year, ladies and gentlemen. What we are blaming you is the fact that, as the President-in-Office of the Court of Justice has said several times in public, the behaviour of our Minister of Justice raises concerns and concerns in the public with regard to the independence of justice. They don't protect the prosecutors! The opposite is the case: You're still following a "chapter" by your behavior! That is why, Minister of State, all the accusations we have made in the past and which we are now raising are clear: As Minister of Justice, you are not a defender of this rule of law, but a danger to him!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11829	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary time limit: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e11850	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, who unfortunately adopted himself very soon after the shattering of the shady dome on the liberals, has forgotten something very important before the draft urgent question: He forgot to come in front of his own door! Whoever has so much political inadvertent at his own door and is traditionally in the clinic with justice, has no right to point out with his fingers to those who want a fair trial, namely a fair procedure both to the authorities and to the public! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka! From all the opinions you have made to the Minister of Justice today – that he only wants to influence in the interest of the FPÖ and so on and so on – I hear: The bad guy thinks he is! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness of Deputies Dr. Kostelka and Schwemlein.]] I remember: They were club secretary at the time, we were together in the small coalition, and you tried to influence justice through our Minister of Justice Ofner. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it!]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] We know this from many other cases: For example, in the AKH procedure, the Minister of Justice has issued 20 illegal instructions aimed only at hindering the proceedings because they were "friends", ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You deliberately say the untruth!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] That is what you should say, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But those who are so influenced by the past simply cannot assume that there is a minister of justice who really stands out who does not give any instructions that really observes a procedure objectively! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This urgent question, for example, strongly recommends that Mrs Vice-Chancellor would have called for the termination of the procedure. This is already being condemned as a political influence! Ladies and gentlemen! The suspicion has not been compacted, as Mr Gusenbauer has said, but quite the contrary: The suspicion has degenerated, and that is why Mrs Vice-Chancellor has expressed the view that the procedure could be terminated. We are immediately pushed into the shoes of lack of rule of law because such a request has been made. This is a completely legitimate requirement, for example, after it has proved that the letter, which is supposed to have been written to Haider, is falsified! With your urgent request and with your allegations, you set much stricter standards than those you apply to yourself! You are always equally concerned about the rule of law, about the foundations of democracy, about the pillars of the Constitution. I would have liked the same sensitivity on many other occasions at the SPÖ! Ladies and gentlemen! They have, for example, made a judgment in the case of Sinowatz. You have not only called for the termination of the procedure, as can be seen from a press release – I think Mrs Fekter has already accused you – no, Mr Fischer, President of the National Council, at the time has put a very massive sentence: First of all, he said that the judgment was a "political pamphlet" – that must be borne in mind once! – and, second, he has challenged the evidence that is really the foundation of the independence of our courts. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This must be seen once!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But no one has said that of us yet!]] You totally forgot that! Obviously, you are really suffering from a memory wound as far as your relations with justice are concerned! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In connection with the Sinowatz proceedings, the most serious of all were the political influences and the massive accusations of the SPÖ, because this condemnation hurt you. At that time, the then Klubobmann Fischer qualified the process of justice as absolutely unfair. He has said that the statement of judgment is a "political pamphlet", as I have already said, and he has absolutely questioned the evidence, ladies and gentlemen! You should therefore consider whether your relationship with the judicial system is at all the rule of law, Mr Kostelka, a very honourable Member. [[Congratulations on the liberals as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough to present your disturbed relationship with justice, but I would like to give you a few examples: There was the judge Rieder, and in connection with the "Lucona" committee, the judge claimed that Tandinger had removed evidence. – jobs You'll have to do this once before: A judge is suspected of having disappeared evidence! Mr Rieder said this at a press conference. When a police officer asked him to give him a copy of the statements made at this press conference, Mr. Rieder made a scandal of justice. He said that this was a wrongful house search, although it was not a house search at all, but a modest demand of a judge who felt deeply affected. Mr Rieder tried to intimidate the judge at the time and spoke of an abuse of his judicial force. – These are your mistakes in the past, Mr Kostelka! I can also remind you of an event that just happened a short time ago: For example, Minister Scholten has provided the Burgtheater to the children's mühl so that he could carry out a judge's insult and a prosecutor's insult there! – This shows your ugly relationship with justice, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations to the liberals, as well as to Mr Fink and Mr Ing. Maderthaner.]] I can also recall how former Minister of Education Hawlicek and also Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky tried to intervene for the way forward, the multiple prostitute murderer, by pressure on justice. I think it would be high time for you to think about yourself, about your scapegoat! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser]] A final example – as I said, I could continue for a long time: When the Constitutional Court abolished family taxation, it was again Mr President Fischer who criticised this recognition of the Constitutional Court. He called the knowledge "unusual". He called for greater reluctance from the Constitutional Court. – Yes, please, is this the way of dealing with the highest judges of the Republic of Austria, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mrs. Mertel, as you think of judges, I know that when I think about how you used to insult me. There has always been evidence of what you really think of a judge! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Ing. Maderthaner.]] To complete Mrs Fekter's remarks: Mr President Fischer, who has always been particularly prominent in judicial policy, has qualified Mr Matousek's indictment in the case of Sinowatz to say that she is hardly worth the paper on which she is written. – Imagine, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that would do a more liberal thing when it comes to an indictment! That's where I'd like to hear you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Imagine that we would say that! That's unlikely!]] You have the right to make such a urgent request. However, I challenge your moral authority to address such issues to the Minister of Justice and to develop such a subject in the way you do. Finally, stop talking about the loss of democracy and the loss of the rule of law when the liberal criticisms and fears that a trial against them will not be conducted fairly. I am already at the end of my remarks: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Look at your relationship with justice, and don't hang on to Broda's thoughts that justice should be in the service of day-to-day policy. That is not our opinion!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12034	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12068	Mr Westenthaler, I have your size all over again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, that's not true!]] Obviously, it's going to be tight in the top coward. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why do you look so bitten?]] Mr Böhmdorfer did not answer the urgent question. He doesn't want to? Does he not know what to answer? I think he'll know why he refuses the answers. We have a lot to think about anyway. The People's Party actually refused the debate, she sent a speaker to the race, Mrs Fekter, who spoke about something else. [[Abg. Gaugg: But she told you everything that was to be said! It's a shame around the time!]] And you, colleagues from the Freedom Party, are beginning to shake the SPÖ, and always, if you do, I know that it is especially unpleasant for you what is being discussed in this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Minister of Justice! What made me particularly strange in your way of not answering our request is the credible inconsistency with which you have dealt with this request. I asked myself why you have such a truly credible misunderstanding on this matter. I think this is particularly important for two reasons. One thing your party colleague has quickly revealed to us by describing the arrogance as a practically constituent element of democracy and thus publicly announced how this scandal and this procedure are being discussed in your party. For you, this is fundamental and completely self-evident. This results in the misunderstanding of this request. The second point is that: They are obviously completely misunderstandingd by the concerns which a general public has expressed about the development of the rule of law on the basis of what has been going on in recent weeks. What's going on in the last few weeks? – This is what Mr Westenthaler announced with the "ultimative counter-beat" which in the first step directed against the Director-General for Public Security and his closest employees as well as the head of the Vienna Economic Police. And what was the big accusation? – One-sided investigations. Apart from determining where suspicions exist, this is a serious accusation, namely the accusation of politically motivated abuse of office. These officials have correctly determined on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and you, Mr. Justice Minister, have not received a word of clarification in this regard. They just let the critics be granted. Then the counter-beat came to the journalists, the famous statement about the "sick brains". It would not have been your duty as Minister of Justice to speak, I agree with you, but it would have been an act of political propriety to speak on this matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The second step and the next goal is justice. Mr Westenthaler has once again taken a special stand. He called for the judge to be amputated because he was suffering from terrible mistakes. I quote colleagues from Westenthal: The man "has not all of them", he has committed serious crimes, and the judge is caught. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I read about the fisherman! I quoted Fischer!]] The redundancies of the investigating prosecutors were also demanded. Why? Your old partyman then gave us the reason: because they had proved to have bended and broken the right. Minister of Justice! They're heavy-duty allegations. You're not an observer of your time. You are the Minister of Justice, and you must act when such accusations are made! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Why? Because you're saying it?]] Either it's something, then you have to act. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] Doing this But they are not, and for good reason not: because nothing is on these accusations. Or it is nothing but you must act, Mr Minister of Justice, and you must face up to the public pressure that your party has to face against the investigating authorities and their representatives. But you missed that again today. Even today, you have not said whether you have anything to do with the operation of the officials attacked here. Minister of Justice! They have an essential role in this rule of law. As Minister of Justice, you are responsible for the protection of this rule of law, and you must finally assume this responsibility. Emancipate at last from the role of the party attorney of the Freedom Party and finally assume your responsibility for the Republic! Your behaviour, Mr Justice Minister, far exceeds the pressure your colleagues are building from the Freedom Party, because you, Minister of Justice, are allowing this pressure. This is unworthy of a minister of justice and, above all, unworthy of our rule of law! Minister of Justice, I call on you to step back!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12215	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12237	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Partik-Pablé has dealt with justice and allegations made by other parties to justice. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With the SPÖ!]] I went into myself, Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: With the ratio SPÖ: Justice!]] I too have been critical of justice in the past, and I stand by it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But not as long as I am!]] In the Causa Gross, for example, I was very happy that – although the prosecutors initially meant that there was nothing to do with this causa – all four parties in this House – at the time also MP Krüger – were very critical about the errors of justice in this Causa. That is to say, it is our right to criticise judgments as well. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one has disputed that either!]] I guess we agree on this. It is our right to deal critically with investigations. So far this is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You also need to be able to criticise justice!]] But, Mr Westenthaler, it was reserved for you as the only one to say in the direction of an investigating judge: He is guilty of terrible mistakes, who "has not all of them". They said, "Hasn't she all"? – You call an investigative judge a mental illness, and the Minister of Justice does not say any word about it! That is what we criticize, and that is why the accusation is that the Minister of Justice is acting Partyically. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] No minister in this Republic has ever imagined that in such a causa with such accusations, it is not his officials. It has been reserved for you, Mr Westenthaler, to attack an investigative judge with absolutely unacceptable statements. And unfortunately it has been reserved for you, Mr Minister of Justice, to do so. You've been silent. Not only have you been silent in this causa, but you have actually kept silent on all the questions today. Minister of Justice! I ask you: What about the black money in your firm? Where did it come from? I know that as a minister of justice, you are not obliged to answer us questions about an incident that happened in your time as a lawyer. But the Republic and the people in this country have a right to know whether in the law firm Böhmdorfer may still be parked 5 million schillings in a small pile, whether the black money is still stored – then you and your law firm have to deal with it – or whether it has gone further and where it has migrated; whether it may have moved to your shooter Jörg Haider, so that this helicopter flight, peak or anything else is financed, or what else happened to this money. But you didn't say anything, you kept silent, you didn't even explain that the accusation regarding the 5 million schilling was unwarranted. You have not even said that, Minister of Justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where are the billions of Mrs. Steindling's Commercial Councillor?]] Mr Haigermoser! You can save me from having to qualify for your calls again, otherwise it will cost me a bit of a charge from the President. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mech! Mich, that's what it's called!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! It was also instructive to hear from you that, regarding the establishment of the second prosecutor, Fasching, you explained that the government had been talking about it. But, Minister of Justice, the question was: Did you make that happen? Have you considered what you said – you do not intervene in the procedure – in this question not behave differently? Are you in favour of your promise, you are not involved in the procedure? It has not been so that this enlightenment, which has come upon the Federal Government and has proclaimed: We need a second prosecutor, fallen from heaven. You have to answer that! That is why, Minister of State, you will also answer these questions. I'll ask you to do this. Don't make up your mind! You have not answered this question either. That's what we blame you. In the past, you have not answered any of the questions we have addressed to you and where the suspicion in the room is that you have intervened in investigations. I remind you of the Causa Schlingensief when you tried to turn the investigations into a specific direction when you intervened in a procedure, just as you explained it to the daily newspaper "The Press". They have repeatedly squandered all these questions and declared to Parliament: I've been misinterpreted, I've been misinterpreted, it's all very different! Federal Minister! There is nothing else as long as you do not clearly reveal the facts to Parliament here. What we expect are clear answers, and they have remained you guilty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister! That is why I believe it is necessary to make a new request for distrust against you. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12441	The request by Mr Oellinger bears the necessary number of signatures, is duly supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Kukacka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12465	Mr President. Dear ladies! High house! Greens and SPÖ have joined together for the first time today, as well as an ideological block, on this urgent matter. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Left block!]] For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, but certainly not for the last time, you have failed in this question. I can tell you this today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have clearly missed the opportunity for a constructive and objective discussion. Once again, they did not offer a concrete political alternative. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You have not provided a clear legal analysis, ladies and gentlemen. They've made nothing more than the old accusations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You've done what you've always done: You have expressed suspicions, you have made submissions, but you have not been able to present convincing facts. [[Abg. May. Posch: This is the Christmas talk of last year!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gusenbauer! That's what the public's got for a long time! Unsolicited You have these constant suspicions, these constant presumptions, precepts, and interruptions! In the long term, they fall back on those who are constantly expressing themselves, without being able to prove them in concrete terms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You won't be better if you keep repeating her. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: Neither do you!]] Let's keep back from all the one-eyes and unilateralities that always see the splitter in the eye of the other and never the beam in its own! That has long become unbelievable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Muttonen: But this is more true of you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Greens in particular are concerned, I do not wish to express any undifferentiated flat-rate suspicions. But there are them, this closeness to violence, this closeness to violent demonstrations that are always in need of information. If these accusations become visible and recognizable again and again, I miss the clear distance from them, ladies and gentlemen. That is what the Greens or at least those who profess themselves clearly and clearly to the rule of law should finally express themselves to. Ladies and gentlemen! Be self-critical enough to be able to do that! You always take action to defend the rule of law, if you believe it is politically opportunistic for you. A variety of evidence and quotations show that many of you are always working with prejudices, with suspicions, with precepts, when they believe that this is useful to them politically. This means, in particular, Mr Pilz, who is always and primarily producing himself here as a "superscandalist", as an over-condemnator, who always believes that he must defend the rule of law. At last we want to hear from him a clear commitment to this rule of law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. As what would you call yourself?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to advise you to make yourself in common with Mr Pilz and to be always excited when he leads his attacks. Mr Cap once said – and I think he knows what he's talking about: Mr. Pilz is just as inhibitive a populist as Haider, just with another story. – That has a lot of true things in itself. If you analyze the nature of his argumentation, then you know that this is more than right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was Mr Pilz who was reserved for the first time in history to ask for a breach of law since 1945 when he called for a refusal of order. It was Collaborator Pilz who did not distance himself from the legal violations and violent outcries in the operal ball demonstration, in which among other things the words "fire and flame for the state" fell, but justified them and even spoke of a conscious police provocation. – That was and is the position of my colleague Pilz. Someone who thinks and acts this way is not suitable for the defence of the rule of law! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Pilz is not to be taken seriously by other people as a political moral apostle and to give other parties in matters of the rule of law and respect for the independence of justice good advice, ladies and gentlemen. There are a number of quotations that would still be presented here. I also think of colleague Petrovic. In case you have already forgotten all this, read the article in yesterday's issue of the newspaper "Die Presse", which is very clear and clear about the fact that the Greens have a split relationship with violence and the rule of law in this country, ladies and gentlemen! Your accusations, which you always raise here, are only credible if you distance yourself from your dubious actions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Austrian People's Party is clearly on the side of the rule of law, it is also on the side of independent justice, and it also stands for the equality of all before the law. Of course, the ÖVP also stands for the right of demonstration and freedom of expression, and of course we defend it with all the political possibilities we have. This will not change in the future either, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party will continue to be a guarantee of the development of the rule of law in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12620	The next speaker is Mr Pilz. This is his second word, with a remaining speaking time of 1 minute. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12641	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'm asking for understanding if I don't need all the speaking time. Federal Minister! In your firm you found the following file note: Under "Please, treat very confidentially" a note dated 30. January 1996 reports in detail on the work of the liberalized peak system involving a prosecutor. A witness has said that a whole series of such file notes can be found in your firm. – Mr Federal Minister, I call on you to disclose these notes! Secondly, Millions of black money have flown over your firm. – Mr Federal Minister, I call on you to disclose the origin and use of these black money! Thirdly, Because you are not willing to protect the rule of law, the judges, the prosecutors and the investigating bodies against attacks by your party friends and your mentors, I renew my call: Mr. Federal Minister for Justice, step back and take up your learned profession, party attorney of FPÖ, under the right title!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12679	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12701	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Federal Minister! I am only going to deal with one of the aspects of our urgent question today, and I am willing also to respond to Mr Kukacka's requests and to address only those things that have been proved. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What about the Praschak?]] I will not give you any precepts for things that have not been proved or would not prove. I will try to point out that we are still in a worrying situation of the democratic rule of law, and that is, among other things, your responsibility, Mr Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer speaks with the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] – Mr Federal Minister, I would be glad if you listened. Federal Minister! They are the Federal Minister of Justice and no longer the attorney of FPÖ, no longer the attorney of Mr. Haider, Stadler and so on, they are ministers of this Republic and responsible for justice, their independence and their reputation. [[Abg. Haller: But you don't!]] The independence of justice and the impartiality of case law are fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. But you, Mr Federal Minister, do nothing to ensure the confidence of the people in the independence of the case law and the impartiality of the case law. You don't even do something to support this trust. Federal Minister! For weeks we have been experiencing the unique attempt of the Freeman, Mr. Haider, Mr. Westenthal and Mr. Stadler, as well as Mrs. Riess-Passer and others to miscredit the system of justice and the police. For weeks we have been experiencing the attempt of the liberals to present a case for criminal investigation as a socialist villain. For weeks now, we have been trying to discredit all the officials involved in the investigations, whether they are police officials, prosecutors or judges, to dissuade, because they conduct investigations against the liberals. In view of this, are you talking about the government fractions here of innocence?- Oh, my God! – You have apparently escaped the way in which Mr Westenthaler has dealt with officials of the Ministry of the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: How did you deal with your officials?]] You're talking about innocence here and playing the innocence lamb because you're so poor just because the court has found reason to find out about the liberals against you?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Let's talk about how you intervened in the Oberwart investigations!]] For weeks now, you have been in the process of damaging the system of independent and impartial justice, partly also because you want to distract from the accusations raised against you because of the suspicion of having committed criminal acts. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The investigations in Oberwart, Mr. Ex-Minister!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The investigations in Oberwart!]] I think, Mr Schweitzer, that you have no reason to lead to the investigations of the Chief here a large lip. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where you intervened!]] Think of Mr Magdits and others who are close to you and who have misdetected them, then you would not talk about it any more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You have intervened there massively!]] I understand the Members of the Liberals, I understand that the Freemans are very happy to be distracted from the accusations. I understand that They do not like it so much that a system of organized public information, i.e. information from the Ministry of the Interior, seems to have taken place. I understand, but the attempt must have limits, ladies and gentlemen. The attempt must then have limits when it comes to the limits of the damage of the rule of law, because the fun stops there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] For weeks now, that party, which you, Minister of Justice, nominated for the office of the Minister of Justice, has damaged the rule of law, the Look at the courts, the prosecutor's office, the executive, and you're not saying anything about it. They do not present themselves to the attacked judges and prosecutors. They do not require respect for the independence of jurisdiction. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk to Mr President!]] They do not demand respect for the mandatory work of the prosecutors, but they declare that Mr. Haider is above all doubt in your eyes. This is a strange rule of law that you are showing here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! There are more people in this country every day who are concerned about the development they are observing here, and this concern is growing from day to day. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stop the crocodiles!]] There are more and more people who fear that the development that is taking place in front of their eyes and which follows a shameless strategy of the liberals and the fact that you are silent, if it is favourable, or that you are talking in a more unfavorable case, will lead to a state without justice. High house! People in this country want independent justice. They want confidence in the case law, they want the same right for all. Apparently you always enter the house from behind by the liberals and therefore never pass the statue of Pallas Athens. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Pallas Athens is a symbol of independence, but above all of equality before law. It has related eyes because it is about exercising justice without the person's attention. You don't seem to be aware of that. If it goes against you, then every means is right and then the rule of law is no longer a measure for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! People in this country want those responsible in that country to comply with the rules of the democratic rule of law. They also want those responsible for this democratic rule of law to defend him. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's why you were rejected!]] Mr Federal Minister, you have a very special responsibility here. They are responsible for the independence of justice. They are responsible for the fact that prosecutors are able to determine their duties in accordance with the law. I do not think there is a right for accused persons, judges and prosecutors to evade the system of justice as a whole, even if it is liberals who are accused. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! I therefore ask you to: Imagine those who were attacked here. Make it clear that you are in favour of an independent judicial system and that you do not accept attacks, even if they come from the liberals, on the independence of the case law, on judges and prosecutors and see this as an attack on the rule of law as such! Mr Federal Minister, show responsibility for the office you are carrying out! Let me add one last: I have not now referred to those accusations referred to in our question, but, Mr Federal Minister, although only part of them should be true, this would be a reason to withdraw immediately. I have not referred to this issue, but I ask you to comply with the responsibility you have as Minister of Justice to ensure that justice in that country continues to live up to the demands of impartiality and independence. But if you do not want to meet this requirement, I invite you to make your office available, because that would also be an act of responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e12954	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13002	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! You, Mr. ex-internal minister, have the slightest right to play the Morala Apostle here, because [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] It was you who scared the people of this Republic when you acted as Minister of the Interior: They were the biggest obstacle to the investigation of the Second Republic! Example: Oberwart bomb attack: Everything was allowed to be examined, just not the left side. The left side you left out because it was – and this is also known in the meantime – that has transferred donations to the "TATblatt", a magazine that calls for violence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] That was your form to lead the Ministry of the Interior. That's why I have to say: They are the danger to the rule of law! The only thing left of your speech is public information. [[Cheerfulness of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Schweitzer.]] That's really sensational. What to understand You're under "Exploration of Public Information"? – Reading newspapers, listening to radio and television? Now, for example, the ban on public information begins again by distributing the newspapers, the tomorrow editions of "Kurier" and "Krone". They are highly disbelief. You, Mr. One, go down here and say: This is a free scandal!, incredible!, but forget that there is a countryman in your party in Carinthia – Schober is his name, maybe you know him, otherwise the Carinthian colleagues can give you some information – which, unlike the liberals, is still suspended. He is still suspended from service, but he was suspended only after he had to be massively pointed out that he was actually one of the top queryers of this Republic. But you're always talking about independent justice. I also do not understand that you want to make permanent rules to the Minister of Justice, how and when and where he has to act. This is to a great extent unbearable as you do! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There goes a Member of Parliament from you and says: An arrogant way to answer! – Yes, we can't do anything for the personal feelings. If you express this opinion, then that is right. The fact is that it cannot be that way, and that is now finally ending in this Republic. The Freeman under Partyobmann and Land Captain Dr. Jörg Haider are not free-wild of the left moral guardians in this Republic! You'd like to. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We're not your wild game! You, Minister of the Interior, have failed to act in the way that a Minister of the Interior would be honoured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] There is a Mr Klaus Schröder, chairman of the section of judges and prosecutors in the Trade Union of Public Service, which calls on the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to intervene at last. What a presumptuous thing!Unknown term type: "%s".? What do you want? It's under pressure! You and your party members, up to the President of the Federal Party, Gusenbauer, are trying to exert pressure, except for the highest organ in this Republic, which you call on to respond, just because it does not fit you and the people in your ranks. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I need to give you one more way. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Now we're excited!]] Slowly it really gets boring: It is in the meantime the sixth mistrust against a Minister of Justice, who, as you know, has over decades of high legal standing in that Republic, and will also have in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: In representation of the FPÖ!]] It's unbearable how you want to deal with it. He's not a comforter, but he's an honest man. Finally, put your unbearable human hatred against the Minister of Justice of our Republic! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That would really give you a democratic reputation again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13128	Mr Leikam has spoken on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure very well. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13161	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaugg has just made the claim here that there is in Carinthia a Social Democratic MP named Schober, who is still suspended from the service. I'll put it right: The immunity of Mr Schober was abolished by the Carinthian Landtag. Suspension has never taken place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Strange! You know why?]] That is why Mr Gaugg's statement is wrong and false, and I am putting it right here.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13197	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Justice under Article 74(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the need for such a decision by the National Council, as referred to in paragraph 2 of the Constitutional Treaty, for half of the Members to be present, I expressly note it. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13239	I take the negotiations on the 4th. Agenda item: Capital market offensive law. First of all, Mrs Mag. Pecker. Your speaking time willfully is set at 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13265	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice chancellor! High house! Leave They are again talking to me about a legislative change that will strengthen the Austrian economic location and improve the situation of many workers and businesses. I would like to highlight two aspects in the discussion on the capital market offensive law: on the one hand, the aspect of the employee, the change in corporate culture and the labour market situation, and on the other hand, the situation on the Austrian capital market and on the Austrian stock market. Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a change in corporate culture in the relationship between employees and employers for many years. Our employees are much more open-minded, they want to cooperate in the success of the company, they want to bear responsibility, and finally they also want to be involved in the success of a company. This, of course, is due to the situation of a more working society, where it is only possible to produce real business decisions through the help of qualified employees. On the other hand, we also have a situation on the labour market, which is very encouraging: We have the lowest unemployment rate for many years. This, of course, also leads on the business side to a stronger shortage of qualified workers. This concerns, as we know, workers in the field of the New Economy, in the field of computer and the Internet. However, companies are also increasingly affected in the area of the so-called Old Economy. I can really speak from my own experience that it is becoming increasingly difficult to find qualified staff, especially in the technical field. I would like to give you an example from the business day-to-day perspective, from which you can see how it is going about there. It is increasingly common for employees, who are only relatively young in the company, to invest a lot in training, internal and external training, and to be voluntarily agreed on several salary increases after one or one and a half years of several headhunters, who are also doing more and more business in large numbers. This well-trained and very useful employee then confronts one with the desire to switch to an area of the so-called New Economy, where he has a stronger success stake. It is then already true that we, as companies of the Old Economy, are also considering the models with which we link our employees more closely to the company, as we can more closely participate in the success of the company. Therefore, I believe that it is all the highest time to put in place measures that create the tax advantage of employee participation. The second aspect is the situation on the Austrian capital market. We have already heard that far too many companies have too little equity ratio. Growth and innovation can often only be poorly financed. It is also one of the most frequent insolvency reasons in Austria that there is a weak equity cover. These are, of course, reasons why we should think here in this direction that we should strengthen the equity ratio for companies so that we can also revive the capital and stock market in Austria, which, unfortunately, is still a development aid project. Mrs Hagenhofer, I would also like to say to you: Don't pretend Stock Options are the only thing a employee refers to. I think it will be totally impossible to employ an employee... – Yes, it always sounds like that, I have to tell you. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: You said: Don't do that!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] No company will be able to pay an average salary to its employees as well. This means, of course, the possibility of stock options is based on them, but above all it offers an incentive in international management. We do not want the employees to move abroad, but we want them to see a chance in Austria, stay with us and make the business location really more attractive.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13309	The next speaker was Mr Böhacker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13330	Mr President. High house! Mrs Hagenhofer! I got the impression in your speech that you simply didn't see through the classification of stock options and employee participation, otherwise you wouldn't have messed up herb and beet constantly. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Have you all become nervous!]] You once talked about one action and then about the other. Mrs. Hagenhofer, it should also be known to you that in a globalized world Austria cannot escape from international developments. Those who are now ousting themselves from international developments remain on the ground, and standing still is a step backwards in the economy and in the workers' policy. But we want to avoid that with this capital market offensive law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know very well that the Austrian capital market is essentially underdeveloped, that the stock market in Austria has a modest existence and that the Austrian economy needs more equity, more risk capital, not from Jux and Tollery or just for entrepreneurs, but to safeguard jobs and create new jobs, and that capital is necessary in order to be able to re-establish such investments even in difficult times when the economy suffers a delle. This requires equity, and this equity can be created by appropriate capital market laws or capital market measures. If you, Mrs Hagenhofer, have spoken more about casino mentality, elbow tactics and such things, including extensive tax advantages in the context of stock options, I would like to resist this: Have you ever considered an example, but not that of the Chamber of Workers, drawn by the hair? With a capital input of 800 000 S and an increase in value of 500 000 S in four years through the optimal development of the stock prices – what, do you think, is the tax advantage, have you calculated this once? – are exempt from tax under this Act 60 000 S, of which a maximum rate of tax is 50 percent. This is a tax savings of 30,000 S. That's what you call extensive tax exemption policy? [[Calls of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] Mrs Colleagues, you are simply familiar with each other and do not take any note of it. You don't even know what it's all about. Now to employee participation: I don't understand you at all, and above all I don't understand the Chamber of Labour. They oppose this request against the employees. [[Abg. May. Firlinger: That's it!]] Please, what do you have against the fact that an entrepreneur participates his employees in the success of the company, in the capital, voluntarily, without compulsion? You leave your employees in the lurch! You know very well that in Austria 3 percent of employees are involved in companies, on the European average, not in America, but in Europe 13 percent. Do you really want to miss this train? Do you want Austria to become a capital market developing country? We don't want that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want a modern development in terms of job security and a strengthening of the economic location. If you, Mrs. Colleague, always think that the evil managers want to maximize profits at any price, then I have to resist this: [[Abg. Hagenhofer: No, not at all!]] Obviously you have never been to a farm or have never run a farm. I dare to say: It is not possible to maximize profits without the agreement of employees. It needs a proper understanding between management and employees. If you don't have that and just set it to maximize profits, then you won't succeed. If the Chamber of Labour writes that this law is a social policy mistake, I claim exactly the opposite. This is a way to the future! We want progress and not arrears!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13419	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Maderthaner. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13440	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there are no current EU comparisons on employee participation. The last known value in Austria – and it is also recorded in the government template – is 3 percent. However, it must be assumed that employee participation in Austria is certainly too low compared to other EU Member States. This was also reflected in the statements made by the previous speakers. Even if one assumes that the share has increased by privatisation and exchanges over recent years, it is still too little. We have to make further increases in this area. It is important and essential to link excellent employees to the company through a participation. Ladies and gentlemen! Business participation models – which can also be demonstrated – are growing rapidly and creating more jobs. That is why it is a model of the future, as the previous speaker has just said, and not an error, as the Chamber of Labour claims. The reason, in my opinion, is simply that, through corporate participation, one can achieve higher motivation and a better awareness of costs as a whole. The dual role as an employee and as an entrepreneur also increases the willingness to focus on what is desired in the market and how, so to speak, to make the joint venture even more competitive. Ladies and gentlemen! Stock exchanges listed companies with employee participation models show higher price increases, which is also likely to be due to the positive effects of employee participation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Employee participation also raises to a certain extent the polarization between entrepreneurs and employees and at least strengthens the partnership relationship between companies and employees. The employee will almost become a co-operator. This is precisely what does not fit the representatives of the Chamber of Labour: that most of the employees then know that they are actually a co-operator and can therefore also contribute to the fact that the company can act even more strongly on the market than before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In any case, this also corresponds to the basic concept of a social market economy, which I say very clearly. The social market economy also includes the widespread spread of property. Employee participation is an important element in the spread of ownership, on a voluntary basis, as Mr Böhacker said earlier. This is essential: Voluntaryness to be able to participate, and not the pressure to do something, is the guideline. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] In recent years, stock options have already gained importance as incentive systems for management and employees – see stock market-oriented companies – thanks to God. Stock options are also available in some listed companies that have very significant progress. Today, stock options in New Economy companies are an important tool in the competition for highly qualified employees. I said that, of course, one can keep the really well-qualified staff in the company or bind them to the company in an interesting way that corresponds also to the employees. Ladies and gentlemen! Young, innovative New Economy companies are not yet able to pay adequately high salaries at first, and must therefore look for other ways of offering stock options alternative ways of recruiting skilled employees, keeping them, and so to speak, ensuring a good job in global competition. Stock options are also not dependent on a current stock exchange listing, because exercise can be postponed to several years in contract. In addition to these specific benefits, the general benefits of employee participation apply in this case. I've got to get to the end, because the light's already lit. Ladies and gentlemen! In any event, we want the Austrian economy, which has developed and developed so well and today is competitive worldwide, to be able to participate in the global competition with best employees in the future, and to participate successfully. It is important to find new ways to bring the best employees to their own company, as it were, or then to keep them in the company. This is a good way that we should go in the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13515	The next speaker was Mr Egghart. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13537	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In view of the economic structural change and the technical and organisational changes in the working world, the increasing pressure from global competition and the challenge of the planned enlargement of the EU, measures must be put at the centre of Austrian economic policy to ensure the competitiveness of the Austrian economy and to create additional jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since the measures taken recently have been able to increase the number of jobs, a trend change can rightly be made. In order to achieve full employment in Austria, it is necessary, in particular, to strengthen competitiveness and to strengthen the modernisation and capitalisation of the Austrian economy. The lack of innovative capacity and insufficient technological orientation are among the main problems facing the Austrian economy. In particular, high-quality industrial services must be forced to compensate for at least the structurally dependent decline in classical industrial productions. I see a major problem especially in the non-or insufficient risk capital. The Wiener Börse dumpels the often ahead of itself. On normal exchange days, only two thirds of the traded unit values are often set up courses against the background of often falling rates and sales. Given the weakness of previous governments' decision-making – see pension reform! – the capital market is of great importance. It is a decisive lever to trigger growth and employment shifts. In the United States of America, more than 40 percent of the assets of private households are invested in shares. In Austria, only one sixth of the companies listed on the stock exchange, led to one from a partial ignorance, to the other by risk aversions, puts their money on the stock exchange. In addition, there is a need for socialists in particular to nourish their envy. Shareholders are considered to be speculators who want to enrich themselves at the expense of others, scramble unemployment income and do not need to tax it. Left circles see the stock – free from Karl Marx – as the epitome of capitalist unculture and evil. They are abusing a connection between high unemployment rates and rising exchange rates caused by Manchester liberals. Even left-wing circles could not seriously claim that the 150 000 shareholders were responsible for 300,000 unemployed in 1998. Only and alone were former, rather lame governments. The Wiener Aktienbörse is therefore not an affordable source of finance for capital hungry companies to date. The cumulative price value on the stock exchange traded shares for gross domestic product is not 20 percent. There is a lack of risk capital at all corners and ends, which will become apparent especially in the coming generation change. Many companies will not find domestic buyers, which will lead to further deterioration of the property in Austria. In order to ensure the financing of rising social expenditure, previous governments have strongly turned up the tax screw through several tax packages, and yet we have come to a total debt of 2,200 billion schilling. Our economic location suffers from far too high labour costs, the world's lowest retirement age, an international comparison to short annual working time and the longest study duration in the world. Without structural change, Austria's economic location is threatened to fall further by international comparison, with all the consequences for the population. With globalisation, we are facing the biggest economic challenge in economic history. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the high-product sectors of the old industries, jobs are actually lost through technological development, but innovative young companies acquire new market shares, ensure productivity and create new jobs. Therefore, more attention must be paid to high-tech production. But especially the future market in Austria, which lies in many small but new-tech companies, requires risk capital, as it has only a very thin equity ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen! The same applies to the lack of training of information technicians. Today, it is lamented that too few programmers exist on the domestic labour market. – All of this has seriously damaged Austria’s economic development, and the main managers are now also on the opposition bank. The new Federal Government, on the other hand, has recognized the signs of the time and will secure the future of the Austrian economy by means of these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13607	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 407 of the Supplements. Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Article I(10). Since there is only one request, we shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 407 of the supplements as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Mr Dr. Stummvoll and Mr Comrades. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval here to give a sign on this point. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment 321/A by Mr Hermann Reindl, Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer and Comrades on a Federal Act, with which the Federal Law on Special Provisions of Service for Delegated Institutions, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 95/2000, amended (408)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13673	We shall now proceed to item 5 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13701	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll make it short: We had a debate about early retirement pensions a quarter or a half of a year ago. In this debate, it was found that many companies have misused the rules on early retirement, especially in the banking and insurance sectors, to early retirement of persons with a "golden handshake" and transitional arrangements. We had a debate in which, in another context, railwayers were accused by the government parties of enjoying unjustified privileges. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have this law in place, which is because in many cases the federal government does without any cost estimate, without any perspective, and now says: In our area, it's okay if we push people with a "golden handshake" early into the old age pension! Ladies and gentlemen! The following must be said to you: It was you who have demonstrated in recent months individual professional groups for alleged privileges, you have said in recent months that people are getting involved in early retirement, and you are now, when it comes to your, our regulatory area, the public service, public services, saying: This must be done in this area, as this is not a problem. I would be very surprised, ladies and gentlemen, in the next two, three, four years not any representative of one of these government parties would then accuse those people who are now being sent into retirement that they enjoy unjustified privileges. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is what we criticize, ladies and gentlemen. I have nothing against the fact that the early retirement arrangements are based on an agreed early retirement scheme, but I ask for a certain criterion and not the way in which this is made a special right for certain persons, for certain groups, because the state is calculating to save something under certain conditions, namely those of exclusion, and there it is meat. You don't care if that makes a private company; you've criticized it. That is why, Mr State Secretary and Mrs Vice-Chancellor – Mrs Vice-Chancellor, I did not see you before – we criticise this regulation. A few months ago, you raised the age of retirement for early retirement to 56,5 years, but now you're putting it down for these age groups and saying that's okay. – Please, according to what criterion is measured here? I say to you that we have no problem at all with the provision of early retirement schemes, but with a criterion that applies to all, even if in individual cases there will be many who consider this retirement to be liberation, especially after years of criticism by your side for their supposed privileges.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13767	The next speaker was Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member. Four minutes. [[Abg. Edler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 4 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13802	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to follow where Mr Oellinger has ended his speech. In principle, I would like to say that social democracy will agree with this initiative. But of course we also have to make comments on this. I believe that when it comes to structural changes and outlays in the public sector, It is certainly also necessary, as was the case in the private or semi-private economy, to agree on special service regulations, and we decide today. However, it is critical to note that, in particular, the representatives of the government during the discussion on pension reform not only – that has already been said by Mr Oellinger – my professional colleagues, who have stressed and attacked railways, but also other groups of persons who had to go to the so-called early retirement. But now the Federal Government is actually doing the same thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] This measure also costs money. According to this law, the costs are estimated at around 32.8 million Schilling, because the corresponding less-income of pension contributions can also be expected or pension contributions paid to contract staff. We have, of course, held discussions with the relevant public service trade union in connection with this regulation. It is also acceptable to these, but linked to future ideas. If there are changes in the field of service law for colleagues, where no outsourcing is possible, they must be able to use this model of early retirement if necessary. I think it would be fair to allow Mrs Vice-Chancellor to do this not only in the event of an outsourcing, but also other colleagues who are affected by this type of reform and structural adjustment in the public service. I've already said it: We shall vote in favour of this proposal, and I have made the relevant comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13859	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13880	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr State Secretary! First of all, I would like to focus very briefly on the comments made by my two previous speakers. In my opinion, they did not understand the basic principle of this bill. In fact, it is not so much or actually not about someone being sent to early retirement, but about the fact that this Federal Government has undertaken to restructure the very large area of administration, to restructure the administration into a service area, to give the administration the opportunity to act as a modern service sector. To this end, it is necessary – and this is done as well; it has already begun to do so – first of all because of its core functions and carry out a task reform. This idea is based on this proposal for a law. [[Abg. Edler: Where's that?]] In other words, wherever the State withdraws, where a task reform has been carried out, where there is a breakdown and a certain job is no longer necessary either to the distributed service or to an area of the federal government where this job is concerned with disseminating, due to the changes in the reform, the social plans are to take place. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a completely normal process in the economy, and it is precisely this system that is designed to bring about a level playing field in the management of the economy. This is justified in my view and is also extremely necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am glad that the Social Democratic colleagues agree with this request, and I would like to stress a political point which I feel is particularly pleasant – in fact I would like to praise the government – that the government has conducted social partnership talks that were possible with the Public Service Trade Union, and that the Public Service Trade Union has shown a willingness to reform and has reached appropriate conclusions with the government. That is the very positive part, and as a result we will be very happy to give our support to this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13922	Mr Reindl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The clock is set to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e13943	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The declared goal of the new Federal Government, the reform coalition, is to make the state slimmer. That is, the state must separate itself from activities and costs that are not part of its core tasks, as my predecessor Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer has already said. [[Abg. Oils: Education!]] – Education, Mr Oellinger, is a key task of the state. That's for your information! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But that's where you're separated!]] Public administration needs to be made more efficient, innovative and economical. High house! The word "parity" has not been written large among social-democratic German Chancellors and Social Democratic Finance Ministers over the last 30 years, not overly rigid. The word "parity" had little to no significance in the budget policy of today's opposition party, the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] How else can it be explained that a debt mountain of speech and writing has accumulated about 2,000 billion schilling? Due to this debt mountain, the Austrians have to daily – daily! – Around 680 million shillings pay for repayments and interest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] Of course, it would be much easier for today's government to proceed with debt policy and thus with the policy of purchasing votes, but debt making is irrational and irresponsible. [[Abg. Edler: Go, go, go!]] It burdenes the next generations, and that must finally end! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Today's application for the current agenda item offers employees of the public service, who have been assigned to a distributed body for permanent service, and other servants who remain in the Federal Service, but whose work is left out as a result of the disbursements, a social plan on the part of the service provider. This social plan provides that, at the age of 55 and at the age of 5,5, staff members of the previous institutions may take leave of retirement prior to retirement if they make the written declaration that they wish to leave the service at the latest at the age of 61,5 years. This rule applies, justifiably, not only to officials but also to contract staff. An important criterion is that the use of the social plan is always based on voluntaryness, that no one is forced to do so. Those concerned must in any case voluntarily agree to the selection. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! 80 percent of the final monthly pension as a retirement pension is a social, attractive and fair offer from the service provider, and I am convinced that this social plan will be adopted by very, very many staff. With reasonable measures – and this social plan is such a reasonable measure – the new Federal Government will really achieve its ambitious goal, the zero deficit in 2002. Ladies and gentlemen! We are already on the best track: away from the state of administration, towards a modern state of citizens and services.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14034	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Riess-Passer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14056	Mr President. High house! Eliminations are an essential part of the withdrawal of the State from all areas in which there is no need for state or public action. However, it is also important that we create the conditions for the successful functioning of disseminations, especially in the light of past experience, when disseminations have partly caused more costs than before. That's a model we don't want to represent. In connection with what Mr Oellinger said... – Mr Oellinger, if you had the goodness to listen to me, I would like to say something about what you unfortunately misrepresented here. [[Abg. Oellinger talks with colleagues in the political groups.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a coffee house over there!]] This is not a pension model, it is a karenz holiday model, and this is a very important difference that I will be happy to explain to you. [[Abg. Oillinger: As with Bank Austria!]] In particular, the difference is that a new pension scheme is a long-term measure which is generally applicable to all groups of the population, while this is a clearly defined karenz leave model as a transitional solution for structural reform in public administration. [[Abg. Oillinger: As with Bank Austria!]] That's something completely different. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There's no mention of a "golden handshake." Do you know what a "golden handshake" is? – A "golden handshake" is something to destroy people in the economy and give them a special payment to increase their motivation to leave the company. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What happens in this case is something completely different, namely a karenz scheme, in which employees who cannot switch to the distributed facilities and for which there is no other use receive 75 percent of the last reference. This is also the difference to the regulations you have referred to with the ÖBB, where it is quite different, because there employees can retire much earlier, partly under 50 years old, with their full pension. This doesn't have the least to do with the model about what this is all about. The staff members shall be members of staff in disbursed bodies as well as members of staff in federal bodies whose work is abandoned as a result of the transfer of the tasks to the distributed body. No one else! I am also saying this clearly because you have suggested that this should be extended to other regulations – Mr Edler was, not you – but that is not the case. It is quite clear that this is limited to the two areas mentioned by me. There is also no possibility of postponing these posts in the federal institutions. The planned posts will be withdrawn due to the absence of the workplace with retirement or with the termination of the service relationship. It is not a priority interest to release employees into this scheme, but a primary interest is to continue to enable employees to continue their employment in areas of public service in which they are needed. I believe that it is also the primary interest of employees to have a meaningful activity to complete a meaningful job, and only if this is not possible does this social plan model take effect. It is of course of the utmost interest to continue to enable employment where it is needed. That is why, contrary to previous social plan models, it is not a ban on secondary employment, but the possibility of accepting secondary employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] This is then deducted from this partial pension and again brings a significant savings. Mr Oellinger! I would very much ask you to look at things a little more closely, because you would find that what you have said here is wrong and that it is a very sensible arrangement.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14149	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 408 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (396 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the Health Insurance Act, the Federal Law on Documentation in Health, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act and the Social Insurance Supplement Act, and on motion 338/A by Mrs Reinhart Gaugg, Dr. Gottfried Feursteinand comrades concerning a federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act and the Farm Social Insurance Act (2. Social security amendment law – 2. SVÄG 2000) (409 of the Supplements) 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (395 of the Supplements): Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the restructuring of the health care system and the financing of hospitals and the installation (410 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14225	We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Lacner. The voluntary time limit is 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14253	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! If I am dealing with the health policy of this federal government again today, I have to say: It is the same as a week ago: except for expenses in the form of self-serving for the people of this country, nothing has been done! I believe that the sad evidence of an initial paradigm change in this country's health policy is to increase the amount of prescription fees and increase the amount of treatment. If for us Social Democrats the fate and needs of the people were at the heart of our actions, it is obviously for you at present the insurance companies, the medical lobby and the pharmaceutical industry. If we have created social democrats for this country one of the best health systems in the world, your government has managed within a few months to permanently damage this excellent Austrian health system through a social cold policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The basic social consensus on social security, which has always been promoted by social democracy, is one of the most important foundations of freedom and democracy in our country, replaced by a policy of individualization and de-olidarisation by this government. So no longer that model of solidarity between the rich and the poor, between the old and the young, and between the healthy and the sick, is your political idea of a future-oriented health policy, but the de-olidarization and belief in the effectiveness of quasi-market economic mechanisms that I mentioned are the precepts in this area. At the altar of money, all the principles that have made this country one of the richest countries with high standards in health policy are to be sacrificed. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now come to the newly ignited discussion to talk about the introduction of self-reservation even on medical visits. Mr. Feurstein – he is currently not in the hall – opened this match on Monday. He demands 20 percent self-retaining during a doctor's visit. Mr Köck von Liberalen Forum has immediately licensed this to the top and even demands 50 percent self retention. Mr. Feurstein then assured me in the committee that there is no intention of a restraint, but I can only say that it is clear to me that this government is already planning the next blow towards two-class medicine. This was certainly not a coincidence or a misinterpretation by the press, but a targeted incentive to introduce self-hold even when visiting a doctor. First of all, Mr Feurstein, we should talk about the problem or the nature of self-maintainment, because numerous studies show that the non-use of benefits may result in significant adverse health damage. For example, a study carried out on behalf of the US Parliament has shown that self-eligibility models can only save costs in the short term. Since self-participation not only prevents unnecessary therapies from taking place but often also prevents necessary diagnostic and therapeutic treatments, higher follow-up costs in the medium term to long term. There are, of course, another number of arguments that actually argue against the introduction of further restraints: that high self-retaining or self-interest, for example, in connection with an insurance system, are price-provoking, that self-participation results in takeover effects, and that service providers usually beat self-retainers to a large share on the price. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] It is of course also true, Mr Commissioner, that self-interest concerns multi-morbidity to a large extent. I don't think I have to tell you that. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... Hospital financing!]] Mr Pumberger, I have also read these supplements, but the measures currently being taken or the situation of the facts speaks a different language. This clearly goes in a different direction. [[Abg. Gaugg: Why do you agree?]] We will vote in certain areas, Mr Gaugg, but let me first speak. [[Abg. Gaugg: This is an adventurous speech!]] You could say now, of course, that Mr Lackner is expressing his views on the opposition against such restraints. But as far as I know, AK President Dinkhauser from Tyrol is a political colleague of yours from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Gaugg: He knows everything!]] – Yes, he is a very successful man, he has more social policy grips than most ladies and gentlemen in this House. He has rightly found... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] I have already pointed out that, Mrs Mertel, at least in this area. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction SPÖ) That's where you looked! You looked at your group, first!]] Mr Dinkhauser has put this to the fore: "The discussion of patient self retention in medical visits is as unnecessary as a pub". – Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add to this. He is a very failed person and has just submitted the following argument: "It must finally be noted that a contribution increase is excessive. For about ten years, the health insurance contribution has not been increased with effect on health insurance. Everyone knows that in these ten years medical progress has developed further to the benefit of insured persons, but this is of course also linked to enormous cost increases." – There is nothing to add to that either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me briefly address the issue of compensation for damage caused by treatment in hospitals' funds, because, as I said, you are going to take the path of the slightest resistance. Ladies and gentlemen! Not the contaminants are asked to check out, but the patient is asked to check out. If that's what you want: Their model is similar to a contribution that a pedestrian has to make to the eventuality that he is once hit by a driver at the trittoir, in order to obtain compensation. So really a harsh idea you want to realize here, ladies and gentlemen. In turn, it is carried out on the back of the weakest of this society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way – I have, of course, looked at this KAG novelle, ladies and gentlemen – you have had long-standing, innovative ideas, which have already been under the Social Democratic leadership in the Ministry of Health – exactly, Mr. Colleague! – have been initiated, such as the subject areas, the departments and so on, here in the form of legislation, so as to pack them in the ÖKAP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You didn't read that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Adornable.]] – Of course, Mrs. Colleague. I can also give you what I have here, if you don't believe it. As I said, We will give our consent to KAG-Novelle and Article 1 and Article 2 – except for § 27 in Article 1. Ladies and gentlemen! In my view, health policy is certainly not an experimental field for the introduction of neoliberal instruments. Social security regulation functions should not be left to market legislation, otherwise it can only be too easy to achieve the actual objective of social health insurance and thus of health care, namely to establish and maintain social justice in the event of illness for the social insured person, from the point of view and to lose sight. Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the contradictions in this House, it should be undisputed that there should be no room in health policy for a two-class medicine and for access restrictions. It must be possible to ensure equal access to health care, good medical care and sick without any financial fears through policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy stands for these values for the benefit of people in this country. You, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, have apparently left this path. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14415	The next speaker was Mr Leiner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14436	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friend Lackner, I think we finally understand ourselves very well in relation to our ideas, as far as I have noticed this when we talked to each other, but earlier on, you have put very different accents in the foreground. I know only one thing: that in 1992 the then Minister of Health was commissioned to ensure with those 22 points that this health system can be financed. But he didn't do anything. This health system has become a disaster – through your government and your ministers. Now you have finally accessed and picked up the problems. Measures have been launched to ensure that a sound and good health policy can be made. Now you've really taken steps. I thank the government and, above all, the Ministry for having had the courage to address the problems in the appropriate way, even if they are unpleasant. I would now like to make a few points to show why, in the end, it came to this disaster, why health becomes so expensive and how one can take appropriate measures. First: Through medical progress, we have developed a system that has led to an infinite cost explosion. But this cost explosion is accompanied by an increase in efficiency and at the same time an increase in performance in the health sector. It is not the medicinal products and related services that have become expensive, but the services. In this area, we have a great deal of effort to make, especially with regard to the care and the very special services that are offered, and this cost explosion presents difficulties for us. As a consequence of this explosion of the feasible – second – a rationalization of good health is inevitable. This means that progress in medicine does not necessarily make people healthier, but, as I claim, even sicker. In the past, people were either healthy or without a chance, today a lot of people lie in the hospital for a while, and then they don't come out completely healthy, but also not quite sick. I remember the severe operations, organ transplants that result in very difficult treatment moments. These things also make our health system expensive. The application and achievements of modern medicine can be delayed – third – by ration, but never stopped. In the last hospitals, modern medicine will be introduced and these expensive instruments of performance will also bring with them. And fourthly, The hospitals are of course particularly affected as a spearhead of the progress of the rationing force. There we must take appropriate measures. This government also has the courage to do so. The rationalisation of health goods can, however, not mean a loss of humanity and quality. At this point, I would like to express great praise to the officials of the Ministry and thank them, especially the head of section Gaugg, who really tried to bring this quality moment in. Because only when unproductive waiting periods are eliminated, synergies are used and double-tracks are eliminated can increased economic efficiency be incorporated into the hospital system. We are about to achieve an optimization of the structure, a high structural quality, an optimization of the processes, a high process quality, an improvement of the results, a corresponding result quality. Already Goethe wrote to Frau von Stein in 1798 – that's quite interesting already, I don't know if you know it –: "I think it's true that humanity will finally win, but I'm afraid the world will become a big hospital and one of the other human nurses." - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14502	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14524	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This law was intended to push forward on and for itself binding national planning instruments and quality assurance measures. Of course, there is no doubt about the need for these measures, and you would find me as allies in this respect, but I look into the content of the laws and into the texting, which lives more of omissions than new ones, of course, will need criticism that can go to partial rejection. I also declare to you that, of course, the Haste shown cannot be a target, because if you got these comprehensive central health policy materials into your hands just ten to fourteen days ago, these must now be decided immediately after more extensive – with the word "introductory" already being a mockery – so that they can be decided with 1. In January 2001, because otherwise we would be missing all the regulations in the LKF system, we have to ask ourselves how serious such an approach is, and also the accusation of having little respect for content, ignoring the meaning of this content, and also the accusation of being superficial. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every man and woman will confirm this to you, even if they are not of the subject. In the end, they put off the allegation that complex problems are simply too embarrassing. They are degrading Parliament and us as its Members to nothing as a means of fulfilling a voting machine, which ultimately does not allow a good and really reasonable policy. [[Abg. Gaugg: Is not true!]] It's true, even if you don't understand. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Gaugg.]] - Then take a look! Health problems in the field of actuary, rehabilitation, psychosomatics and decentralized psychiatric care, which were in principle correctly recognized and also formulated, have become – what have you become? – Retarded once again at the end of 2001. Others are now expected to proceed quickly from a structural commission in agreement with all the contracting partners of the decision on 14 November. ==References== The Council agreed on a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Please agree!]] Are you really completely aware of whether this is possible or not? In other words, we now live with you from declarations of intent and experience – and this is annoyance to me – a relatively powerless republic which ultimately leaves much in the bubbling for the consent of the countries, which has been declared earlier as indispensable and urgently necessary. That's it! Finally, you can still somehow feel the desperate ringing around more skills to central control. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (a rubber ring pulls into length) These are rubber arguments!]] – You can play with the rubber band if you want, but I give you to remember: We're not here in any autgeriatry, nor in any acute psychiatry! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll tell you: The funding lines that you have always addressed as the greatest obstacle to sound structural planning are still too numerous, they are still too diffuse and too poorly defined, and they are also not a suitable instrument to enforce any structural measures with soft pressure or with slightly raised index finger – as you would need to do with the partially somewhat outrageous countries and their finances. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: (newly pulling a rubber ring into the length) These are rubber arguments you have there!]] However, when calculating financial distribution keys, you were perfect. I have seen that until the ninth decimal place has been calculated, and one could really believe now, that is precise, fair, honest and transparent, except for the schilling. I've taken it back, but in the end, there's a bit of fairness and precision going on here, which eventually gets through your fingers when you look more closely what's inside. But so good, so beautiful. Let us take a short look at Article 16. What does Article 16 say? - That's what it says: Payments made by the social security funds to the countries shall cover all services provided by hospitals in the stationary, daily and spiral-sampling areas. Mr. Pumberger! Is that really so inside? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I'll check if you've read that at all!]] So you're not ready yet. Okay! Now, if one goes to the bottom of this courageous sentence, I see that there must be a certain degree of legal certainty in the budget and in its planning. I understand, and I can accept that. However, remember that the advances in medicine are not as easily calculable, but are still easier to calculate than all the complications and fluctuations in diagnostics, one will easily come to the realization that there is finally hypocrisy. Not all benefits can be paid for. What kind of structural consequences does that have? The cash registers have relatively little interest in fighting vehemently to relieve the stationary area and strengthen the established area. How should they, no matter what the cost of therapy in the stationary area, no longer have to pay big ones? – I think that is understandable, Mr Pumberger! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's now come to Article 18 – I've probably missed 70 percent of my speaking time now, without only stripping ten percent of the paragraphs, but that's also profound discussion –: Article 18 speaks of the LKF. And what's there to read? – It is claimed that the service-oriented hospital funding is to be achieved – I am telling you only part of the following: shorter legging duration, reduced hospital frequency, a shift of services into the outpatient sector and the reduction of acute beds. - Listen, listen! True is only the first sentence: The duration of the leave has been reduced, but the hospital frequency has increased, the shifts in benefits to the outpatient sector have not taken place, and in the case of the reduction of cots, it has already been more or less appropriate. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: (in the direction of SPÖ) That was this policy!]] Yes, that was this policy! I support this, dear Günther, but I would very much like to see that we can find ourselves in consensus about dreams and utopia, too, so that it gets an intrinsic implementation. I think that's necessary because paper is patient. We read at the LKF about how you write necessary maintenance measures. I need to get a little cynical. They probably mean adaptations, but they call it maintenance measures because we've been waiting for action forever. I hear from the countries over and over again, they don't think about opening up and repainting psychiatric beds, they don't think about repatriating surgical beds in the acute Geriatry – probably because they get more points for the other beds. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Hallein!]] - Hallein, that's okay. Now we're putting Hallein against Innsbruck, where one of the decisive officials says, so it's, you don't think about it. I think that the Federation needs more strength, but I always realize that the original approaches are increasingly divided. With every new variant and new design of this law, a strength and courage so to speak break through your fingers. You didn't touch hot potatoes at all. I mean the problems of university clinics or private medical fees. You were really right and courageous, you were only with the self-maintained. There you were. That is, you're going to write something mostly without trying to find common and consensus where they'd be found, too, with me. Some of you think as I do, I say now, and I know it too. But I'm sorry that what's in your heads can't get over your lips here. With the word "damage" – because of saying "health" or "for the good" there is no reason for this law – I end my remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14691	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14712	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Greenewald has failed to tell us whether he will agree to the government proposal or not. I would've been interested in that. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Your attention will not escape!]] - Good. After the foreign exchange: There's nothing good but you do it! Of course, one can also blame the government for working too fast. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: "Speed kills"!]] In essence, however, this does not mean that this is a standstill, but rather the possibility of a movement. You should use that. However, I am pleased that the Socialist Group will vote in favour of the government proposals. It is all the more surprising that Mr Lackner said that this measure, which regulates hospitals, would be socially cold. The question is: What was more in halving the pocket money for the plumbers and the like. Since 1996, there has been no valorization of the care money, and yet new debts have been made. There was the social cold really bad. The accusation that we would leave the path of a functioning health care is certainly going empty, because in many areas of health care, but above all in the matter of social security as a whole – not just with regard to self retention – it would be necessary to bring about harmonisation of systems, including administrative procedures and similar things more, because it is not to be seen that there is a different method of accounting if a farmer receives a flu than if a worker becomes ill. These are unmistakable museum extra expenses that are indispensable. It is already true today that there are different self-esteems in all areas of insurance, both for railways and for officials as well as for farmers and for self-employed persons, but also for the social security of workers and employees. In cases of glasses replacement, tooth replacement or dental regulation in children, which are today in many ways and As necessary, parents make contributions in two-digit thousands of amounts that go sensitively into money. It would be time to find a new billing mode, and then I would end up putting great hopes in the structural reform committee, which is now being set up. This Commission should also include a patient lawyer and a representative of the Austrian Medical Chamber. I hope that with the help of this Structural Reform Commission and the harmonisation of social security systems, it will finally be possible to harmonise the calculation. The question of why measures such as self-retaining or how ambulance charges are necessary is not serious here. Finally, we know that the social security institutions – and Mr Sallmutter is always present in the public – have caused huge deficits in recent years. It is true, as Mr Grünewald said, that progress is not always measurable, but we can nevertheless draw lessons from mistakes and ultimately ensure that those social security institutions that are concerned with ensuring the health of the Austrian population take steps to ensure that they are also eligible for funding. Actually, we've had the two-class medicine for a long time. These are on the one hand those who can afford it, or those from the nationalized areas where an additional insurance is paid, and on the other hand those who remain there. There is nothing to be said about it in principle, but in this context I am thinking of how the SPÖ has dealt with health care in many areas, not to mention the primary doctor's order. There has not been a chance in red wool-colored doctors to get a leading position or similar in a hospital in a federal state with a red head of state. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: In Tyrol it is the other way round!]] In Tyrol it is reversed. In Lower Austria it is, I fear, also the other way round. – That’s why I say: Just the SPÖ has no right to throw it with mud. The present Article-15a agreement allows for a high-quality, freely accessible and equivalent health care. It also ensures that regional and country requirements are taken into account, taking due account the further development of health medicine. We have ensured an integrated, coordinated planning of all areas of health care and a greater involvement of the established area. These government documents guarantee the continuation and development of a sound health care system for the future. It is important to say thank you to all those who have contributed to this now. This is a compliment to those who have negotiated this law within a very short time. I am convinced that these legislative decisions are another positive signal for Austrian healthcare.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14779	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14801	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that, as the current discussion shows, a large majority of this House will vote in favour of the Article 15a agreement. Finally, what has been said about criticism at individual points is relativized. I believe you will be right if I say that in the field of tension between federalism, regional interests and federal interests in this area, not only in the second revision of the ÖKAP, but also in its first revision and also in the adoption of the Austrian Hospital Plan, has been apprehensively implemented from the outset. On the basis of the lack of timetables for the original implementation and for the first revision of the EKAP, some federal states have postponed the measures to be taken by them to the last half of the year and have thus successfully been stolen from the commitment. This is no longer possible in this way, at least after the current implementation of the quality criteria in the fields, in the departments, but also in the minimum facilities. I am sure you will also be right when I say that, despite Austrian and European legislation, we still have a lot of shortcomings in the employment situation of professionals in hospitals in Austria, but we can say that the current revision in this area is a step forward. We were able to improve quality standards in the human sector. We have managed to make this area not only more personal-friendly, but above all what I consider as a health minister to be particularly important to make it safer for patients, because it is clear: Overloaded and overexploited staff, which provides 24 hours of service without interruption, is unable to deliver high quality in the required form. Mr Lackner, who has criticised Mr Feurstein's statements on 20 % self-retainers in the established area, I would also like to say one thing: I can't remember that in the last 20 years, social democracy has ever complained about 20 per cent of the self-retaining of railways, postal staff, federal staff, even the lower levels of income of the D- and C-classifications and the new occupation beginner. I can't remember that the self-sustaining of the farmers and the self-employed have ever led to a great complaint on the part of social democracy. Therefore, Mr Lacner: If, in the past, and under the single social-democratic government and then under the social-democratic majority government, there has not been a loss of solidarity among the small railways, I wonder why, at one time today, you are putting this issue here as a reason for the outbreak of the solidarity community. I am quite prepared to discuss whether this measure is necessary, but I say very clearly: This Federal Government has given enormous financial resources to health institutions as a whole and to social security schemes in particular by means of self-maintenance and by means of a large number of increases in fees in 2000. As the Federal Minister responsible, I would like to see some time now how far the time horizons in the field of pecuniary matters and the savings and also the budget injections we have made in this area have an impact before I start a new discussion on reorganisation. If the President of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, Mr Dinkhauser, thinks that we need this discussion at this stage, then I give him the right to discuss it, but I believe that we should, for a time now, observe whether the budget injection, as planned by the Federal Government and just as the Parliament decides here, is sufficient whether, in accordance with the same number criteria we have set, it will also take place, whether the savings targets set for the year 2000 will also be achieved, whether the reduction of the deficit, which we have already brought from 5.9 billion schilling to 4.5 or 4.6 billion schilling, will continue continuously next year on the basis of the options of the first three or four months. Then, of course, we will discuss whether we jointly reorganise or consider the system of self-retaining, ambulance fees and all other charges in this area to be sufficient. One thing, I believe, should also be in doubt: that progress in medicine, as you have rightly said, Professor Grünewald, and others here, goes so far as to ensure that the health system is safeguarded on a regular basis, whether what we once implemented in the large-scale equipment plan is really large-scale equipment today. I am thinking about how imaging diagnostics have changed in recent years. You will give me the right if I say that today the prices for MRs are about where in the early days the prices for CTs are located. The high cost of the large-scale equipment plan is no longer caused by the large-scale equipment itself, but by the staff effort involved, and I wonder whether we will continue to be able to finance the high personnel costs in the future, to provide modern diagnostic resources around the clock to all citizens, or to all those seeking assistance, in appropriate quality and qualified staff. I believe that this EKAP revision has its right, and I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the other parties to the negotiations, on all sides, most warmly for the fact that this time in four months it was possible to achieve this task. However, I do not want to apologize for the fact that, as some of the opposition’s speakers have criticized, the documents have come too late. We also originally have some projects from the 58. ASVG-Novelle had worked with one another, and we had to take these out again on the basis of an agreement with the opposition parties in the presidential, and you can imagine that unbundling of law matrices from a total convoluted of more than 150 pages, including explanations and counterparts of old and new text, takes some time. I therefore ask that even in my own field, when things that have already been prepared have been re-explained, I should like to see a certain debt for the delay effect and therefore for the short term, and to look at the texts of the legislation which are now in place with the comparisons and evaluations of the old and new texts also under this light, and not only to see a malice by the government behind all these things, but also to the extent that my knowledge at the time of the presidential meeting was at least one representative of each group who carried these positions and concluded this compromise. I therefore believe that today a good package of agreements with the countries can be adopted. I will ensure that the necessary revisions during the time when I am politically responsible are also prepared in such a timely manner that we can then look at a similar period of time for the next revisions in five years as for these negotiations, namely four months. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14860	The next speaker was Mr Lacner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14881	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister! I should like to make the following brief request:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14951	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Lacner and Mr Genossins, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Rasinger is speaking as the next speaker. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e14975	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Lacner, your speech would actually have been quite appropriate four years ago, namely to the Zusperr plans of Minister Kramer, who wanted to lock everything up. At that time a cold was felt, not today. Save 12,000 beds – that was pure bed-depleting cosmetics! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This would, consistently thought on, mean English states, where there are no beds in a flu wave. Today we have an intelligent policy. Because we're rebuilding, we're building up new things: Autgeriatry, Psychiatry, Hospiz. We don't want care like in Holland, where people are euthanased. And if you have set up the socialist saintship of health policy today, I ask you: Do you really know that the Lower Austrian District Hospital does not pay the dialysis in Lower Austria and send the patients to Vienna who need to be diagnosed at zero? Where are you? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I prefer the kind of Secretary of State Waneck a thousand times, who, instead of simply giving money and running cosmetics, has achieved a good result with the countries, including SPÖ-led countries, calmly and persistently. Here I mention only the results of the children's cardiology, transplant, dialysis, the AKH package together with the SPÖ government in Vienna, the Private Hospital Package. And if today we are to shed tears about self - the Minister has already said it in connection with the railways - I have to ask you: Where is your response to the fact that in Austria there is no single child psychiatrist at health insurance costs, no pain therapist at health insurance costs? Are you not aware that this means 100 percent self-retain? In my opinion, it is health-political spirit driving that you want everything, but in the tank there must not be a spray in it at all. You will find us side by side in the fight for a high quality level, against a two-class medicine and for a good regional distribution. But only slogans of cold, which is supposed to be noticeable, and nothing else – no thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15023	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15043	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Reform instead of stagnation is the motto of today's changes in health care legislation, and I am delighted as a hospital doctor who has been active for more than 20 years, that the legislative reforms to be adopted today are starting real reform, namely structural reforms in health care. Reform, that is, for us not an untargeted wave of stress through general increases in contribution – that is always the easiest – but it is necessary to check the resources spent throughout the health sector for optimum use. It has been shown that there are savings potentials of 6 billion schilling only in the area of social security, and before these savings are not used, an additional, purely non-specific burden on the population simply does not come into question through increases in contributions for us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Reform, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear commitment to a high-quality hospital medicine. In the future, it will be a matter of ensuring that the services provided by hospital care are in the right place to meet the right needs that are adapted to the patient. And that also means away from the ego trip: Everyone does a little something, and everyone does everything. A meaningful restructuring and an effective health care plan are necessary, and contrary to all horror reports that have passed through the newspapers for weeks: No hospital beds will be lost. There are no hospitals closed, but the hospital beds are being restructured, away from the beds, from which we simply have too many in Europe, to very sensible facilities, namely to the acutgeriatry – I hope like you, Professor Grünewald, and I am sure that this is really happening – due to the demographic development of our society and due to the necessary better care of our seniors, to rehabilitation, to the chronic patients with the creation of hospice beds, to the creation of palliative medical facilities, to psychosomatic beds not only for adults, but also for the treatment of psychosomatic diseases of our children. – A very, very important effect. I believe that an important structural measure is also the creation of small units, the creation of small day clinics, the creation of small areas of expertise in hospitals which do not have these priorities at the periphery, where these priorities are also adapted to the peripheral regional needs. The important thing in our health system is: to identify and specifically fix needs – not to be removed from the reality of operating health policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Removed from reality – and there is still a great need for action, Minister! – in many cases, staff policies and hospitals are still provided with doctors and members of all other health professions. There is still a huge difference here and a huge rebalancing between the centres and between the peripheral hospitals. It is very often an absurd to notice a really absurd refusal of reality and a renunciation of responsibility from the responsible civil servants and the institutions and politicians. Quality in the hospital area depends largely on the presence and motivation of those working there in the health professions, and I therefore ask that the human factor be kept in mind when it comes to the very positive introduction of quality assurance. Another, especially for me as a radiologist, is the networking of information technology in health care. This will ensure one in the future: that the necessary documentation is also in the right place for the treatment of patients at the right time. For me as a radiologist, digital networking, digital image transmission is a very important thing. I also ask here for real awareness of reality: We don't build – with all understanding, with all intents on data protection for patients! – from an exaggerated security thinking again insurmountable obstacles, again insurmountable security codes, so that the advantage of rapid data transmission, namely that the data is then where we really need it, falls victim to a restricted and narrow computer thinking. I am a member of my group, because it was for me from the beginning the power of reform in this country, and we are also taking a strong and further step forward in health policy. Congratulations, Minister! Congratulations to the officials of the ministry! May our hospitals not become sick institutions, but oases of health.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15120	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15142	Mr President. Minister! After the reorganisation and financial security of pensions, the financial security of hospitals is decided today, Professor Grünewald. And if you don't agree, then refuse. They send a billion schilling to the hospitals of the municipalities and the countries 42 billion schilling in 2001 and private hospitals from 2002 onwards. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand. I do not understand that you say that the agreement between the federal government and countries is accepted by the SPÖ, but the financial security is not accepted. Mr Lacner cannot go to his hospital where he was employed and say: Yes, I have been in favour of funding, but he will have to say: I have rejected the financing of the Bludenz Hospital by the decision in the National Council! He did not agree to the amendments to the financial bases, namely Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the Social Security Act. Ladies and gentlemen, this has to be clearly stated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also incorrect that pension increases are different for pensioners than in the previous years. It is not right for pensioners to be found here that the new pension adjustment will take money from pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen! You know exactly the net adjustment on which the increase of pensions on 1st. It was introduced under Minister Hesoun in 2001 and has been confirmed by all the other ministers of the Social Affairs. It has to be said clearly. It is also not right that there will or could be a deterioration in invalidity pensions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the contrary: We secure the devaluation of the money, as set out in the SPÖ's request, by paying off inflation by means of pension increases to 1. In January 2001 in full, and we guarantee the compensation recipients an additional: Alone compensation recipients receive a special payment of 350 S, married couples of 500 S. There is thus a balance in the order of nearly 2% at an inflation rate of 1.5 percent in 2001! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is an improvement; our request in this area is still being submitted. I believe that pensioners certainly do not get great increases, but they get such an increase that their standard of living is guaranteed in 2001, and we will continue to do so. The pensioners will not be impoverished by our policies. They would be impoverished if the debt policy were to continue. We have come across this, my own. Ladies and gentlemen, and we will continue to work for a constructive and good social policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15200	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15221	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You seem to have resigned in your opposition policy – haven't you? Then: Where's your health professional? Is he no longer interested in the debate? I have to say, I'm really disappointed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: He's sick! He's politically ill!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Shall we call him?]] You have been doing social and health policy for 30 years, and now that you're in the opposition, don't you even care? Well, that really doesn't speak for you! On the other hand, your country politicians write posters, ads: Sickness makes poor, hospitals are closed! - Everything that doesn't vote. With your killer phrases on posters and ads you just want to insecure. Please put yourself in the position of a patient or an employee in the hospital if you are afraid your hospital will be closed, afraid that you will lose your job. [[Abg. Huber: Yes, with you!]] All of this, Mrs. Colleague, knowing that this is not true. This is a policy that I do not think is useful and should not be worthy of a SPÖ either. Who do these killer phrases actually use? The killer phrases, you think, are useful to you so that you can be re-elected. But I can assure you that this is your political suicide, because the voters know who they have to choose. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen – and the Federal Minister has already said it – that the Austrian Hospital Plan is a second revision. The first revision and the creation – who did it? It was created under your care, and so many changes from the sites have not occurred in this regard. Have it back then. You didn't just talk about closures, then you really wanted to implement them. Your goal is simply the negative message – and nothing else! Our government has targets, our Minister has very well. I'm only allowed to take four out. The first goal: Stationary acute care is intended to be ensured through efficient, needs-based and in line with each other's performance, i.e. from bed thinking to performance thinking, to structural planning, together with the countries in the regions. Point two: The Acute Hospitals are intended to ensure the most uniform and accessible, even economically and medically meaningful care for the Austrian population. What does that mean? – This means simply a meaningful cooperation between hospitals, more flexibility and accepting that not everything can be done everywhere, but that it should not only be made quality medically, but also economically meaningful. Point three: The hospitals covered by this plan are intended to be permanently relieved by shifting benefits to the outpatient and rehabilitative areas so that hospital frequency can be reduced. You know that this is far too high in international comparison. And last but not least, I should like to mention one very important point – Professor Grünewald has already mentioned this – namely the palliative stations, Geriatric units. – Professor, this will be implemented. I am pleased to note that this issue will be a topic of the future, as I have already pointed out in the Steermärk Landtag at that time, because we are increasingly struggling with the ageing of the population and should adapt and adapt to this. Finally, our government, our Minister, has promoted a controllable hospital planning, and I would like to thank not only him, but also the appropriate head of section Gaugg for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15297	Mr Dietachmayr spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start playing the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15325	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Feurstein said in his speech that there was no deterioration in invalidity pension. I'm actually correcting him: Through the non-social pension system of this Federal Government you have increased the deductions from originally 2 to 3 percent. – With this, the quoted statement is incorrect. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But there is a most favour, as you know, Mr. Cot!]] Mr Feurstein also stated that the net adjustment had not been changed. – This is incorrect, Mr deputies, because you have changed the observation period from next year to last year. This is more or less a double blow against pensioners, because as is known, the inflation rate in 1999 has been very low, and this doubles the pensioners. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: This is not a double blow!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15374	The next speaker was Mr Pumberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15417	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank Mr Waneck and the Minister of Social Affairs for having achieved a negotiated outcome with the federal states in the shortest possible time, that is, only four months, so that the Article 15a agreements can be agreed and that they can find a broad majority in the House. Thank you very much, Minister of State! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This guarantee of hospital financing is all the more important than we know that the LKF alone, the performance-oriented hospital financing alone could not inhibit the feared cost increase in the hospital system. At the time, we still strongly criticised this as an opposition party, when the SPÖ left a debacle with its disastrous health policy, as Mr Leiner said. You have only introduced the LKF, after 18 years of provisorium with the so-called KRAZAF, without any structural reform! All the experts, all the hospital economists and all those who understand something about health care, have told you: This cannot go well; without structural reforms, the LKF alone will not grasp. [[Abg. Oellinger talks to Federal Minister Mag, who is sitting on the government bank. Chief.]] Mr Oellinger, I think you are not taking care of this. Now we also have structural reforms. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Greens always wake up when someone speaks to the Minister!]] [[The speaker is waiting until Abg. Ollinger went back to his seat.]] – I think I now have 2 minutes of credit at the speaking time. I assume that the Minister of Social Affairs was so polite not to send you to your place. It is up to you whether you have so much courage to give the Minister the opportunity to follow the statements of the health spokesman of his party. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Don't be so strict with us!]] We finally have structural reforms in it. There is a conversion of cots into beds in other resorts where we urgently need them. We have no more need of sinteurs, as the SPÖ has always represented, just so that it could remain at the number 72 000. That's not what it's all about. The hospital stays are also becoming shorter and shorter in the acute area. Therefore, there will be capacity free, and so it is possible for us to reduce the number of cots. And there are also structural changes in this reform, such as that we strengthen day-to-day clinics that strengthen day-to-day surgery. The Group Practice Act will soon be adopted so that we can offer effective alternatives to the stationary area also in the established area. And this time we also have the private hospitals – finally! – included in this area of performance-oriented hospital financing. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of this has fallen asleep by the SPÖ in its long-term government participation, just as the health speaker of the SPÖ, whom I still do not see, has done everything possible to sleep. [[Call the SPÖ: Shall we call him?]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Where is he?]] He's still not here. The first opportunity, the first appearance as a SPÖ health speaker, and he's not even in the hall! – Where will he be? [[Abg. May. Posch: Where is he?]] He may be with Liesl Pittermann and ask them if he has to make the swivel now that he has to be for the complete release of the drugs. [[Ah-Rufe in the liberals and congratulations of the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Yes, that's how it will be, because Liesl Pittermann has always gone to the speaker's desk in here and has said that as long as she is a health speaker, there will be no liberalisation of drugs. Now it has left its line around the price of the health of our youth to buy a city council chair and is for a complete release of drugs! – Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Lacner understands, then good night, SPÖ, good night, left health policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15547	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15568	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I refer to Mr Feurstein's speech on improving the situation of compensation recipients or increasing 350 S for single and 500 S for married persons and making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This means that all compensation beneficiaries receive a pension increase of 2 per cent for 2001.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15688	Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15712	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The chairman of the social-democratic pensioner association Karl Blecha seems to have bright-seheric abilities. In a press release at 12.26 p.m., he made the statement that the senior speaker of ÖVP Bruckmann would not agree to an initiative proposal, which was only submitted 24 minutes ago and which none of us have seen. Blecha will be right with his Hellenic abilities. I will not accept this request and can easily say why: because this request is once again from the category "Small Prince" that you command the sun when it has already risen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can recall that last July, with the agreement of the chairman of the Social Democratic Pensioners' Association Karl Blecha, the extension of the net adjustment originally due to Social Democratic Social Ministers was decided – as said: with the agreement of Karl Blekhas – which, according to a supplement of the calculated net adjustment to the rate of inflation. The fact that the inflation rate is the calculated 1.5 percent for this time is due to the fact that the civil service has been said that no further period than August to July can be chosen, but the next year will naturally be the same. A strange detail is added: Originally, in a long discussion with Federal Minister Chief, the Council of Seniors agreed that this additional amount should be paid evenly for all pensioners in the form of an increase of 0.8 to 1.5 percent. However, the scheme now provided for is one in which the pensioners receive more small pensions, and that is the vast majority of them. The strange thing is that Mr Obmann Blecha, who always claims to have a special heart for the small pensioners, seems to have nothing left for the little ones to get more than the inflation rate. A word of thanks is still due to the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Family and Generations, who made it possible by repatriation in his budget – and I would like to expressly thank him – for the amount of an additional 350 S for single and 500 S for married compensation recipients in the amendment just tabled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'll get you together. There is no reason to accept an initiative that requires less than what is now planned by the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15773	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Gaugg, Dr. Feurstein and colleagues is sufficiently supported, in an appropriate context, so that negotiations and voting can be conducted. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft law in 409 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Lacner has made a request for a separate vote. In addition, Mr Gaugg, Mr Feurstein and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the request for a separate vote or the amendment referred to above, in a row by row, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 21 in Article 1, as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign in this regard. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. I shall now vote in accordance with the request for a separate vote on the remaining parts of Article 1 as amended by the Committee's report. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The cast farmer is against the pensioners! He's not here!]] Those Members of the House who stand up for it, I am looking for a positive sign. – I see the unanimity. That's what it's supposed to be. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. Deputies Gaugg, Dr. Feurstein and comrades have tabled an amendment which refers to Articles 3 Z 20, 4 Z 6 and 5 Z 6. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted again. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lacner and Mr Comrades on the adjustment of pensions in 2001 at least with the rate of inflation. [[Abg. Gaugg: Where is the paintmaker?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is Mr. Lacner?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The cast builder is not there either!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to approve the conclusion of the present agreement and the annex in 395 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. [[Abg. Gaugg: ( towards SPÖ) Well, what now? The clubman's standing!]] – I notice: This is the majority, and it is accepted. 8. Point report of the Committee on Budgets on motion 324/A by Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvolund comrades concerning a federal law amending the Night Heavy Labour Act and the Holiday Law (411 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15904	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. The first speech comes from Mr Riepl. I give him the word and ask him to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15931	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! I am glad that Mr Pumberger is still in the hall. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: I'm always here!]] I do not wish to object to a comment from you. I think that, among colleagues - as a doctor and as a comment towards Mr Pittermann - it is actually not – in my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that something is said to be wrong – you know that – is not true. You can't buy a town council chair, and I think that should be put right. It is unworthy of you, honourable Member, to make such claims. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: But it is true that she is now for the complete drug release!]] High house! The present request by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Stumvoll concerns amendments to the Holiday Act and the Night Heavy Labour Act. The proposed changes therefore concern groups of workers in the hotel industry, in the host industry and those workers, especially in industry, who have to do night work and at the same time also heavy work. This request was made on 22 March. This year it was introduced in such a way that it was voted on today and once again prevented the consultation of labour law laws in the Committee, which was actually responsible for the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! On the present amendment to the holiday law, I would like to say to the Socialist Group in this House that: First: It is good that the opposition and trade unions have succeeded in preventing the threat of non-social abolition of unemployment, especially for seasonal workers with temporary service relations, as the government parties have proposed. It is bad for us, and I believe that Mr Bartenstein, the Federal Minister, has made himself a regulatory authority which still allows him to intervene in agreements between the social partners, i.e. in collective agreements. At the same time, however, it has been proved that the collective contractual partners in this sector have competence and have agreed on a model for the extension of employment, which would make any government by you, Mr. Federal Minister, unnecessary by regulation. That is why we do not understand why you insist on this regulation. For seasonal workers, it is not always easy to lose work every year, to seek new employment again, and in fact never to obtain entitlements depending on the duration of employment, such as the completion of work. For the seasonal farms, however, it has become easier – this is remarkable and should also be noted – since the liberals are in the government, for example, to get foreign workers in the season and, above all, to get those that are absolutely wanted. This is often done at the expense of domestic job seekers. I wanted to say this explicitly because, compared with earlier years, the quotas in the field of seasonal work were considerably increased and this will also have a negative impact on the domestic labour market. Now a few remarks to the Night Heavy Labour Act, ladies and gentlemen. At a time when the Minister of Finance is tying a savings package after another, so that the little ones are not supposed to be burdened at all, so that the big ones are supposed to be asked to cash out and by which it is supposed to go better for everyone in 2001, that is, next year, anyway than in 1999, at a time when all the measures are supposed to be social and fair, at a time when the Minister of Finance seems to turn every million three times before he spends them, there is nothing but another huge gift package for the economy of almost 300 million schilling behind this change of the Night Heavy Labour Act. One cannot understand this in the explanatory remarks and read it, that will be kept silent in the bill, that will not be commented – but it is so. I'm surprised that this is so quiet and secret about the stage. I sometimes have the impression that the Minister of Finance has not even heard what he is missing from this request for contributions from the economy. The absence of the right level of contribution for night workers in the economy, which is now being decided quickly before Christmas, is, in fact, about 130 million schilling this year and is expected to be more than 160 million schilling in 2001. How well do we have to be able to give up such contributions? That is what I would like to ask those speakers from the government parties who, in my view, will defend this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! But I think I already know what is thought in the brains of some members of the government: If one reduces accident pensions by tax and prescribes fines for ambulance visits, one can easily finance and distribute gifts to the economy. Once again it becomes clear: Workers are told that the savings packages are fair and necessary, but the economy is pushed in through the back door instead of savings packages with hundreds of millions of content. This is not a decent policy, ladies and gentlemen. That's redistribution from bottom to top. On the other hand, we are acting with social democrats! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gaugg! Mr Dolinschek! Mr Tancsits! Mr. Feurstein! Why these gifts to the companies? Why not have a serious discussion with the social partners on how to reconcile the burden on businesses that are indisputable with the burden on workers and perhaps find solutions of which workers also have something, especially the night workers, who are exposed to heat, cold, pollutants, health impairment and much more? No willingness to discuss your part! No suggestions! Nothing! That's where you're wondering: Where are the alleged workers' representatives in the government, in the government parties? Where did they stay? Why did they sleep here? Why do you watch when the economy gets hundreds of millions of gifts and the workers once again – but it's just that – go out empty, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e15995	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Maderthaner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16017	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Riepl, these are not gifts to entrepreneurs, but it is simply necessary to further strengthen the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. And the best employee policy is still a strong economy. You should finally get that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we were to increase contributions, this would have an adverse effect on the cost of wages, and you know very well that we are not one of the best in this area. I have one thing to say clearly and clearly: that the economy that has to compete in global competition must be competitive and that, on the other hand, we – and this is also positive – make a good social policy, that we have many social measures in Austria, which are not elsewhere, but that there must be limits somewhere. And that's part of it too. We have to do everything we can to ensure that in the future the economy, which is constantly facing the competitive wind, is also competitive, so that it can be seen on the world market and is not burdened by unnecessary expenses. It is true that we have created a law in which night heavy work has been given a proper attention, and of course we are expected to increase the contributions today, but then there are burdens on the economy. However, if we ensure that, as we have done in recent years, it will continue to run in the future, i.e. we maintain the contributions we have made, so to speak, that the measures we adopted in 1997, 1998 and 1999 in principle, by removing the legislator from a contribution increase, without limiting the benefits for night-time workers, if we continue to maintain this policy in the future, then – I am convinced – the economy will have the strength to succeed in international competition. And this is employee policy, as we understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16065	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16086	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I thought there was a consensus in this house – probably not in this house, but in society – that night work is stressful, that it is ruining people. But we're also doing night work, and maybe that's less true. In all cases, there is sufficient scientific knowledge on how: Night work is harmful to health. Therefore, the establishment and the measures for night shift heavy work were useful. It is not only about absorbing health damage through better access to Kuren et cetera – that would be too little – but also about not allowing night work beyond the necessary extent. There, I think, we probably have different points of view. So far, consensus has been in politics, but the non-increasing contribution is an indication that this federal government no longer considers it necessary for barriers to be built up here in the interests of health, in the interests of the people who only benefit for a certain period of time with it and who want to do night work. There is also the will, but I do not want to talk about it, because it often turns out that, even if someone wants to do night work and does it for a long time, he eventually pays for it with his health accordingly expensive. If this contribution, which is not increased for the first time but has not been increased since 1997, this non-increasing contribution to the fact that night work no longer has barriers. And I think that's wrong! I think this is very wrong, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will not agree to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Secondly, The measures you are planning in the field of seasonal work and holiday arrangements are seamlessly including, Mr Feurstein, I am unfortunately not listening to you, in the overall package with this regulatory authority of the Federal Minister. We already deposited at the time, Minister of State: Even if you do not want to make use of it, we do not think anything related to these regulations is a completely wrong trend and therefore we do not agree with it either.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16135	The next address is Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16156	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Both Mr Riepl and Mr Oellinger have criticised the fact that this regulation continues to exist in the Unemployment Insurance Act, although the social partners have concluded an additional collective agreement on seasonal extension. I can tell you that for weeks I have invited the social partners' negotiators in vain and asked them to conclude a binding agreement on the extension of the season. That was not the case over weeks. It is only now that there is such an agreement, but at the same time it does not say anything about a subject which I think is essential, namely the subject of evaluation. Are the desired savings of 600 million schilling per anno achieved, yes or no? This additional collective agreement does not mean anything to this effect. But I do not want to say here, too, in the sense of the resolution of the House, which has already been adopted, that, if it turns out that the seasonal extension is envisaged, I will by no means avail myself of this regulation empowerment. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Riepl! Something strange seems to me to be your internal conflict. On the one hand, you call for the social partners to be heard, but on the other hand, you criticize that we are doing exactly what the social partners have called for of us, with respect for what has been agreed, because the amendment of the holiday law empowering the social partners to conclude the collective agreements was and is agreed with the social partners. That is not a question of whether this was discussed in the Committee or not. This is agreed with the social partners. Finally, it is also in the range of quotas for seasonal eggs so that you criticize that these quotas will be increased. I have been embarrassingly specific to the proposals made by the AMS Landeswirtschaftsstelles, which say that about 6,000 such seasonal kidneys are to be approved for the winter season. And you, honourable Members, know that there is no AMS position on such an important question that would not have been correlated at the social partners level. So you criticise me, although I am embarrassingly sensitive to the proposals made by the social partners in the countries, but in the next sentence, you will say that this government did not comply with the social partners' decisions. That is contradictory. That is what I already ask you, honourable Member: How do you deal with the social partners? I strongly support unanimous recommendations made by the social partners. I have proved this in the context of these two points. – I thank you for granting the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16199	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16220	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl, in principle, the Federal Minister said exactly what I thought in your speech. They complain of a quick solution. You probably went too fast, because in the time when the SPÖ has held government responsibility, nothing has actually been done here. They were simply sumptuous on the issue of seasonal extension among tourism workers. To the jobs: The quotas that exist in Austria today for foreign workers have decided in the previous legislative period. That's easy. I am proud that this Federal Government has managed in such a short time to make significant improvements for service providers and employees. I am also glad that it does not result in a blockage of unemployment benefit, as it has been debated. This has been done quickly, and I am glad that this blockage does not come with unemployment benefit. It is quite simply a difference whether someone who quits himself, who has a temporary employment contract, or who has an agreed solution to the service relationship, then, because he is busy in tourism during the season, would not receive this unemployment benefit twice a year for four weeks. The replacement times for the pension would not then be available. There is simply a difference between the employees working in the tourism sector, between those who are in a family relationship with the company and those who are not. One can judge, one is terminated and can refer to unemployment benefit from the first day, and the other can't. We have removed this inequality, and I am proud that this solution has come. – This was also done in cooperation with the social partners. The social partners were required here. They have seen if they do not agree, then the government makes the arrangement with the third solution of overtime during the season, which are then used as a time balance afterwards, and with half the aliquota holiday claim itself. This contributes to the extension of the season and is counted. I'm actually quite glad that this was the case. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that this supplementary collective contract for seasonal employment did not come into effect until November/December was also a sign that the social partners were sparse and did not adopt it in due time, because this German government acted so quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a step in the right direction. It's good that we acted like this. It is the first step that will lead to the elimination of this disparity in unemployment insurance for seasonal workers, that there will be only 1.4 billion schilling of revenue, but 3.7 billion schilling of expenditure. It is a first step in the direction of extending the season and that workers are in employment for a longer period of time and are reaching more retirement contributions.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16269	The next speaker is Mr Sevignani. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16290	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a touristist, I am pleased that the change to the holiday law is now a good solution for our tourism companies and their employees and that this is a season extension. A package was chained that makes the work more attractive during the tourist season. This enables us to implement market-oriented and contemporary offers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We all know that the capital strength in tourism is not exactly good. The annual burden on farms – except in the cities – is only 27 percent in Austria. I would like to say to Mr Riepl: Tourism is limited to only a few weeks a year. The labour market of local skilled workers is exhausted. You don't get any professionals. I am glad that it allows the new government to leave seasonal workers in the country, and it is as much as possible that hotels can stay open and work can be done. Thank you very much the new government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Rising sales despite declining numbers of nights show us that we are on the right track towards quality tourism. But it is important that we keep the employees who represent the regular staff in our businesses. They are the core of our tourist quality and the standard. Austria's tourism professionals, who are either highly trained in the dual system or who are graduates of our excellent middle and higher tourism schools, are in use worldwide and are appreciated for their good training. Nevertheless, there is a very high drop-out rate especially among the hospitality employees. An essential reason for so many specialists in the hospitality sector to change to other jobs is the problem of the shorter and shorter seasons. And that's where it's headed. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this season extension model will, in addition to a strong impetus for our tourism industry, also contribute much to a new employee commitment to the company. That is why I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this proposal from the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16348	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 411 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GOG on the implementation of the request concerning the review of the use of the representative expenses of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky from 1990 until his retirement from that office with regard to their economy, economy and effectiveness (342)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16397	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first speaker was Mr Leikam. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16423	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has dealt with the request just mentioned by the President at several meetings, and there is a report from the Court of Auditors. [[Unrest in the hall]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] It should be noted in this report that the content of the content over long distances is obviously not in line with what was discussed in this committee. It's clear once in a while. At all events, the audit mandate and the then constituted subcommittee were characterised by numerous peculiarities. Firstly, the introduction of business regulations was already illegal, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition. In the case of such an audit order, it is only permitted under our Rules of Procedure to actually examine a particular process, but not, as you would like, to deal with two subjects in the subcommittee. That was not a business order. Secondly, The title of the request did not agree with the reasoning at all. Thirdly, The content of the request did not correspond to the title or the justification. Their way of doing in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, then – which was the logical consequence – also led to a very serious legal uncertainty among the members of the Subcommittee. It had to be asked not only once, but several times the Parliament's management for an interpretation of various requests and requests, and it has always provided the relevant documents. Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, you did not want to undergo an examination of the representative expenses of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky, but you simply and simply wanted to adapt and not clarify.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16494	May I ask for a little more attention? – This concerns, above all, discussions at the Intergovernmental Bank, Mrs. Bauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16529	Ladies and gentlemen! You had nothing to say about the actual and only audit assignment, namely the economy, the efficiency and the effectiveness of the German Chancellor's representation expenses. Ladies and gentlemen! You also had to recognize in the discussions that the representation expenses did not affect the Federal Chancellor alone, but the entire Federal Chancellery with all its subordinated and integrated departments. I emphasize: not the Federal Chancellor alone! Ladies and gentlemen! They have very quickly recognised in the Committee that the excesses that actually took place did not require a budget breach law, but that the excesses were again saved in other approaches. And you also had to realize that in various areas, in individual positions of these representation fees, there has been support. The budget has often not even been used! They also had to realize that it is hardly possible to predict precisely and clearly how much effort will be needed in the preliminary stages of budget creation, because not even all state visits are yet to be established at this time. All of this you have seen in this committee relatively quickly. In particular, I can remind the ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party that all the approaches to the Federal Finance Act, which had the representation tasks of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Chancellor's office, have always been decided with your votes! There was not a single time of your side criticism of this federal financial law. But your objective – I say it again – was immediately clear to us in this committee: They wanted to adapt the former Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky, who has truly engaged our Republic, our country throughout the time of his Chancellorship and has been extremely successful both inside and outside, through this subcommittee. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Perhaps involved... by the German bank!]] In the end, however, you did not succeed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A very special role in this committee, which has played a really unchallenged role, has been played by Mr Drinkl in these deliberations. It was he who almost played in the kind of Nick Knatterton at once the great criminalist. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You weren't in the committee at all! You're talking about the color like the blind!]] They were also not with the chancellor's travels and still said he had used them. You weren't there either! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: I've already been to the committee!]] They weren't there on the travels and are constantly talking about the chancellor's travels. Were you there? - No, but you're talking about it, too. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Thank God not!]] The Nick Knatterton of the Austrian People's Party wanted to demonstrate its criminalist abilities and weeded around at morning with a list. She's still very warm, he meant. This list of 144 flights by the former Chancellor, who is said to have paid all the West German Landesbank, had been played to him. [[Abg. Gaugg: Who told you that?]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Who told you that?]] [[Further calls by Rosemarie Bauer and Dr Puttinger.]] Member of the Commission. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I It didn't take long, so your list melted. It was no longer warm, it has become ice-cold, because even your own group had to explain that this list is not usable at all, that it can in no way be used as evidence. With this, your criminalist skills have resolved; You've remained what you are: Members of Parliament, and were no longer the Nick Knatterton of the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God, he lives in the last century!]] One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: This report from the Committee, which is a report by the majority of governments, also mentions the fact that the tax payer's money in the representation effort is really economical. – I can fully emphasize that, ladies and gentlemen. That's the way it is, just: Your accusations... – Sit down! [[Abg. Young: (besides the front bank series) The chancellor has paid the bodyguard! You know that, that's proven!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Their accusations that the chancellor has made these overdrafts go to emptiness. And our request for a detailed examination of these transfers was rejected by you. They really didn't want to check them out, that wasn't your goal at all! They rejected the SPÖ application for detailed examination by the Court of Auditors. Because you didn't really want to check, but you just wanted to change. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: In this letter and in this report – and I am asking the speakers of the government parties to make a clear statement on this – it is noted that some of the documents requested by the German authorities concerned have only been received. That is what this report says. – But during the whole duration of the discussions, at all committee meetings, ladies and gentlemen, this has never been an issue at all! Neither the Minister of Justice nor his officials have mentioned this in any way in the Committee. [[Abg. Kiermaier: No wonder!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party and the Austrian People's Party! I therefore ask you: How do you have the information you then wrote in this report? – It is interesting in times like those in which you have to read and hear about illegal access to data almost every day, after all, that obviously also in this area representatives of the Austrian People’s Party and the Freedom Party have received information that is not available to the opposition party representatives. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We ask you to be informed about this. Neither the Minister of Justice nor an official in his place of business has used these sentences at any committee meeting. You have gone into this, you have written it in, probably because you have a different knowledge than our group. So the suspicion that illegal data has been recovered is very, very close, ladies and gentlemen. And because you were so excited about the flights of the Federal Chancellor other than Franz Vranitzky, I would like to suggest: Perhaps you can explain here, Mr Drinkl, or your subsequent speakers, how it was with your Foreign Minister, who made a European trip with the Industrial Union, or what it looks like in the flights of Mr President-in-Office of Carinthia, who had traveled to Libya several times to Mr Gaddafi. To date, it has not been explained who actually paid for these flights. Or explain his many helicopter flights across the country! No one knows who pays all this, ladies and gentlemen. You now have the opportunity to play the reconnaissance here at the speaker's desk. Tell us who comes up for these costs! We would be very grateful for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16752	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drink. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16773	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Leikam, on 26 March. In fact, on January of this year, a corresponding number of Members of this House have requested a review of the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. The fact is, however, that the text of the request so strongly criticised by you today has been amended accordingly with knowledge and with massive support from the President. And I admit that this change has not facilitated the work of the Committee. I admit that. However, we wanted to understand the concern accordingly, and we wanted to clarify it. We wanted to give Mr. Vrannitzky the opportunity to clarify misunderstandings and allegations that have always been loud in the public. Not the SPÖ! You cannot know, Mr Leikam, because you were not there. I repeat: Not the SPÖ. You wanted to hide from the SPÖ, you wanted to wall up, and you got the committee in hours of Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brix: fairytale narrator Drinkl!]] Because you have something to hide, Mr Brix, that's why you did it! We wanted to make it clear. I have to say, Mr Kogler, I am surprised that you, at least in the Green minority report, only referred to the Rules of Procedure and did not take into account the meaning, the background of this committee and these discussions accordingly. I fear... – That's the foreplay for Burgenland and Vienna! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You don't want to beat the coalition partner!]] Everything's clear then! [[Abg. Leikam: Tell me something about the foreign minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the fact is – beware, Mr Leikam, I would like to explain to you – that travel expenses are representation expenses, and if travel is carried out in the interest of the Republic, they have to appear in the representation expenses. If that is not the case, then the case is worrying. [[Abg. Leikam: Tell me something about the foreign minister!]] This is the case, Mr Leikam, and I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Leikam: The foreign minister will have a joy!]] If the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria is suspected of the fact that the gift is accepted, then the unfortunately God throws a sharp light on our country. I agree with you: They have left the finances of this Republic in a pitiful state. But this country is not so poor that we must be sponsored by a German bank! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! That's it!]] And I ask very consciously: What was the interest of the West German Landesbank in paying for these flights? There is simply a shaky look when you know that the same West German Landesbank, with or without help Dr. Vrannitzkys, who acquired shares in Bank Austria. There is a sharp light when you know that this Westdeutsche Landesbank has acquired purchasing rights for the Bank Austria's stock package. And there is a shaky light when the same Dr. Vranckky becomes a consul of this bank six months after his retirement as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] That's a shaky light. Take Please note that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They are trying to pay tribute to the outcome of the committee. But they overlook one thing: This committee has shown that Dr. Vranitzky has actually completed a considerable number of flights. ==References== He said: Well, I flew twice, up to twice. – In the Committee, he explained in a sample-like survey that he had flown eleven times. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Six times as much!]] And he said something else. He mentioned: A certain flight with Lufthansa, I don't know exactly the number right now. – He could say the number! And I can tell you where I had the list. I had the same list, which Dr. Vranitzky had to prepare for the committee, exactly the same list. She was in the "Kurier", in "NEWS" and in other newspapers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This story is so simple. I'm just afraid of one thing: You keep up with Reinhard Mey: "Freedom must be boundless over the clouds." You think everything's allowed, so you can forget everything. – Take note of the following: They are not in a smeary disco, but the Federal Chancellor acts in front of the public's eyes, is in the spotlight of the public! And it cannot be useful if the Federal Chancellor of this Republic is accused of accepting the gift, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The magazine "FORMAT" once entitled: "If you fly, you don't believe him." And what about someone who flies 11 times? – One believes much less, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I would like to tell you a little story. [[Oje- und No-Rufe at SPÖ.]] When my younger son stood in front of his mother with a dirty pants, he always tried to calm her down, and he said: Mom, that's not dirt, it's dirty because he tried to clean up the dirt quickly. . I mean, there are clear "pollutant shadows" that have appeared in this committee on the West of Dr. Vranitzky's. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there are only shadows where there is light, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e16989	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17029	Mr President. My excited gentlemen of the opposition – I mean, from the government – or the future opposition, if you already believe that we are in the red-green government! - Yes, Freud has helped me. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] That's right. But you're on me with your hectic prank. On the matter. One can agree to many of what Mr Drinkl said. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You can agree!]] – No, not all, but much. The question that we have to answer at the end is only – although I may devote a few minutes to this topic –: What has this Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions had to do with these findings, which have been reported here? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He brought the truth!]] That'll be too clear. I am therefore at least meeting myself at a formal level with Mr Leikam; not content, because the real questions raised were indeed serious. The question of the Consul Treaty has already been raised. In fact, it is not a small thing if the Federal Chancellor gets a good deal with this bank a few months after he leaves the government. That's how I see it. At least that is not a question of questioning, at least to light up. The other connection could not be clarified, namely whether a certain advantage for the WestLB has emerged, such as when buying from or pre-purchasing on bank-austria shares. This may have been the case, but could not be clarified in this subcommittee. But if that is the case, then of course this is not favourable, nor is it favourable for the Republic. That's right. [[Abg. Swimming: Very weak formulation!]] However, the Subcommittee has not been able to promote this. So much importance must be placed on the fact that something is not reported, what has not happened there. As chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I attach certain importance to this. But the questions that have actually been raised would have deserved much more urgent and intensive advice. That's right. Mr Drinkl spoke earlier on to Mr Fischer. He, Fischer, would have changed the test order so to speak. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He helped in formulating!]] – So this is already a massive accusation! President Fischer, too, does not need my protection, but you know the Rules of Procedure. As far as the inspection order is concerned, an item must be formulated and you have formulated several. One could also say that you did this so unskillably that the object has been divided into several points. The fact that Mr. Hoof – now Prime Minister – has made out exactly those passages that would have been really interesting – you can't "hang" them now. We have always fought in the Committee for the right questions to be asked. Who was it who "turned off" these questions? . The applicant's head, who was the chairman of this subcommittee, had to comply with the Rules of Procedure. What else is he supposed to do? And now you come here and wake up with test results that were not distillable there. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Eleven flights have been confirmed! That's 2.5 million!]] – Yes, eleven flights have admitted Mr. Ex-Kanzler Vranitzky. That's one. But that is why we have not been able to find out how this is all related to the questions I have referred to as relevant. That's the point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So honest you have to stay, and unfortunately you have left this path, Mr. Drinkl. We have made several calls to change this test requirement. That would have been very easy. We would have adopted a report, a joint, short report, and would have delivered it to the Court of Auditors Committee. We could have written a new test request immediately and with our support – even the SPÖ would have gone along – which would have allowed exactly the hard questions. Who refused? – ÖVP and FPÖ, so that you really feel that you didn’t really want to investigate what was going on because you were afraid that you wouldn’t come along with the results of the parallel German investigation committee. That was a legitimate fear, because it was terrifying how diletantic you did in the investigations, especially my gentlemen from the "F"! Mr Gaugg will present this again quite differently, but that was really terrifying for a former opposition party! That was terrifying! Mr Gaugg has constantly asked the right questions, and Mr Chief as Chairman had to correct and wipe him away. A ridiculous spectacle was what you delivered. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All of this has hardened the impression that you have not even been involved in this examination, although my colleague Drinkl is now waving around with some results. [[Abg. Steibl: "Wack" the drink does not!]] It was primarily for you to block this committee instrument, otherwise you would have intensified the audit order. That's the point! This is at all the real problem in this National Council that now the majority chooses what is to be examined and what is not to be done to deposit sluggish test requests and then go out here, waving around with great insights that have not been found there at all. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] You can't let that go! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's really a style I wouldn't have expected from the ÖVP here. I was not used to anything else from the FPÖ, but that the ÖVP did not... [[Abg. Gaugg: What?]] Mr Gaugg! You will give an opinion on this. The fact that the EDP has not been able to carry out a real test was disappointing, but one of the first proofs that you really wanted to resign as a control party and have also resigned, and this is sustainable. You'll certainly claim the opposite, but that won't help you either. Please, Mr Gaugg: Speak and answer! (Applause from the Greens) - Abg. Dr. Martin Graf You talked into a real vortex!)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17192	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17213	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leikam, in today's speech on the question of Vranitzky's frequent flyers, has not given rise to fame. I am convinced that Otmar Brix, who was a member of the Subcommittee, would have been much better placed here. [[Abg. Leikam: Come on! That was so wanted, we wanted to increase the effect!]] The fact is, Mr. Altkanzler admittedly admitted that he consumed eleven free flights. First of all, this is worrying enough because it is a forbidden gift acceptance. If one still takes the justification of Mr. Altkanzler Vrannitzky, who meant that he was invited to fly back and forth by the chairman of the WestLB's board of directors, then this suspicion hardens. Interestingly, it was always the meeting of the old international socialists, for example at the Karlspreis in Aachen, or whatever it was. I mean, it is already important and necessary that a German Chancellor also represents Austria abroad. But it will be worrying if there are consul contracts and other connections by a single company, namely the WestLB, and if it is always this one that invites him. - So much for free flights. These eleven free flights are also the subject of pre-surveillance investigations, and we will see what will ultimately be said by the public prosecutor. I have not yet heard any SPÖler who might have meant that the Minister of Justice should actually become active and ask what would be done with a preliminary investigation – or whether one wants to find nothing and the whole thing is sloppy. But Mr Leikam is right if he believes that the objective of setting up the subcommittee was to examine the effectiveness, economy and efficiency of the representative expenses of the Federal Chancellor. And in this respect, I have to say, he beats all the other records! There are, for example, the representation expenses of the year 1990. There has been an annual estimate of 3.2 million schilling, and Mr Chancellor has consumed 8.9 million schilling. – That means by 277 percent next to it! In doing so, he is even more "greater" than former Minister Edlinger, who was always in addition to his budget. But to use this almost triple, that's very worrying! Another example: For 1993 there were 8.4 million schilling in the proposal. You know, you're gonna need something more. Finally, the expenditure was 22.9 million schilling, so much was consumed. – Again the triple, colleague Leikam! That's indecent! First you preliminate a low amount, and then you pop 23 million schilling, although you are constantly invited on free flights! But in the course of the surveys we have carried out, a few expenses are highly interesting. In particular, it becomes clear that the Federal Chancellery has practically been regarded as a branch of the Löwelstraße, the SPÖ-centrale. That was a pure self-service store. And the SPÖ never finds anything improper about it. That's pure gift acceptance! But now to the expenditure. Why did they explode? This question would actually have to wake a social democrat. There was, for example, a visit by Mr Modernov from the former GDR, who had not been invited by anyone. He spent his lunch with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, as it was, at the Bristol Hotel in Vienna, not so bad at the price of 18 000 S. Gar! [[Abg. Leikam: There you always have your meetings!]] But it's getting more exciting. It was also the king of Malaysia in Vienna. The King of Malaysia has visited Vienna. He was presented a lunch at the price of 171 000 S. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did he eat?]] At around 171 000 s, the king of Malaysia fed with the Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He will have been hungry like that!]] But it's gonna be even better! Shortly thereafter, a Romanian delegation arrived. They were fed in the canteen around 3 030 s. There's one thing I need to tell you: There would certainly have been no such thing under caster, because he would have managed his eastern block friends better. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] There's no such thing as that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why I can only say: The former size of the SPÖ is due to quoting Kreisky, who meant many years ago: Never make a bank director the partyobmann!,... [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And that's the result! With the king around 171 000 S and with the Romanian delegation by 3,000 S. I would like to stress once again that this would never be imaginable under Gusenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17319	The next speaker is Mr Brix. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17347	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's kind of funny when you listen to Members' drink. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That wasn't funny!]] It's really funny to listen to the stories about comic figures and perhaps even present new comic figures, which I think is actually exciting and funny. I'm stuck, ladies and gentlemen in this house: Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vrannitzky was the Austrian statesman who has led Austria to the highest reputations in Europe and in the world over the past 14 years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: God will! God will!]] I wanted to keep that clear; others first have to see that they represent our country in this way too. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Secondly, I am very grateful to colleagues Gaugg that he mentioned that Franz Vranitzky is the holder of the Karlspreis because it is one of the highest awards. I'm waiting for the next Austrian to be awarded this Karls Prize. None of this government, I'm sure I'm convinced of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 17 percent he lost, the Vrnitzky!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Leikam and Mr Schwemlein.]] Thirdly, If Parliamentary drinker appears here as a fairy taler, then I have already experienced this from him in a smaller circle, namely when he presented us with a so-called warm list. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl:...! He wasn't there at all!]] He said she was still very warm. She was played anonymous to him. You have no origin at all, no designation of authorship at all. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But she was right!]] I was able to read this at 6 a.m. in the "Kurier", but MP Drinkl said: I brought her. – To this day, he hasn't told us where he had the list. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: "Kurier"!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If Member of the Commission cannot tell us where he has it, then I can only assume that he has probably drawn it himself and made it available to us now, because that is how she has looked, that is, anything other than professional. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Ha! Ha! Ha!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Furthermore, it is true – Mr Gaugg is at another meeting – that high representation expenses have been incurred. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Only Mr. Vranckky knew her!]] That's clear. But first of all, this has never exceeded the budget, and second, the Federal Chancellery has representation fees for government revenue. These include not only the Federal Chancellery, but also the Deputy Chancellor – quite logically – and quite logically with them also the Minister of Foreign Affairs and also the Minister of Women. Moreover, this budget has never been overburdened. You have always agreed to this at the time of the invoice. I don't know a bill where someone got up and said, That is not true, the representation expenditure of the Federal Chancellor's Office is repugnant, is not correct. Fourthly, perhaps this has a bit annoyed my colleague Drinkl in the editions, that each time a post was in place that a celebration must be organised for the Austrofascist Dollfuß. [[Call the ÖVP:Please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's huge!]] - Please, that's not my fault, Mr. Khol, that's what we read in the representation expenditure. People have to be interested in it. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's the only explanation?]] I am convinced – I bet everything I have – that a Social Democratic and a Greenman are not interested in the fact that a candle is lit for dolphins. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Especially bad conscience!]] I'm convinced of that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are more likely to say that pictures of dolphins belong to the walls that have not lost anything in a modern democratic republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that Franz Vranitzky also entered the so-called ominous drink list, but he was not asked any further. Mr Kogler has already said that the Chairman of the Committee said at the time: The questions have ended, and the session has cancelled. He would have liked to mention them again. But if you are already looking at the flights of Franz Vranitzky, which he made for our country in the sense of the Austrian Republic, for us to be able to join the EU that there has been a faster accession... – Rain [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He's been fighting against it for a long time!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Stop!]] Don't get up! Then I ask you something else From the reply of a request I allowed myself to ask the foreign minister when she was fine on the road in Madrid, London, in Paris, where she once told the colleague Schieder that was a private trip, then it was not a private trip, then it was a trip on behalf of the Republic... [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Austria is a rich country! We can pay the flights ourselves!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Because it was unfortunately necessary!]] [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: The Vranitzky his were on duty!]] – Thank you, Mrs. Ferrero-Waldner, too, says it was a mission trip, Mr. Drinkl! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why does it pay a German bank?]] She too had invitations and was paid by agencies. She even confirms that. Tell me how it is today and don't throw a stone on a man who can no longer prove it, but has done a lot for Austria! These are the facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we talk about the costs: I am every single schilling that Austria could save by having nothing to pay for the flight trips, ten times more than any wasteful schilling of those 65 million schilling, which this government spends for advertising to present to the Austrians an X for a U to sell their bad program and to draw the money out of the bag to the Austrians. [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Dr. Drinkl: This is immense!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where we have 65 million, but throw them out of the window! In any case, we are glad that Vranckky has succeeded in joining the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17677	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17712	Mr President. High house! Whether the report is now a minority report, a majority report or whatever, for those who were in it, it has become clear that a little light has come into the SPÖ's spider net, in which Austria hangs with the red cross spider. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] This has come true, ladies and gentlemen. And you can now bring arguments as many as you want, you can start distraction maneuvers as many as you want: You can't just pull yourself out of the loop here. The fact is, Mr. Vrannitzky has flown. The fact is, the WestLB sponsored the flights. And, Mr Brix, I can't imagine that – if you tell a "small" worker you're supposed to represent – that this would have to do with EU accession that WestLB pays Mr. Vrannitzky flights from Vienna to Düsseldorf by 200 000 S, only so that Austria can join the EU – is logical for this worker. I'm actually missing the logic of your argumentation here. You have to explain this to a "small" Austrian, but I don't know if he's coming. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that Mr Vrannitzky initially admitted two flights via media. I've had some understanding. He said he had to visit his wife who was sick. That is why I have put up some understanding. But when this list came up and Mr. Vrannitzky, when he was confronted with this list, admitted 13 more flights, we have already thought a little more. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In the "Kurier"!]] Mr. Brix! The fact that Mr. Drinkl has been praised by you and has been put up as a list maker may be honouring him, but you are doing too much honor to him. You also assigned him omniscience here. [[Abg. Swimming: That was a mistake!]] He is certainly not well-known, because if he had created the list himself, he could not have known that Vranitzky had admitted at least 13 flights from that list. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Thus, Mr. Drinkl cannot have created this list himself, but must have certain truth contents. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as moral responsibility is concerned, Germany's Prime Minister Lothar Späth has resigned for two flights he has received from WestLB. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: He has already resigned!]] - He resigned, yes. Another one, Mr Brix: If you say that the Vranitzky flights were in the sense of Austria and contributed to EU accession, the flights probably contributed even more. ==References== November was to read that Mr. Vrannitzky actually prevented VA-Tech from buying Preussag AG. The purchase contract was already signed. The VA-Tech had already signed the purchase contract to get this German steel plant. But in the office of Mr. Neuber, the chairman of the WestLB's board of directors – and Vrannitzky's adviser to the WestLB – this purchase contract was reversed. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Look!]] Very sorry for VA-Tech, and I say: for the damage of Austria! If these are your good connections, which you reason that Mr. Vrannitzky has done a lot for Austria, I wonder if the withdrawal of this purchase contract was good or useful for the Austrian industry. We need to ask ourselves: What has Mr Vrannitzky done that for? Did he do it for the red spider net or for himself? – These questions are open and require an answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17810	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e17894	What do you know when you look at me? [[Abg. Haigermoser: He doesn't like soy germs! I know!]] Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because you look good!]] I'm glad I fold you out that I look good; obviously I don't fit into the "red spider net". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What would interest me in the previous remarks is the following: Mr Drinkl, in an interlocutory call to the question: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A good man!]] Where did this list really come from?, meaning, "Kurier". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Kurier"!]] And this "warm list", as you called it, that almost still "warm list", you gave us. I would like to ask myself, Mr Drinkl: Why read it when it's a fax, for example, not "curer"? Or if it's a letter from the "Kurier": Then why can't you take the word "Kurier" from the list? [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Vranckky didn't say where he had her!]] – They couldn’t explain this to us; I think that’s strange. Vrannitzky explained very clearly, and there it was mouse silence. As Mr Gaugg has now produced himself here and has given individual titles from the representation expenses, I also wonder: Why didn't you ask that in the committee? – We would have been on the Committee's subject exactly as follows: Review of the use of representation expenses. I haven't heard a single question about these transfers to the ex-Bundeskanzler. [[Abg. Leikam: Rejected!]] They were totally concerned with this list and the related questions. And Vrannitzky answered all your questions, and he was also thanked by the chairman for giving him so comprehensive an answer. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's the problem today!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is, you're starting on 26. January 2000 was already in the euphoria of taking power and did not know how to quickly prevent minority rights for future opposition. As one has just broken down a title for this subcommittee, and already – therefore we cannot agree to your report – on the first page, write that you want to have the use of representation expenses checked. - First reason. They wanted something completely different; You know: They wanted to review the representation expenses, including the acquisition of the Bank Austria shares by the WestLB. - Second reason. And third reason: in the background of suspicion of gift acceptance. – Well, that has been clarified, and you have resorted to clarifying the representation costs. Then you have always – and this report has already mentioned it on the first page – spoken about Düsseldorf's tax warrants. Yes, please, where has the statement of the Düsseldorf tax commander remained? – The Minister of Justice knew nothing, the judicial authority knew nothing. Only They had these documents. Question: When do we, the members of this subcommittee, once see these statements? Then I have a very clear question to ask you. Today there was a pity, how high the fees are in the Federal Chancellery. This has been the subject for a number of times now. The SPÖ Group has made a very clear request: If this is the case, there are inconsistencies, then the desire to call on the Court of Auditors to have all the representative fees of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky examined by the Court of Auditors until his departure from government. Request from SPÖ – rejected by ÖVP and FPÖ! [[Call the SPÖ: Look here!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What, then, is the theatre about this possible and impossible apprehension of a deserved ex-Bundeskanzler of this Republic? I would think that you missed the subject and that this report deserves an inadequate amount of money.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18039	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18094	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you've just finished discussing, I'd like to talk to you. [[Abg. Gradwelt: But you can do it! Don't let yourself be stopped!]] – Yes, I just wanted to do this, but it seems a little bit of follow-up lessons are needed here. Now my friend Toni Leikam is no longer here – I am quite scared – because I have to say to his address that I am very clearly aware of the fact that he calls people like the Carinthian Hypo-Bank General Director, the wood-industrial Tilly or Mr Rogner in this context: in a debate in which it is about discovering a scandal of the WestLB. That's just not all right. These people paid for their own flight, including Dr. Haider. But I understand, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that there are certain rides. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Who paid for the helicopter flights from the Haider?]] There are reeds, and these reeds, ladies and gentlemen, always have something to do with the people in whose environment you are moving. Reiverworten for the SPÖ will be, I assume: "Consum", Lucona, national debt, bank debt in Burgenland, debt of your party or... [[Abg. Swimmlein: (sitting in a place in the first row) Mr. Colleague! ...!]] Mr Schwamlein! They have now come forward as a backbench to intercede. I'm very happy about that. [[Abg. That's what you're saying to me, sitting in the last row? He's in the last row and he's telling me backbench.]] I told you quite clearly last time. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Let's get back to the subject. – There is a gentleman whose name here is also a special appeal, namely our golf pro, frequent flyers and big donors, as we have heard, Franz Vrannitzky, for whose WestLB scandal is actually a quite exciting connection. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Haider is an incentive!]] I am also partly of the opinion of the Greens, namely that there are still interesting questions to be resolved in this area, but this ex-cancer is not only sitting on the plane, in the private jet of the WestLB, but he is also sitting as a consul in a large leather chair, which is probably also quite well-padded financially. [[Abg. Swimmling: He won't be sitting on the carrying surface!]] And he explains from this leather chair that he almost had to fly with WestLB, so to speak, in order to protect the state finances. Of course, it is particularly pious to history that in the Committee he then gives a protocol on whether other societies are so generous and make representation resources available in this area... – He will answer quite different questions to you, my dear Mr Schwamlein. [[Abg. Faul: That could only be the answer of the sharks!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] In principle, this Mr Vrannitzky seems to have a very close connection with the WestLB. It will be interesting whether a professor of history will perhaps deal with what syndicate agreements exist in this field. And anyone who knows banks – and you seem to know the banks very well, see Burgenland – knows that they only deliver money if they can get it back. [[Abg. Sweamlein: This is the federal country where you won!]] If I read Mr Vrannitzky's statement here, for example: I can say that I could have calculated the largest number of travel costs on the basis of such flights also to the Federal Chancellery, that would have been justified – he says at least – so I actually saved money by balance with these flights of the Republic! Then I have to say: [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] Well, that may be already, he may have saved us the costs of the flights, but he has cost us a lot of other money because these syndicate contracts with Bank Austria, the WestLB and ultimately the banking deal in the CA area would be questioned. [[Abg. Sweamlein: Try this freely! Get rid of the note!]] Unfortunately, it was not possible to discuss these matters clearly because of limitation periods and also because of the Rules of Procedure in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Swim, go to your place!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: What kind of problem do you have?]] Of course, the exact... – Mr President! [[Unrest in the hall.]] Of course, the proposals made by the Federal Chancellery are also particularly interesting. Mr Gaugg has already mentioned that there is still more to be said about this. For example, I noticed a particularly funny episode in the study of these documents: There the Queen of Spain comes to visit with her husband, who costs the state a lunch at the Federal Chancellery to say and write 160,000 p. The king of Norway was then worth a little less, around 40,000 s less. It is also funny that events that should actually have the same value, but experience different calculations. [[Abg. Son of a bitch: He doesn't come to you at all! No one wants you!]] Finally, I would like to say that the SPÖ's concept of democracy is also very interesting, because there are two reports: a report that was approved, and a second report – Mr Schwamlein – listen, then you will understand! – which you wrote. [[Abg. Where does your government want to go? She can't even go to the Hofburg!]] But one thing is: The SPÖ, Mr Schwemmlein, and all of you sitting here have real experience in flying. They are – and this has really saved the taxpayer a lot – from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18371	Mr Leikam has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18407	I correct my previous speaker in two points. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] The Queen of Spain is not a woman but a man. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Secondly, my previous speaker started his discussion with: "Now my friend Toni Leikam is no longer here." – I notice: This is a very one-sided representation. I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18455	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The sound level has become somewhat louder in the last quarter of an hour, so it is certainly very difficult for the speaker to present his opinion. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to This also applies to the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Always this little brother-in-law!]] Please give the speaker the opportunity to present his thoughts! - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18510	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Gaugg: A call for the brother-in-law!]] The SPÖ was somehow blamed by the ÖVP and the Freedom Party, and the SPÖ sent a speaker here to the speaker's desk, namely Mr Toni Leikam, who was not in committee. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Comrade!]] But also with you from the liberals was a speaker, my previous speaker, Mr Scheuch, not in the committee, but we have no problem with that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He wasn't the first speaker!]] We trust to say our opinion that there has been no problem, we have accepted it. Mr Khol! According to these statements of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, this subcommittee should actually be renamed. Due to the usually not easily understood approach of the Freedom Party, but also the Austrian People's Party, it will be very difficult to find a suitable term. Depending on the occasion, it would be called "deviation, deception, populism or demagogy committee". This is only in advance to remind you in all clarity of how this instrument is handled by the government parties. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that the FPÖ investigative committees like the devil take the ordination water if it only somehow seems that one of their members might be affected! That is why, in recent times, all the opposition parties' requests with all possible kittens have been prevented. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – I have, honourable Member, yes. As you have had to feel more and more often in the past few weeks and days, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ: The truth hurts you, and your pain limit is obviously very low – according to the motto: "Give is more blessed than take." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Hallelujah!]] But you have certainly also been beaten, Mr Colleague and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Amen!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who gives? Who's taking?]] But now to the review of the use of the representation expenses of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky, so strongly demanded by you. It is embarrassing that the original request of the Members of Parliament from January 2000 was not only inconclusive, but also unlawful to do business. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Hallelujah!]] The resulting sludge and the reactions of the two government parties allow only one end: You – and we have heard this many times today – have been involved in this examination in order to block a minority right to the opposition while at the same time building a scandalisation policy on rumors. This is how you must admit ÖVP and FPÖ, literally fully into your pants. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Please speak better!]] It is unique in this context – but not for the Behaviour of this black and blue coalition – the following: A review of the costs of representation requested by the Social Democratic members of the Subcommittee for economy, economy and effectiveness by the President of the Court of Auditors was voted down by the government groups. This case again very clearly documents the long-standing memory gaps also of the ÖVP delegates who have approved and decided to adopt these approaches in the federal financial laws by means of federal accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! At this point, it must be pointed out that the Subcommittee has found that the use of the representation expenses of former Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky from 1990 until his retirement from this office was very much in line with the objectives of sparing, economic efficiency and expediency. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Stop, please!]] The fact that you do not like to hear this or want to take note of it is already clear to me on the basis of your own understanding of subcommittees. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You already believe your own propaganda!]] In connection with this investigation, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, I cannot spare you some more than questionable details with which you are exposed. Think of the list of ominous origins of Deputy Drinkl with the alleged flight movements: wrong, wrong, even the name Vranitzky was miswritten. When it became serious for the Vice-President Drinkl and he was supposed to call the author or the authors of this list, he suddenly broke out the big silence. Even representatives of the ÖVP admitted that this was an anonymous list, whose contents had no meaning. However, these reports in the Subcommittee were even more generous: The FPÖ report states that, according to notifications, only part of the relevant German authority's file in Vienna has been received. This results in two assumptions: Either there are members within the government coalition with supersensive powers – also to be referred to as fortune - or the so-called internal channels have struck again, otherwise this information cannot have been played to the delegates of your parties. Neither Mr Böhmdorfer nor other informed representatives of the judicial authorities have passed on such a communication during the deliberations. The list of inconsistencies of this coalition in connection with this subcommittee can be continued for a long time, but now the Austrian God has long since formed his own opinion on the concept of democracy of this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18705	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18739	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! There were some points in the Committee's Standing Subcommittee which remained open and could not be clarified. The reason for this is, on the one hand, the Rules of Procedure of the National Council and, on the other hand, the Subcommittee is no longer available. There have been considerable differences between the documents of the Federal Chancellery, the media reports and the personal statements of persons. In particular, the report focuses on the following: Why were flights made by Dr. Vranitzky in the interest of the Republic not charged with the Republic? Why did Dr. Vrannitzky pay these flights from WestLB? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Because it was a gift!]] Just for reasons of economy? - I don't think so. As an official explanation, this may come about, but if you look behind the scenes, it looks something different. The true reason will be more likely to be found in the fact that Dr. Vrannitzky became a consul of the WestLB, shortly after his departure from the WestLB policy. Or is it because the WestLB is two of the largest shareholders of the Bank Austria? Or is it perhaps because the WestLB has the pre-purchasing right to bank-austria shares, which currently still owns the AVZ? Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Vrannitzky certainly missed the necessary sensitivity in this matter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There would have been absolute restraint here, but the flights were loosely consumed. Personally, I wonder why Dr. Vrnitzky admitted the flights only after the facts were proved to him. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what everyone is doing!]] A proverb says: Whoever doesn't speak the truth, you don't believe him anymore, even if he says the truth. If you are looking for the list that Dr. Vrnitzky himself uses: You may find the causer of this list! Or ask Dr. Vrannitzky – if he is not on a free flight financed by the WestLB! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] I'm really wondering: Has a Dr. Vrannitzky needed to talk about two flights first, so that he would have to admit, in general, 11 flights consumed? It is also clearly stated in the report that representation expenditure in the era of Vranitzky was partly massively and strongly exceeded – or, in other words, was handled carelessly with taxpayers. The budgetary situation was certainly not rosy at the time, and it would have been more economical. However, the SPÖ now has time to think about what careless handling of taxpayers means. On the example of its party finances, the SPÖ sees best how careless handling of resources affects!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18800	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18822	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already annoyed for you Social Democrats that just before Christmas this fine hunting society, which is constantly going on for us liberals, will itself be hunted! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] That's not pleasant, gal? But it's real! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The free flights of the fine Mr. Altkanzler Vrannitzky are at the heart of the investigations of the prosecutor's office. That's how we brought it! Of course, the whole would have looked relatively harmless. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Are you the county hunter now, or who?]] But that's not it, dear comrades: The Procuratorate determines! One could now say: Well, we don't care if the taxpayer of North Rhine-Westphalia – because the WestLB is half owned by the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia – pays Mr. Vranitzky flights in the order of around 2 million Schilling. But you don't make it that easy, because this thing has a hook: The WestLB had strong interests in Austria, and Vrannitzky was German Chancellor at the time. Because I never hear that from you on these justifications! This gift-giver bank became the second largest shareholder at Bank Austria in 1995 and in a very controversial way has also acquired a pre-purchasing right on shares. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] To this day – I quote the "profile" No. ==References== December 1999 – there are rumours in Wiener Bankkreisen, according to which Franz Vranitzky was particularly committed to the WestLB in both cases. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] This is not surprising, for Mr Vrannitzky has had very strong reasons: He obviously had to thank for the 2-million gift – as much as the flights cost. Mr Altkanzler's justifications were very special: They were like the one of a trader who freezed a travel report. First, he says: I was just flying. – By the way, I only quote from the protocols. – Then he says in this way: It seemed helpful to me. – Finally, he says: In general, everything was only helpful. This old chancellor's horrendous second, when he was put on it, lasted ten days – it was already mentioned several times today. First he said in an interview with "NEWS": I only flew twice. – When he was then shown that it was more often, he needed ten days until he said in another interview: Well, it wasn't twice, but nine more flights came. – Yes, does that not make you think that your party president, the old chancellor – there are a number of Members who have already been here in 1990 – is so forgetful? I'm saying he's not forgetful. Mr. Vrannitzky is not forgetful with God, but he has tried for good reason to cover up these flights! When he was transferred to action, he was then in need of argumentation. [[Abg. Gradwell: My God!]] He spoke of perceptions that at the time appeared to him on duty or political terms. – Yes, what were those perceptions? – I tell you, and I quote from the Minutes: He attended a Karlspreis ceremony in Aachen. Vranitzky literally: On this occasion many people meet in Aachen, with which there are also discussion rounds. Another time he flew to Düsseldorf. Reason for the trip: Debates of the WestLB on the current economic situation. – Great: To be picked up in the private jet of Vienna and fly to Düsseldorf to discuss the current economic situation! [[Abg. Schwemlein:... Honorary citizen of Jesolo!]] Another time Mr. Vranitzky flew to Bremen free of charge in the private jet. What did he do there? – Welcome to the mayor. Then, according to Vrannitzky, I visited the industrial club Bremen as well as factories and port facilities, and in the evening I took part in a traditional Roland dinner. [[Abg. Sweamlein: You can at best become an honorary citizen of Jesolo!]] The next day I flew home. The fine Mr. Alt-Bundeskanzler Vrannitzky is flying free of charge with the private jet to make the great social democrats at private receptions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] Another time he took part in a traditional dinner of the Karls laureates and was of course flown back free of charge with the private jet. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Oberhaidinger and Mr Leikam]] So the list of cases in which the fine Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, a. D. around 30,000 S, was supposed to be on the way to the hour of flight in service or political perception in Europe – you do not like to hear that, and if you are in distress, then you will always be quite loud, will you? - continue at any time. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The WestLB, for which he has so thrown himself into the stuff here, has then become the second largest shareholder of the Bank Austria and has become in very controversial ways and Of course, the pre-purchasing rights are also guaranteed. Ladies and gentlemen, Social Democrats! Mr Leikam – You were here at the time – did you know that your old chancellor was flying around when you were sitting down here in 1990? [[Abg. Leikam: Always! Always!]] And you don't care about that until today? - I'm surprised! [[Abg. Leikam: I knew everything!]] Hopefully a light will open up to you now, and hopefully now you will recognize what your old Chancellor, the fine Mr. Chairman of the Workers' Party, did at that time, because now the prosecutor's office is finding out against him! [[Complaints with the liberals]] With us liberals, you make a giant circus here in Parliament in the face of incessant accusations, but your own old chancellor must be in front of the prosecutor's office! That's the reality!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e18995	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19016	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to deal so much with the food sequence, although Christmas is at the door and one could say freely after Qualtinger: [[Abg. Brix: But with ties!]] "The Gansl has still been there", and although I could contribute to this as a former food dealer. Whether pig roasts, whether lobster, or sushi, or liver cheese – that's not the question of all questions, Mr Brix! [[Abg. Brix: But in Linzer Straße the food was not so good!]] The question is not how often Mr Vranitzky has flown freely, but why he has flown there! That's the question, and there's going to be a lot to ask, because I don't think he flew to the tasting of Düsseldorf's "Löwensenf", and certainly he didn't visit the annual lingerie fair there – according to the motto: You beautiful playboy, would you have stayed in Düsseldorf? - I don't suppose so. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's already sounded like this: Two free flights – Späth therefore had to resign. Vrannitzky can no longer resign, but he has left this country a sniper pile. – This may be very interesting as a supplement. Ladies and gentlemen! Even today in this debate, your double morale – as a collective term for your speech messages – has become manifest once again. To get back to this Romanian canteen dinner very briefly: The food sequence is unknown to me. I assume that it will probably have been grenadier march from the Gulaschkanone – otherwise it could not have been. I don't want to judge this any further, but maybe you can create a bow from the frequent flyer Vranckky to the far-fly climate. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischig: Should this be funny now, huh?]] That may also be very interesting! Now that Advent – the quietest time of the year – is at hand and Christmas is at the door, I can join this Christmas atmosphere and read it out of a letter printed today as a gloss in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten'. Heading: "Don't cry for me in Argentina" – a Christmas letter written by Gusenbauer. - Advent, Advent, a light little one is burning! "Dear Mr. Old German chancellor, vikerl! Friendship and friendship. Christmas (although I reject Christmas as a clerical consumer manifestation.) It's been a long time. I am writing because I have looked for you and your wife in news, along with your Argentine luxury villa (Sekanina and Androsch confirm that it is a luxury villa). [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP.]] I quote: "So much for you. To be honest, I don't have anything to do with Christmas holidays. And I'm sorry I said you're going to pension to breed in the Pampa (VW) beetle at the time – was a joke. ... Haider will talk again about Gruselbauer's Gruselkabinett. And now everyone is still messing with BSE with the BSE." [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] "It's hard, clear, I've learned nothing but politics, but since I'm ten, Ma government, opposition has never been the talk. As a Christian tree, do you have a palm or a fragrance-Christ tree from an old VW this year? We now taste for public reasons. Security instead of a fir only the Bux tree that you left us, although FPÖ has really gnawed him." [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now we come back to Romania so that I can stay on the agenda: "Hoffnung makes us the Ilescu in Romania. What the comrades do there, we can do. With my outfit I have always arrived well in Romania." [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Merry Christmas, ladies and gentlemen! Advent, Advent!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19114	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG in 342 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of its report 342 of the supplements. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on Amendment No 230/A by Wolfgang Großruck, Mag. Herbert Hauptand comrades according to § 99 para. 1 GOG, on behalf of the Court of Auditors, on the implementation of special acts of conduct review (343 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19188	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The first was Mr Edler's speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19217	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the agenda item that we have now concluded, the address of the government parties is merely as follows: Pride rarely does good and comes just before the case! – Take note of this, especially you, Mr. Khol. You're gonna miss the laugh! Ladies and gentlemen! We are once again concerned that the blue-black government coalition is trying to scandalize. This time we are dealing with a hospital of world rank, a university clinic with a world call: the Vienna General Hospital. There is a request from Mr Grossruck and the former Member of the Court of Auditors for a special audit by the Court of Auditors to examine the AKH, especially the billing of the subprojects and, as far as construction is concerned, but this second position is still being taken back today, I believe. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a clear attempt to give flank protection to your cruel government policy! – Take note! [[Abg. Böhacker: Is it horrible?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was just in the middle of all these political struggles, on 3 July. April 2000, when the competent Minister of State Gehrer declared that the federal government would no longer fulfil its obligations of payment. – There is a contract between the federal government and the city of Vienna: Constitutional law is therefore actually a breach of the Treaty, and this is very unfortunate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! They have thus reached total uncertainty not only to doctors and staff, but above all to hundreds of thousands of patients in the General Hospital. Her health policy is inhuman, and she goes toward two-class medicine. – This will strictly reject social democracy! Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They called the Wiener Allgemeine Kranken hospital. You have discriminated against thousands of doctors, you have put hundreds of thousands of patients in fear. Ladies and gentlemen! If you are going to the General Hospital today – just to visit someone – then look at what is being done there! Talk to the people! Be happy if you have no one in the near range of the family and in the community of acquaintances who is seriously ill, because there are hundreds of people each year who have no chance of surviving, but who are saved life thanks to the world class medicine and the excellent treatment offered in the general hospital! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hartinger]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are obviously interested in creating chaos, because you have announced reforms of cold, social reduction and "speed kills" methods. To the Federal Minister of the Interior – unfortunately he is not present – who, as a Member of Parliament, made the request at the time, I would have to ask the question of how he now sees it as a health minister. I must say that I welcome some of the positions he is now representing State Secretary Waneck, as far as the ambulances are concerned. It is very interesting to see what different positions are introduced within the FPÖ government team: Although you have not been able to pay the ambulance fee that you with effect from 1. In January 2001, you decided to implement it, but you seem to stick to it. On the other hand, the Minister of Social Affairs has sent a message that he is willing to negotiate in certain areas towards social tolerance. It would also be interesting to refer to the address of the Minister of Health, the head of my colleague, the question as to how he sees the situation, how he sees the Vienna AKH being so misrepresented by this blue-black government. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me just show you what happens in the general hospital daily: 9 000 patients are treated there and a third – because it is always said that this is a question concerning the city of Vienna or the population of Vienna – comes from the federal states. To the Members of the Government Party to represent the Lower Austria: 25 percent come from Lower Austria, especially from rural areas – you know that very well! Two thirds of medical students are also trained in the general hospital. To the frequency per day: There are 1,800 stationary patients and 7 000 outpatient treatments, 7 000 workers are in service daily, 3,000 students are training there, and there are over 2,000 visitors. In total, over 11 000 colleagues are employed there. Ladies and gentlemen! Do everything! ==References== In December, an agreement was reached between the Federal Government and the city of Vienna, in the course of which the Federal Government was prepared to seek a consensus, on the basis of the constitutional action of the city of Vienna. A total of 5.1 billion Schilling will be made available by the federal government, which will also cover the years between 1985 and 1994. That's to be welcomed! This is really in the sense of Austrian medicine and especially the Vienna General Hospital! An 18-year dispute ends with this. The agreement is valid until 2003, and there is an edition for both sides – for the federal government and for the city of Vienna – now to get international experts and try to redesign according to market principles. – There is nothing to say about it at all. We are of course open to this, and I am sure that the federal government and the city of Vienna will come up with a common solution here. I would like to quote the city councillor Rieder, who, after this debate and agreement, meant: The winners of this agreement are the taxpayers, the winners of this agreement are the patients, the students and the scientists. – I think you can only underline that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let's set accents together for our Vienna General Hospital so that his performance of world rank in medicine will be preserved and his reputation restored! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19280	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19301	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear colleague Edler! You have now appeared to me like a dog who calls on the moon, because what you have now brought has nothing to do with the request that stands for debate! [[He-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Animal comparisons?- Oh, my God!]] That was inconceivable, it was unscrupulous, and that has nothing to do with the request for examination that is being submitted! Ladies and gentlemen, if you read this proposal, then ask [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Hartinger.]] She notes that it is not about the medical quality of the AKH Vienna – no one disputes it, and we can all be proud of it – but again about the socialist "spinnet" mentioned earlier, which has been fought during the establishment and during the current financing. This is to be reviewed by the Court of Auditors. I don't understand your way of thinking, Mr. Edler. You are already trying to bring in the Court of Auditors' review and perhaps to anticipate the outcome or to put the doctors at risk: This is not the case with the request! If you have read it, you know that it is about – I read it – checking the completion of the final calculation of the new construction of the General Hospital of the City of Vienna, particularly with regard to the subprojects already completed, taking into account the mathematical and factual accuracy and a cost comparison between the estimated costs and the actual cost of production. – It is therefore not of medical quality or of medical care that you have addressed. That's not why it's not at all, but it's about the question: What about the construction? The second point of the request – and that is why I am submitting the amendment – is not sufficient, because thanks be to God the federal government and the municipality of Vienna will agree on funding, because – I would like to say that too – the Socialist Minister for Finance and Social Affairs, with the involvement of the Socialist Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister of Science, with the socialist finance councillor Ederer and the Health Council of Vienna, in autumn 1999, concluded a new treaty which would have regulated these things for the future. However, we see it in the sense of responsibility for other university clinics in Austria and the equal treatment with them in such a way that there must be equal opportunities here, including with regard to the Federal's participation in costs. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] I am therefore very grateful to the Federal Minister for Science, who is now also responsible for science, for the fact that there is likely to be a regulation here, so that the second point of the request for examination is not met. That is why I make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19388	The amendment which has just been tabled is in a material context, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19412	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grossruck! I don't really want to say anything to you. They have exposed themselves: You will hold this discussion here in plenary without giving you the opportunity to conduct it in the Court of Auditors Committee, where we have invited several experts – experts from the AKH, the health finance institutions, the Federal Ministries and the control bodies – who could have said something about it. [[Abg. Großruck: You don't know each other! ... quite different!]] I can tell you today what it really is about you: It is a scandalizing of this problem! You are about to re-check in sub-areas and make comparisons that have long been made! I think back: There were 36 audits by the Supervisory Office and 18 audits by the Court of Auditors. Mr. Großruck! To check the construction costs that lie behind 20 years ago, please, only one horse will be able to wait! – Oh, and then the colleague argued more rationally? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: They're just not billed yet, dear colleague!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: At that time was a Black Health City Councillor,...!]] That's what he understood? [[Abg. Edlinger: I understand!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You are right in every way – and this is evident again today – to make defamatory statements about the former Federal Government in the run-up to the upcoming elections in Vienna, and you will not tire out, the SPÖ and its current government members, to agree on the competence of economic-oriented action. You haven't learned anything from the results of your scandalization experiments either. They have not learned anything from the election results of the Burgenland, where the scandals and scandalization have not taken hold. I ask you: Were the losses of ÖVP and FPÖ in Burgenland still too little for you? May it be a bit more for you in Vienna? [[Abg. Brix: Yes! Yes, I do!]] [[Abg. Amon: And in the Styria?]] I'm glad about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not even want to talk about the FPÖ, which had to be in the Burgenland, Styria and also in the chamber election of sensitive defeats. As far as the ÖVP is concerned, dear friends, who are actually the beneficiaries of the decline of the FPÖ, it has proved once again once again that it is fun to go to the dive station and not to know anything about a 13-year-old government participation. But today, friends, you too have to prove and confess what it is about you! You are concerned about the continuation of your non-social savings package in the area of Austrian healthcare. It's about saving on science, research and teaching. It's about saving in the general medical field. You really don't care that this high standard and the advantage of Austrian medicine is lost. It is about saving billions for all Austrians, and putting the money you save into interception hunters and other war materials, using it for the support of your big farmers and ultimately also for the relief of entrepreneurs. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I want to come back to what Pepi Edler said; Mr. Großruck, you can't wipe this off the table like that. The clinical additional burden in the AKH has also been discussed. If, as it turned out, 30 percent of patients in the AKH come from the other federal states, then the federal government will ultimately also have the obligation to replace this type of extra burden in the sense of all the sick people who are looking for the AKH as their home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it's enough reason. This clinical additional burden at the AKH Vienna, which is borne by the federal government, must ensure research and teaching and quality in training, as it has already been discussed. This training will continue, and it will become more cost-intensive. Quality assurance in health care for all sick people in Austria is a task that the Federation cannot escape. That's what he saw in the meantime. Pepi Edler has said that this Treaty has been concluded before the Constitutional Court. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: This comparison will make it possible to secure the AKH as the top international hospital, a competence which the university clinics in Innsbruck – Colleague Reheis will also come back to – and ultimately also recognize the LKH in Graz crediblely.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19546	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19567	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Mr Edlinger, you have noted in such a striking way in an interlocutory call: The solution would be if we had a black or a blue city councillor. [[Abg. Edlinger: Well, I didn't say that!]] That's what you said, you can read it in the Minutes, you said it! [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't talk about a blue member of the government!]] I have to let you down. It's about making policy for the patient – and nothing else! Not whether it's blue, black or red, it's about making policy for the patient. That should be in the foreground. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] To the Vienna Medical School, to the top medicine. It is the question of what it costs and who pays it. For the AKH, the Federal Government and the City of Vienna also have to pay 17.7 million schilling daily, outside social security. Ladies and gentlemen, this is 12 000 s per minute! [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The operating costs of the AKH since planning even separate the spirits. The federal government is asked to pay the 1 400 doctors for the university with all the research institutions, for the university clinics and for the payment of the 1 400 doctors. The city of Vienna pays the costs for 7,600 hospital servants, and it carries the operating deficit. The Court of Auditors has accused the city of Vienna of not getting under control of the AKH. The fact that health city councillor Rieder, former health city councillor Rieder did not control the AKH also proves that economic behaviour is not easy to see. At the Vienna budget one speaks of a deficit of 3.1 billion schilling, but in reality it is 6.5 billion schilling in operating loss! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems the SPÖ Vienna doesn't care how economically the AKH works. Six years after commissioning – you imagine that! – there is not even a final settlement. The city of Vienna has covered 37 billion schilling of hospital costs, the AKH has entered into operation in 1994 and there is not even a final settlement after six years. – That would be unimaginable in the private sector! But perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, have made Mr Rieder the Financial City Councillor. It is known how "good" the SPÖ deals with numbers and budgets, not only in its own party, but also in the Austrian state budget! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Edellinger.]] That's funny, isn't it? – I really wouldn’t laugh at your place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Please? [[Abg. Edlinger: I find you funny!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He thinks you're funny!]] It's not funny for me, it's sad for me. But it's good that we're in government now – and not you anymore! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's a joke!]] The Court of Auditors also criticises the lack of incentives to provide economic services and too many staff. It also criticises the lack of coordination of medical services between Vienna and Lower Austria. But all of this doesn't matter to the former health councillor Rieder. He thinks that there is no point in making a privatisation – a personality of his own – there. After all, everything must remain in the red, and a privatisation would probably prevent SPÖ from being able to make party policy. It is our duty as a politician to bear responsibility for the citizen, the patient and the taxpayer. It is therefore good that the Court of Auditors should point out these weaknesses. What we want is an AKH, which is future-oriented – forward-looking for medical progress – that works efficiently and is human, a hospital where employees and patients feel comfortable – and is not a party policy in the foreground!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19695	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19717	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! President of the Court of Auditors. Yes, let us first go out here to the speaker's desk, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and let's scandalize, let's do bad! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where else should we go?]] This will be the meeting of those you want to meet. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where do you want it?]] Mr President, this is a way that is definitely to be rejected by a government party which is supposed to work in a serious way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the past, they have provided headlines in the media, for example: "Zwist for payment", "Bund breaks hospital contract" and "13 years of dispute about AKH", or – you have to say that here too – I see that positively – "compromise secures financing of the AKH". This has, in any case, publicly demonstrated to the Austrians and the Viennans the conflict on the one hand, but also the compromise that has now been reached on the other. That's the positive, and that's what I'm saying. This was a conflict that has now been settled by means of a compromise between the city of Vienna and the federal government, and this is definitely a positive one. With this recently concluded treaty between the Federal Government and the City of Vienna, the judicial disputes of the past have finally ended, and the financial future of the AKH is assured. This ensures that the AKH Vienna can continue to be one of the world's best hospitals in the future. This is guaranteed by the fact that the Federation and the city of Vienna are taking a deeper hold of their pockets than they originally had. This is also the right way, for so in the future not only can be healed but continue to be researched and taught. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Nevertheless, with your application you obviously want to question the work for health, research and training: by scandalizing, insurmounting, and by igniting envy. Who do you want to meet, ladies and gentlemen? Do you want to play the Bundesländer-Interessen – Graz Hospital, Innsbruck – against the interests of the state of Vienna and the AKH? Is that already part of the Vienna election campaign? Does the direction of impact apply to those responsible so far, for example, financial councillor Ederer? It can't be! Financial City Councillor Ederer has a very good balance sheet and, as this compromise shows, also leaves an orderly house. Or there is also the strategy: Distraction from the tipping scandal of the FPÖ? I have the suspicion that even here again we are trying to sidetrack the real problems of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sure is definitely that They meet all those who are sick or who benefit from research and training at the AKH Vienna. After all, the majority of all Austrian virgins are trained in the Wiener AKH. The compromise according to which the Federal Government and the City of Vienna are prepared to pay 5.1 billion schilling by 2003 for the clinical additional burden, which is particularly generated for teaching and research in the general hospital, secures in any case the renowned medical research and training site of Austria. Let us not scandalize this, but emphasize it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition to Innsbruck and Graz, the AKH Wien is certainly worth this commitment by the Federal Government and the City of Vienna. This step was necessary to secure the AKH as a top global hospital and to ensure the care of patients – including the so-called foreign patients from the other federal states. This must, of course, be in the interest of the federal government. The AKH Vienna is not a hospital that Vienna has built for Vienna: After all, a large number of patients come from other federal states. The AKH will continue to be an excellent training centre for science and research in the future. Assurance which you have exercised from this Federal Government until the conclusion of this agreement is rejected. Such scandalizations, just to distract you from current problems, put a lot at risk. For example, I have considered some of the services of the hospital, the AKH Vienna, based on the 1999 key figures as regards the top medical services in the field of organ withdrawals, implantations and transplants. There would be a lot to list. Ladies and gentlemen, these are top performances, which are also to be mentioned, which may not be challenged by any government of interest you have for reasons of envy and scandal. The interventions, the AKH's achievements as one of the ten world's best hospitals, are at least truly impressive. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any case, top performance is research and clinical testing of genetic therapeutic approaches, the research of dialysis methods, concentrations at risk births and so on, including state-of-the-art breast-keeping operations in mammary cancers, the treatment of complex withdrawal symptoms or the treatment of pregnant drug patients. Until 2003, the Hospitals "Champions League" is secured for the AKH. Let us hope that the agreed compromise with which an international expert will develop a new model to pay the clinical additional burden by the end of 2003 will ensure the top position of the AKH after 2004 too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19795	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19817	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Pumberger – he will speak after me – and everyone else! In principle, it is quite simple: It would be very strange and through, I believe, nothing to defend why Greens should suddenly oppose Court of Auditors reports and audits. There's no reason for that. We have the best experiences, and the instrument is a sensible one. Nevertheless, one can ask questions, and they remain open. The one question is why you actually delete point 2, the only point that goes into the present. That's weird. They are dealing with a history that begins in the 1960s; the construction and planning times were, I would say, probably ten times as long as the AKH is now in full operation. If you are interested in this – of course, you will discover something that I do not doubt, and you can look at it. The second question is the motive of your interest. If the motif should be an anti-Vienna complex like "way from Vienna", "Wasskopf Wien", I must say: That's not what we're saying. We say yes to the examination, but I do not want to debate lower impulses. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] On the third question, "Do the institution and the facts belong to this?", you'll probably have to say yes. But if point 2 was taken out of you, I would have made the effort to re-write the explanatory statement. For point 1, the explanatory statement does not contain 5 percent of your letters, words and lines. Please, maybe someone would have the "Gnade" to explain that once! Furthermore, you ask questions about which I have to say: The Court of Auditors should not have to explain this to you anymore, you should know that. For example, you ask: What about the 50 percent that the federal government pays for? Are they still justified and acceptable? Can that harm Innsbruck and Graz? You should know: The division of the federal government, whether 50 or 40 percent – you can certainly argue about it; or even 60, if you want – results clearly from the dual function as a state hospital – also Vienna is a federal country – and university clinic; as well as by the so-called clinical extra burden. That no agreement has been reached on this for decades, of which I am aware of myself, sad. In Innsbruck, the first negotiations on the cooperation agreement failed after two years, because he read himself, so to speak, as the preface of Innsbrucker Holding; there were almost no German interests at all. In Vienna everything is more complicated – and that, as I admit, with good reason. Vienna is also bigger. Remember – and that's not a red problem alone! –: A few years ago, your party officer and vice chancellor Busek opened a game in the APA, a pingpong of the AKH lady: He gives it to the municipality of Vienna, the municipality of Vienna says yes; then the municipality of Vienna considers itself and says no; Busek says I'll take it all into the league. [[Abg. Edlinger: Only one day he said that! I offered it to him!]] Yes, okay – that was an impressive, interesting acting! And don't forget the desire for 50 percent – or whatever – in federal participations: These exist to the same extent at the two other locations, Graz and Innsbruck. What I would argue for is to choose the questions somewhat more refined and ask the following: If your parties always throw around with words like "competition" and "performance" – why don't you look at certain key or eccentric data from Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck and say: Okay, why does the administration cost so much here and so much? Why so much in Innsbruck? Why don't you really compare and see defects, so that Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck could probably be happy if they could learn from them and take a few things off? Why not ask the question of secondary employment? Why were you cowardly, or do we say, shy when I'm polite now? There was a survey at private fees, and who invited you? – The primer who benefited from the private fees, but not one of the others was there! You know that there are also decades of problems. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, Mr Edlinger and Mr Jarolim.]] Vienna, Innsbruck and Graz can be compared, so I don't need to condemn one and cheer up the other. Vienna has only 400 or a maximum of 500 beds more than Innsbruck and approximately 300 more than Graz, depending on how many are really open. That means be careful with the desire, and then really put the others in the competition for an evaluation! I think the Court of Auditors could certainly renew its proposal for cooperation agreements. In my opinion, only with a maximum of possible peace and consensus will I keep what has now been agreed. It will always be a dispute because it is precisely teaching, research and patient care that cannot be kept apart. That the AKH, Graz and Innsbruck need these funds is beyond doubt for me, even if there and there of course can be saved. The question is: Who is the benefit of this cost allocation? How do the rations of the cost-causers behave between the federal government and the country? Does that correspond to the actual flow of money? – But this is one thing that has already caused great spirits so to speak and thought tired. I wish you a solution. Finally – once again –: Yes, for any examination – the questions may be wiser, but the Court of Auditors can ask and supplement questions themselves – but no, if only: Now it's against Vienna, or now it's against spiders or other "smell" as you call it! That doesn't make much sense. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Only depends on who requests the examination, whether you are for it or against it!]] Mr. Pumberger! If I want to learn from you, I'll come to you personally. But you will notice that these moments are very rare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19882	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e19903	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The background to this AKH debate is on the one hand a party-political one: You think of the coalition parties to have to scandalize with the AKH. A second background is a health policy: ÖVP and FPÖ want to level the level of top medicine for the general public, screw down and save. The aim is, ladies and gentlemen, that the rich have everything, the majority must pay it and see for themselves where it remains. [[Abg. Grossruck: A class fighter!]] So a typical distribution from bottom to top! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is class fight!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's so easy!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to give you further examples in addition to this AKH debate. Another example is the privatisation of flight rescue, Mrs Steibl, or a third example of Mr Khol's current request and Mr Westenthaler's amendment of the Pharmacy Act. Ladies and gentlemen! This request is based on the tendency to weaken public pharmacies and increase the revenue of private doctors. Medical house pharmacies should be cemented where they have lost nothing, so to speak. You all need to know better what benefits public pharmacies offer. What about pharmacovigilance, Mr Rasinger? What about the four-eye principle? What about the continuous night service system? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You have the wrong request!]] With this request, which is to be found in the explanatory statement, you want to "create equal opportunities" between medical pharmacies and public pharmacies. – Mr Pumberger, is it not known to you that a fundamental principle of pharmacy law is the priority of public pharmacy, that the historical legislator did not want equal opportunities at all, that a house apotheque like yours is actually an auxiliary construction, a surrogate? Actually, an emergency solution if there is no public pharmacy anywhere? [[Abg. Amon: Think a little about the people in the country!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, want to screw down the optimal drug supply for the population and to get additional revenue for certain doctors. Dr. Pumberger smiles: It will take millions by this novel – and will then inject heroin subcutaneously according to heart's desire. The applicant Dr. Khol will also smile. He will explain to the domestic doctors in the Tyrolean valleys that he has saved the house pharmacies – although this has never been in question at all. And Ing. Westenthaler will not at all know at what request his name here is, because health policy does not matter to him anyway. I can assure you, Dr. Pumberger: We will discuss this issue with commitment and vehemence also at the beginning of the next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20003	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20024	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the time has already advanced, I would like to take a very short look at the fact that it expressly supports my party that the Court of Auditors is reviewing the final accounts of the Vienna AKH. This is not an attack on VAMED, it is simply and simply necessary – and this has nothing to do with "scandization", Mr. Colleague! Because the federal government and the state of Vienna have agreed on AKH financing last week, everyone involved can actually deal with this very emotionally. The Court of Auditors will, as we have known for years, examine it objectively and with a great deal of expertise. I would like to thank you once again at this point, Mr Dr. Fiedler: you and your officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore believe that we have no reason to question Austrian health care in any form. Here good work is done, and the university clinics also cover the top area very well. But we will have to say goodbye to the idea, ladies and gentlemen, that we get more and better medicine for less money. I am convinced that the Court of Auditors will make very clear what is possible and what is not possible in this area with the planned audit. It will then be up to us politicians to draw the necessary conclusions. This is precisely what we need to do in order to create the best possible framework conditions for top medicine in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20066	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Pumberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20088	Mr President. Mr President, Dr. Fierce! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to the contributions made by my colleagues from the Socialist Group. If I may start with the previous one: Mr. Dr. Kräber, as was the case with each budget debate, speaks of a "redistribution from the bottom to the top" within the framework of this Court of Auditors request and also calls for the rescue of air traffic. Mr Reheis praised the top achievements of medicine in Austria, but did not respond with a word to the request, to the meaning of this request. Mr Faul, who even received some presidential votes at the time, makes a brief reference to the outcome of the Burgenland election – whether no one has learned anything from it – and tells us that it was only about saving the government parties. [[Abg. Edlinger: We are very excited about your censorships, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: So what did you inject now, Mr. Doctor?]] Of course it's about saving. This has become necessary after a 30-year waste policy of the Social Democrats! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In the context of this debate on the request for a large truck to review the new construction of the General Hospital, Faul points out quite "decent" to interceptors and large farmers, who are also to receive money. Edler says that the AKH's reputation has been ruined by this request. Edler says... [[Abg. Edlinger: What do you say now...?]] Not Edlinger – he's still coming! - but Edler says: The call of the AKH has been ruined by the application at all, it has to be restored. [[Abg. Edellinger: We are really really staring at horror! Totally rigid talk!]] The Liberals and the People's Party, they are scandalizers, and we have pursued an inhuman health policy because we want nothing but a review of the new construction of the General Hospital by the Court of Auditors. The final settlement is to be checked. - You can't do that, you shouldn't check it! Mr Grünewald is also in favour of reviews. However, he does not want a review if the request comes from the liberals or from the ÖVP. - I don't understand that at all. He says: Check yes, but in this case no! He's always for inspections, but he's not today. [[Abg. Edlinger:... what you inject, inject!]] That is why I see myself in need after presenting this excerpt here to my predecessor to read the whole-length request again. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is for your group! The others understood it!]] "The National Council wants to decide: The Court of Auditors shall, in accordance with § 99 para. 1 GOG mandated to... review the completion of the final calculation of the new building of the General Hospital of the City of Vienna... taking into account the mathematical and factual accuracy...". Let's go, let's go! More is not contained in this proposal. Nothing of inhuman health policy, nothing from the Burgenland election, nothing from the rescue of flights – and, Mr Edler, there is nothing inside of the railway! [[Abg. Edler: When was this application submitted?]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Nothing from injections?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] But after Mr. Town Councillor for Health, Rieder, has now discharged and will enter the tracks of the old finance minister Edler... [[Abg. Faul: Edlinger, Mr. Brummberger!]] Edellinger, not Edler – perhaps he will again, because the Viennans get the top forces like the Pittermann from Parliament! That's why I'm already excited if the pitterman will manage to get the agendas of the General Hospital. Recently, a patient told me that it had happened to him that he went out from his sick room – he was in Vienna in general hospital – and before his sick room he was offered hashish. He was offered hashish in front of his sick room! [[Abg. Faul: You?]] There's, I think, the new health city councillor in the right place. [[Abg. Faul: Or maybe a heroin syringe?]] She changed her line, she turned from anti-drug policy. It is for the general release of drugs, so that in sick rooms and in front of the sick rooms in the AKH, not only hashish, but much more can be offered free of penalties. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Steibl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To return to the real topic: I am convinced that the Court of Auditors will give us a good report. I'm already excited about it! In this sense – as I believe I am the last liberal speaker in the old millennium – I wish you a good turn of the millennium! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] In the next millennium, we will hopefully discuss this report by the Court of Auditors – and not only the railways, the Burgenland election and also the "redistribution from bottom to top" or the rescue of flights and the interception hunters!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20303	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. His speaking time is short: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20325	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I do not understand the excitement of the Social Democratic Members either! I mean, we should take a sober look at the state-of-the-art test! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In 1982, the construction contract of the AKH was revised with the federal government and the city of Vienna, instead of the General Hospital Planning and Design GesmbH, VOEST Alpine Medical Technology GesmbH entered, shortened VAMED. It has entered into the existing Treaty and this Treaty is neither temporary nor financial. Unfortunately, due to the privatisation of VAMED in 1996, budgetary audit and control possibilities that ensure a economical, economic and appropriate conduct were no longer guaranteed. However, if we apply only one passage in the 1995 Court of Auditors' Perception Report, we can see that the Court of Auditors confirms that medical services are offered at the highest level in the Vienna General Hospital. Furthermore, the Court of Auditors confirms that medical and scientific teaching and research services as well as top medical care at international level are recognised! – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! That is a positive point! Of course, there is also criticism from the Court of Auditors, not the government or the EIA, but the Court of Auditors criticises the high construction costs of around 42,5 billion schilling and the operating costs in this case far above other university clinics. The Court of Auditors takes this into account, in particular, the long construction period and the numerous reorganisations. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors also refers to an insufficient corporate concept and notes critically that at the time of the examination neither the corporate concept of the collegial management nor the proposals of the VAMED for the administrative management are implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are very pleased to agree to this request for the Court of Auditors' mandate with the examination of course.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20368	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20386	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Sometime now is time for a final settlement, and I think the time for a final settlement is now! No one wants to question the scientific achievements of the AKH or its benefits for the health of our citizens. However, the Court of Auditors has often criticised the AKH's cost bill, the controlling and the organisation and administration, and it has also criticised the fact that the new building has taken too long and has cost too much and is basically moving to this day. The AKH is purely administratively still in the new building, because it was of great interest, of course, that there were, as long as possible, subsidies from the federal government for the new building! The time for final settlement is now because there is now an agreement between the federal government and the country. This new building can be theoretically long, but de facto, of course, it is actually completed. I congratulate the President of the Court of Auditors on reading his recommendations for the Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs that the necessary measures should be taken to terminate the construction contract of the new building of the AKH and to reduce the proportion of the federal government in investment financing as part of the medical additional burden. . That is exactly what has now been achieved and has been implemented, i.e. the recommendations of the Court of Auditors have been implemented in this context. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why I believe that a final calculation for the new building, if it corresponds to an objective examination and recommendations are prepared, will certainly be positive for the Federation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20435	The next speaker is Mr Lexer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20453	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the AKH, the scandal seems to have already been established for the SPÖ, for how could I interpret Mr Faul's comments differently, which is already speaking of "scandulation" in submitting a test application. – In this way, the entire Court of Auditors would be a permanent scandalist producer and not – as we all believe or know – an important institution that, on the basis of its audits, produces positive or negative reports from which we should all learn! After eleven speakers, it is no longer possible for me to express an additional argument for the test application. I therefore remain with the basic: Examination and control are important and correct in a democracy. We are in favour of a special audit by the Court of Auditors, regardless of the undisputed medical quality of the AKH, which is indeed the world's peak, which we can only look forward to.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20483	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20502	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Chancellor! Mr Pumberger has once again managed not to understand colleagues Green Forest at all! But that's not new. Mr Pumberger! Somehow you have escaped – which is a piece of art! – that we will agree to this request! We will therefore vote in favour of this request, because it is not intended to serve this purpose – I am now referring to the SPÖ address – to be presented in a preventive way as a scandalisation attempt. In fact, there is still a lot to be checked at the AKH, and in reality, it is up to the Court of Auditors to examine this area, which now needs to be reviewed at least in sub-areas or, at least from our point of view, to review it. But now I'm talking about something completely different: You can confirm once again our willingness to vote on such occasions when it comes to proper control in this Republic and the institution of Parliament, the Court of Auditors, Mr Pumberger, is used for a meaningful audit work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] As always, however, in the case of such a vote by the Green Group, it would also be very useful if the majority groups would also give their approval to those test requests made by the minority groups instead of constantly suspending the accusation – and they do – that in this country only the new majority selects what is being examined and what is not! This is the unbearable state of control! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where everything fits into the picture! How many applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry have been rejected here? – Five to eight! It's unbearable all the time! In this context, I would like to say once again once again at the beginning of the year that a year ago, in accordance with four political groups, we made an accusation that the setting up of committee of inquiry should become minority law. – But there is now nothing but silence or conscious delay by colleagues Khol and Westenthal. In each second presidential session the same game: At some point there will be an appointment to discuss whether or not an appointment will become available. Take such "serious" You're taking care of it back then! That's just double-bedded! That is why I would like to invite you to proceed differently in the future, so that you do not continue to be in need of argumentation in order to prevent all necessary controls and other inspections in our country! Mr. Khol! Mr Westenthaler! Mr Pumberger! What you're always doing about investigations is wrong! On the other hand, it would be great if you could at last decide to agree to the right of minorities to set up an investigation committee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20565	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall come to the vote, and we shall vote first of all on the request made by the Court of Auditors in 343 of the Supplements, according to which the Court of Auditors, according to § 99 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be subject to a review. That's what Members Großruck, Mag, have to say. Trattner and comrades submitted an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the amendment request and then on the remaining parts of the audit order, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Großruck, Mag. Trattner and comrades have therefore submitted an amendment to the audit order. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this amendment to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now vote on the remaining part of the Committee's request in 343 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the remaining part of the request to give a sign. – I notice: This was unanimously decided by the National Council. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the National Court of St. Pölten (31 E Vr 913/00, 31 E Hv 42/00) for approval of the official prosecution of the Deputies to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler(390 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20626	That's what we're going to get to the 11th. Agenda item. The rapporteur does not wish to have a report. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20657	Federal Chancellor! Mr President. High house! On the other hand, it is a need, as a Member of Parliament, who has been here in this House for 17 years – I came in together with colleagues Haigermoser and some others at the time – to say a few words on the issue of immunity and this extradition desire. The immunity always had a certain meaning for me, and I also felt it myself: The honourable Member must be given the opportunity to show things that are unclear, which may be dubious or suspicious, without being able to be persecuted by powerful people, such as companies, from money lobbys, to the brink of existence. This was a good establishment and, as I would say, it is still a good establishment today. Even in the light of well-known statements by the former party chairman of the "F", Haider, who meant that one had to consider that also ungrateful Members can be persecuted – I am now a little shorter – it turns out that immunity is extremely important. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: This is very much shortened, because that is wrong!]] Some time ago – some Members will remember – we introduced the new practice in certain cases, that we are very well handing over to the court in the event of insults or certain offences, which are not in a political speech, but in the beer tent – I emphasize this – or in public, for example, at press conferences, and that we are leaving the further treatment to the court. However, we all know that this was actually a "Lex Haider" that we did at the time and with which we softened our immunity. This has, of course, light and shadow sides. I have once asked the Immunities Committee that we get a statistics on how extradition practice has been presented since then, and what results from this is very interesting: In the XX. The legislative period was still a member of the National Council of Haider. At the time, there were 15 such extraditions to the judicial system, nine of which were cases, 60 percent, co-workers Haider. In the meantime, the liberals have improved, although the current legislative period has only lasted for 14 months: Today, the liberals have only a 40 percent share. – At that time, Haider had a 60 percent share in a "normal" legislative period, in the current GP, which only lasts 14 months – and that's a record suspect! – the liberals only have a 40 percent share. These 40 percent, however, concern a single person who is unfortunately no longer here in the hall, namely Klubobmann Westenthaler. Westenthaler thus follows the footsteps of his great former chairman, that is highly interesting! I am very different in this regard, I often hear speeches from this point of view or read them in the Minutes and also discuss some words with my party friends: There are Members here who criticize us quite harshly and partly provocatively. I am referring, for example, to Mr Ofner, Mr Schweitzer, whom I also list in this category, or to Mr Krüger. However, I could list a few Members of each group, because they exist in all the political groups, but in particular in your ranks, who argue and make accusations, not only here in Parliament, but also outside Parliament, where people cannot defend themselves. We'll see that very carefully. I have collected examples of this and now I would like to mention, for example, that Mr. Haidlmayr was publicly referred to as a "left-wing extreme terrorist". [[Abg. May. Mainoni: She threatened Parliament!]] It took a very long time, but she won the trial and had to pay for the freedom-free Steirer party. However, Mr Graf, although he was a lawyer or lawyer, has said that again. My colleague, Mr Hofmann, has been so loosely looting earlier. I mean, he has no reason to chat like that, because he has... [[Abg. Achatz: Neither do you!]] I have also been sentenced, Mrs Achatz! Mr Hofmann, with a comparatively much more elaborate claim that a politician can really meet, claimed by colleague Fekter and me in a Vöcklabrucker newspaper – and at first he did not know about it – that we had freed a serious criminal Bosnian by intervention. I say that so that you know how the procedure is in these rows. [[towards the liberals]] – The procedure in question lasted for two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] After a year, the Oberlandesgericht Linz found that this cannot be so that one cannot deal with the citizen in such a way and that in this case the liberal group must hold. The Vöcklabruck city party said: We have no legal personality, forget us! Over the course of another year – that was before the National Council election – it turned out that the writer of these lines was Mr Hofmann. Now I am getting a little into this issue, because Mr Hofmann then called in a hearing for his information to come from a letter from the Gendarmerie; however, he was never able to present this letter. It's logged. He said that he would present the letter in 14 days, but he could not present it. That is the fact, even if Mr Hofmann is shaking his head now! He could not present the letter! Mr Hofmann, you had the information from the Gendarmerie, I know who was AUF personnel representatives at the time! The fact is that after two years the city party was sentenced. They then waited until after the National Council election, the paper no longer appeared, and the apologies came after the National Council election. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't tell old stories!]] That's your method! This is the method which, in principle, also uses Col. Westenthaler as a teacher of his Master so beautifully! This is not about constructive, harsh criticism, but about defaming people, meeting and destroying them personally. However, he often has the impression that the same thing is happening to him. So colleague Westenthaler sits in the glass house and throws stones. It would be interesting to light that up if I had a longer time. The chancellor isn't here anymore, but I wanted to recommend something to him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Is he still there? – I have made myself a hot page called "Current", a weekly newspaper. On the part of the ÖVP you should read the article "The Interested Chancellor". The editor-in-chief is a Mr Mölzer, who is certainly close to this party. I would also recommend reading a highly interesting article in the "Presse" in which it is about Gilbert Trattner. There is talk of an honest man, of delicate flows of money in the FPÖ and that the look is not always the best. I have now tried to draw in a short period of time a small picture of what you should think about. – I am saying about harsh criticism and factual arguments, but I believe that diffamating political opponents – I am thinking of a school director in Upper Austria, who was called an alcoholic, and I could bring a number of examples – is unfair, unfair and inhuman!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20757	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20779	Mr President. High house! I very much appreciate the fact that you are part of the social democracy with which we have always had a constructive dialogue. But after you put your clubman in the last row, you now obviously have to compete for the favor of party leadership. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I am really disappointed – and I am telling you from this point of view – that you are now going to be in a really dangerous slut. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Why?]] You did it in your speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] We really have – and we should really do that! – to take on immunity itself and to find a new, more adequate solution, because this principle of reason, which was made at the time, is not really the yellow of the egg. You have to admit or admit that. However, what you have said here from the speaker's desk is very revealing: They are now starting to do daily policy again with relatively old extradition cases. [[Abg. Swimmling: We're trying to represent the system!]] You said, in the opening, that you, Mr Doppelmüller, and, as I believe, you are also very different from social democracy. I think it is already beginning to become dangerous, and I wonder: Is this a new attempt to measure by two measures? They claim that you and the Social Democracy are objective, can distinguish, and can always say in the pre-judgment what is going on and what is not going on, what is just and what is unfair, what is really right and what is wrong. Should I tell you, what is the difference between a fundamentalist and an idealist? – The idealist to whom I have always counted you knows what is right and what is wrong. Fundamentalists, to whom you belong for me today, because you have spoken just as well as your party leaders, also distinguish between good and evil or measure yourself to be able to make this distinction! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You, Mr Doppelmüller, are taking the measure of being able to make an assessment which does not apply to us. We here in the House are not a court – and hopefully it will never be, even if social democracy still so often demands it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] We only have to decide on the consent or the refusal of extradition. Do not always pretend that extradition at the same time means guilt, condemnation and the like! That you think so, however, can be seen from your words! I now give you the living example that this does not apply: Mr Westenthaler was also the most extraditional politicians in his day, but he was not even condemned! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's the difference: Right in this country still speaks the court, but not the Social Democrats or the current majority! Remember that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Even if colleagues in Westenthal affect 40 percent of extradition cases, this does not mean that he is in any case condemned! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Haidlmayr!]] Now I'm gonna tell you something: It also corresponds to a moral image, if one repeatedly claims in the public that we are making the opposition with complaints, but it is different, as you yourself say here from the speaker's desk, that the Social Democrats and their representatives are complaining to our mandates. Every extradition case is a case of the defendant party. Remember that! What's really right now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] I ask you: If you distinguish between "constructive" and "non-constructive criticism" here in cases of immunity, what is the difference?- Oh, my God! You want to decide what is constructive or not constructive? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] I'll tell you: The decision or the judgment on it is not the Social Democracy and also not Mr. Doppelmüller and his comrades, but still the elector! The voters in our country decide whether something was constructive or not, and he also determines the composition of this House! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Let me tell you again: If you want to measure with two different measurements, go to dangerous smoothness! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: You're moving on!]] There is a real need to discuss one or another on immunity issues, perhaps even in the direction that we involve civil complaints that can really endanger existence. There is no threat to existence of an offence of honour; we all know that. This is only interesting for day-to-day policy in the case of extradition. At the time, they made the decision that extraditions would be differentiated – and we live under this manko! I therefore believe that, as has been said, there is a need to really deal with the extent to which and in what cases immunity is to be taken, and then to adopt a legal regulation that we have to address – that, however, one does not adhere to a saying practice that can and will change depending on majority relations. This is not a good service for the free mandate and for the Members. Please note! But you are invited to make a new arrangement with us! Perhaps we will come to a constructive result! However, I do not want social democracy to continue to play the moral apostle and to make policy over "political correctness" and ultimately try to make the political opponent mouth dead by reason of the sluggishness of the mind!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20933	No one is reporting on this. That concludes the debate. We shall vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 390 of the Supplements to decide on the following: 1. In the case of the request of the Landesgerichts St. Pölten of 6. November 2000, 31 E Vr 913/00, 31 E Hv 42/00, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler will be Art. 57 para. 3 BV-G notes that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthalerbestand. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler is approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this motion from the Committee on Immunities to give a sign on this point. – This is decided by a majority. 12. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Court of St. Pölten (31 E Vr 914/00, 31 E Hv 43/00) for approval of the official prosecution of the Deputies to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler(391 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e20995	We'll get to the 12th. Agenda item. I don't think that's what I'm talking about. Therefore, we shall immediately vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 391 of the supplements, which also consists of two points. 1. In the case of the request of the Landesgericht St. Pölten of the 6th Chamber of Appeal. November 2000, 31 E Vr 914/00, 31 E Hv 43/00, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler will be Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies of Ing. Peter Westenthalerbestand. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler is approved. I should also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this two-point request for a sign of approval. – I notice: This request was accepted by a majority vote. 13. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters (9a E Vr 8457/00, Hv 5014/00) for approval of the official prosecution of Members to the National Council Mag. Andrea Kuntzl(402 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e21058	I'm coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There are no words for this. We therefore come to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 402 of the Supplements to the National Council's stenographic protocols to take the following two decisions: 1. In response to the request of the State Court of Criminal Matters in Vienna of 17 November, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No. In November 2000, (9a E Vr 8457/00, Hv 5014/00), for approval of the official persecution of Members of the National Council Mag. Andrea Kuntzl will be referred to in Article 57. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies Andrea Kuntzl. 2. An official persecution by Mrs Deputies to the National Council. Andrea Kuntzl will be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal by the Committee on Immunities to give a sign on this point. . The National Council shall adopt this request by a majority vote. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters (9a E Vr 8857/00, Hv 5238/00) for approval of the official prosecution of the Deputies to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler(403 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e21116	We come to the 14th. Agenda item. There are no words available for this purpose. Therefore, we shall vote on the two-point request made by the Immunities Committee in 403 of the supplements, according to which the National Council intends to decide: 1. In response to the request of the State Court of Criminal Matters in Vienna of 17 November, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No. In November 2000, (9a E Vr 8857/00, Hv 5238/00), for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler is referred to in Article 57(1). 3 of the Federal Constitutional Act stated that a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutors and the political activity of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler exists. 2. An official persecution of the MP to the National Council ing. Peter Westenthaler is approved. I would ask that those ladies and gentlemen who join this request from the Immunities Committee show this by a sign. – This is decided by a majority. [[Abg.==References====External links== Dr. Gusenbauer) The fact that you sit as party chairman with colleague Kuntzl and agree to this request is the last thing at all!]] 15. Point of election of a member and a substitute member to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e21173	We arrive at the 15th. Agenda item. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] We're already in Europe! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's bad! He's still sitting at the Kuntzl because he's afraid she's being sentenced!]] On the basis of the reluctance of membership to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of Deputies, Ing. Peter Westenthaleris making the choice of a new member and a replacement member. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He can be sure that this is everywhere! There's never been that!]] On the part of the Freedom Party there is the proposal to elect the former replacement member, Mr Wolfgang Jung, as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and in its place as replacement member of Mrs Irina Schoettel-Delacher. There is only one motion for a resolution. In this case, the Rules of Procedure will give us the opportunity not to vote with votes if no objection is raised. I therefore ask: Is there any objection to this procedure in the vote? This is not the case. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen to give a sign of approval for the adoption of the electoral proposal I have announced for the election of a member and a substitute member of the Council of Europe. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, Mr Wolfgang Jung has been elected a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and Mrs Irina Schoettel-Delacher as a substitute member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The agenda for this meeting is exhausted. However, we still have to approve the Official Protocol so that the Federal Council can complete the work and then hold a short allocation meeting for a joint four-party application. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e21251	I am still announcing that at today's meeting, the self-employed applications were submitted 350/A to 353/A and that the questions 1664/J to 1698/J were received. Finally, a question has also been raised to the President of the National Council. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2000-12-14-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00052_d7e21275	There is a desire from 20 Members to read the Official Protocol on Agenda items 1 to 8, so that these parts of the Protocol can be designated as approved at the end of today's sitting. This will enable the immediate implementation of the decisions taken by the National Council. I therefore read the Official Protocol in the following brief wording: "Day-and-day arrangement point 1: Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/1 EA). Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Achatz have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 1/2 EA). Deputies Mag. Maier and comrades shall submit the amendment to Supplement 1/3. Deputies Mag. Maier and comrades bring the motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA, which is explained in its core points; the President has the reproduction and distribution according to § 55 para. 3 in conjunction with § 53 para. 4 GOG. The vote will take place at The draft law will be adopted by majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 412. The amendment Annex 1/3 is rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/1 EA is hereby rejected. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/2 EA was adopted unanimously. The motion for a resolution Supplement 1/4 EA is hereby rejected. Agenda items 2 and 3: Mr Van der Bellen and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/1 EA). Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Stumbling, Mag. Trattner and comrades shall submit the motion for a resolution to Supplement 2/2 EA. Mr Moser and Mr Comrades have tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 2/3 EA). Deputies DDr. Deweisers and comrades shall submit the amendment proposal Supplement 2/4. Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Stumbling, Mag. Trattner and comrades shall submit the amendment amendment Supplement 2/5, which shall be explained in its core points; the President shall have the reproduction and distribution according to § 53 para. 4 GOG. The vote will take place at Agenda item 2: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 408 of the Supplements, as amended by the amendment, is adopted by a majority vote in second and third reading. The amendment in Annex 2/4 is rejected. The motion for a resolution in Annex 2/1 EA is rejected. The motion for a resolution in Supplement 2/2 EA was adopted by a majority vote. The motion for a resolution, Supplement 2/3 EA, is hereby rejected. Agenda item 3: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 406 of the Supplements, is adopted by majority votes in second and third reading in the presence of the constitutional number of Members, and therefore with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda item 4: Deputies Böhacker, Dkfm. Dr. Stummful and comrades submit the amendment amendment supplement 4/1. The vote will take place at The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 407 of the Supplements, will be adopted by a majority vote in second and third reading, taking into account this amendment amendment. Agenda item 5: The vote will take place at The draft law will be adopted by majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 408. Agenda items 6 and 7: Mr Lacner and Mr Comrades tabled the motion for a resolution (Annex 6/1 EA). Deputies Gaugg, Dr. Feurstein and comrades are tabling the amendment Addenda 6/2. There is a demand for separate vote (Annex VI/1). Votes: Agenda item 6: The draft law, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 409 of the Supplements, will be adopted unanimously in a separate vote at second reading, taking into account the amendment Annex 6/2, in part by majority and in third reading by majority. The motion for a resolution Supplement 6/1 EA is rejected. Agenda item 7: The conclusion of the above agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG and its annex shall be approved by majority in 410 of the supplements in accordance with the Committee's request. Agenda item 8: The vote will take place at The draft law will be adopted by majority in the second and third readings, in accordance with the Committee's proposal in 411." On the basis of a request from 20 Members, the Official Protocol will be read in this sense. You've heard this official record. They have certainly checked all the attached numbers and found that the sections selected correspond to the applications actually submitted. [[Call the Greens:Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: Error free!]] I therefore ask: Are objections to this version and to the content of the Official Protocol just read? – There are no objections. I am therefore entitled to observe that this Official Protocol is in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall be deemed approved. The next meeting of the National Council is to be convened immediately after this meeting, i.e. at 10:10 p.m. This meeting is closed.
