ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4718	Ladies and gentlemen! I welcome all of you very much. I hope you had a nice summer, and open the 35. National Council meeting during the current legislative period. Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4743	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 29. In accordance with Article 28(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXI, on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== The official protocols of 33. Meeting of 6. ==References== Meeting of 7. In July 2000, the Parliament's Directorate remained in a state of disrepute and without any opposition. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Sophie Bauer, Edlinger, Mag. Firlinger, Grabner, Dr. Grünewald and Reitsamer. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4778	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a notice that Mr Dieter Böhmdorfer has not given up his mandate and that Ms Jutta has been appointed to the National Council instead of Ms Jutta. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula by the author, Mr Schweitzer, the new representative will have to do her fishing with the words "I promise". I should now like to ask the author of the document to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4808	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4824	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4839	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e4866	With regard to the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to § 23 para. 4 GoG to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5170	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure asked that the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting be dealt with urgently by Dr Gusenbauer and comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on the continuation of the Austrian Federal Government's budgetary tax rate. Within the meaning of the relevant provisions you all know, and the previous practice will call the urgent request at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response 1002/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5194	I should also like to inform you, before entering the agenda, that I have the desire to hold a short debate on the 1002/AB reply to the question of the German Federal Minister for Justice's Zeitgeist Justice, under § 92 GOG. As for today's sitting, as has just been announced, the debate on a urgent matter will be held after the debate and any vote has been held during the urgent debate. I am now interrupting the meeting and will resume it at 3 p.m. to deal with the urgent question. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.05 a.m. and resumed at 15.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5232	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 35. The meeting of the National Council at the agreed time was resumed. I can ask you to take the seats. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Dr. Gusenbauer, Vergestnich, Mag. Maria Kubitschek, Gradwelt and Comrades to the Federal Minister for Finance on the continuation of the budgetary burden rate of the Austrian Federal Government (1178/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e5272	We are now entering the urgent debate on written question 1178/J. She has now approached all the Members of this House so that the reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6376	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the first questioner is given the floor for the reasons for the urgent question. His speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. In this sense, I give the floor to Mr Gusenbauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6400	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Before us there are first proposals for the continuation of the consolidation course of the Austrian State budget. In the past legislative period, Austria has consolidated the government budget from 5.4 percent deficit to 2.2%. It is now about the essential question of what the further path of consolidation should look like. We Socialists have put forward proposals to the Minister for Finance and have pointed out that the most important thing is to continue consolidation, that during this legislative period there is no unnecessary additional expenditure, as provided for in the government programme. We have called for a comprehensive administrative and task reform of the public service. We have proposed a fair taxation of property and assets and of fund income. We have called for a social reform in the field of agricultural support, which in Austria covers a volume of 18 billion schillings. We have proposed a timely introduction of the truck toll in 2002. And we have thought that the most important point for fiscal consolidation is that there should be no negative impact on growth and employment in Austria, and we have said that it is urgently necessary now to put in place measures in the fields of research, development and education, and we have ultimately called for budgetary consolidation to be socially balanced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These proposals are based on the objective of getting a forward-looking, fair and sustainable budget for 2001 and 2002. Unfortunately, of these proposals, the 'Bremser Package' which was presented to us last Friday is relatively few. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Even the 2000 budget was a little creative, but primarily a sceptical budget. And do you know what it looks like with the 2001 and 2002 budget? – Just like with the 2000 budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Who are ultimately the pushers of the 2001 and 2002 budgets? – The down payers are the average earners. The middle class and the skilled workers are taxed, performance is punished, and the economy that wants to invest, grow and create jobs is also punished. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't count!]] On the other hand, entrepreneurs such as Mr Prinzhorn, Mr Bartenstein and the owners of billions of assets in foundations are offered. The burden on the small people you decided in the 2000 budget remains. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I don't know!]] What we propose is the difference between a programme of justice and your programme, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want a budget in which the rich also make their fair contribution, and we do not want those who deliver in this country to continue to be asked for cash. We want the economy to be encouraged to grow and create jobs, but we do not want them to be punished for their services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want a tax stop for small and medium-sized incomes, but you continue to burden these people in our country. We want to secure Austria's future opportunities, but you endanger them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Equipment kits are these! Wischi!]] The package of brakes, the package you presented to us on Friday, is a package with less and not more opportunities for Austria. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You have implemented the sluggish programme for the middle class in Austria, while you have turned on the stage for Mr. Prinzhorn and Mr. Bartenstein. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These budget proposals slow down economic growth, as demonstrated by the Secretary-General of the Industrial Union of these days, which slows down your budget proposals for employment and performance, and these give your budget proposals the chance of just reforms. Today we put forward proposals and alternatives in the form of motions for resolutions, and with the adoption of these motions for resolutions, Austria – our country and its population – would be very much spared. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today we invite FPÖ to prove the truth. It can accept our motion for a resolution, in which we call for income increases in foundations to be taxed as well as the interest income of the small savings bank owners in Austria. That would be just an act of justice. You have the opportunity to strengthen your justice profile by agreeing to this resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You need to sharpen the profile!]] There is a situation in Austria where, on the one hand, more than 70 000 Austrian farmers receive less than 50 000 S of annual funding, while on the other hand, large landowners and landlords receive two-digit million amounts of annual funding. We are making a request for social staggering. You have the opportunity to go there and strengthen your profile of social justice, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We would like to ask you to stop the burden on the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, and if you take your own full-bodied announcements seriously, you will also agree to this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (a sheet of paper with the label) "The Standard": Opinion researcher: SP-chef Gusenbauer "tastrophic!" Let us point out that the opinion researchers have the right to do so!]] It is a question of the credibility of the current Federal Government, and the question of what can still be believed by this government. The Federal Chancellor has promised with great honor that there will be no tax increases, it will only be saved in expenditure. It has come to tax increases and a new record tax burden for the Austrian population of 46 percent. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! You have promised with great honor that the state will save itself, and now you get the money primarily from the citizens and the businesses. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If, with a consolidation volume of 100 billion schillings, you are mainly applying 30 billion schillings to Maastricht budgets, you are talking about spending restrictions of 42 billion schillings, most of which are one-off measures, and if you cannot put forward plans in those areas in which reforms are to be made, namely in public service and in social reduction, but on the other hand you are carrying out a tax increase of 28 billion schillings, I must say: This is a package of tax increases and not a restriction on the state, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! They have promised courageous reforms with great honor. Out comes a simple hole stopping, a flicking plant without much imagination that increases in core taxes. It doesn't matter how you want to name it technically. You promised to put the cards honestly on the table. It came out last Friday that your cards have sunk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Their representation is essentially a mixture of sugar and whip, but in reality only the whip remains. The first whip bang was the 2000 budget, a whip bang for the people involved in small and medium incomes in Austria. The second whip is the 2000 and 2001 budgets, for SMEs, for skilled workers and for the economy. Head of State Sausgruber, who has already received a right against the majority of the ÖVP, has already announced that a new savings package in 2003 will be inexorable with this budget. And that will be the third whip bang, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only thing that was exciting about these budgetary proposals is that both government parties have given up everything they have so far stood for, in the first place the ÖVP. I would ask you, Mr Klubobmann Khol, never to call yourself a party of the middle class and an economic party after what you have presented here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You are making fun of yourself, because what you are basking on is the most anti-economic budget that has ever been put on the table throughout the history of the Second Republic! [[An article of the newspaper "Economics" with the headline! "We certainly don't accept that!" Keeping in height]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer and capital!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am waiting for your appeal, Mr President, if he is announced to the public, I am waiting for the appeal of the representatives of the Economic Union who are supposed to represent those companies who are now being asked to cash out by this Federal Government in accordance with all the rules of art and have fewer opportunities to invest in the future of Austria, economic growth and employment. I am waiting for you, Mr President, if you really want to represent the companies! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, it is not only indifference that we need to talk openly about the burden on the economy today, because the next wage round is about to come, and I am already hearing the argument of the economy. She'll say: Unfortunately, since the state is so slumping on us, we have no room for any wage increases that would ultimately be granted to Austrian workers. Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, we Social Democrats have no interest in a anti-economic course of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The FPÖ has disbursed and ultimately lost the last budget for the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes, because they have noticed, Mr Westenthaler, whom they owe the high car taxes, to whom they owe the higher charges, to whom they owe the double price of vignettes, to whom they owe the higher electricity taxes, to whom they owe the self retention in the case of illness, in which the children have not even been left out. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler holds a sheet of paper in the height with the title "The Standard": opinion researcher: SP-chef Gusenbauer "tastrophic!"]] The people involved in small and medium-sized incomes in this country know very well, Mr Westenthaler, that you have betrayed them with your group, and that has not changed anything. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are now entering into the promise, the persons involved in small and medium-sized incomes are no longer subject to any further burden, then you should note: The most massive tax increases cover an income of 30 000 S gross, saying: 19 000 S net of assets and from a gross income of 20 000 S for pensioners. But this time too, you have not left out the references of smaller and medium-sized incomes, because there will also be an annual increase of 750 s if they do not [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 75 percent not affected!]] to provide your special model of pension provision. Now let's see how this model works! – Someone who netly earns 12 000 or 13 000 S in the month must pay your pension pension model at 14 000 S per year, so that he does not have to pay a tax increase of 750 S. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is adventurous! You don't believe that!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Faith Do you really think that someone with 12 000 or 13 000 S net a month can afford to make 10 percent of their total net income available for a third pillar of pension insurance, just to save 750 S tax increase? This is a bluff for the people involved in smaller incomes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, Mr Westenthaler, my request to you: Don't ever claim to be the party for people with lower incomes and for those who are diligent and disciplined, for all of these are now sacrificed to your party political interests. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (on a sheet of paper with the inscription) "Der Standard": Opinion researcher: SP-chef Gusenbauer "tastrophic!" Significant: Catastrophe!]] What can we conclude from this: They eventually abandon the middle class. In our social democrats, the average earners are very well removed, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] On the other hand, if you do not receive revenue, you are very generous. The introduction of the truck toll was planned for 2002. On Friday we had to hear that the introduction of the truck toll will be postponed again. This will result in a loss of revenue of 2.5 to 3 billion schilling. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's not true!]] For this there is to be a partial compensation of 0.9 billion schilling. There remains a significant difference. The story of the shift in the introduction of the truck toll is an infinite story, and pretty slowly we lose the belief that it will ever come under this government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! You spoke of reforms, of courageous, ambitious and committed savings in expenditure, and you invited the countries to contribute 30 billion schilling to budget recovery, 3 billion schilling in cash, the rest in the form of surpluses that invite to any Maastricht cosmetics. What's really brave about that? What is courageous if you deduct surpluses from funds that were forced to generate more revenue? What is ambitious about reducing 15,000 people in public service and not knowing how? If it's the nurses, it's the police, is it the teachers? Because it will not be possible to deal with the natural finish. And I already have the impression that not reducing a slimmer administration will be the result, but the zero wage round for the public service required by you. The public servants must pay for the fact that you are unable to make a real reform, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President Fassleven! I invite you to join our motion for a resolution today, which is against a zero wage round in the public service, and which also gives public servants their fair share of the economic upturn in Austria, as it is for all the other workers in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The expenditure needed today to stabilise growth and employment, expenditure on urgently needed training in the field of Internet jobs, urgently needed expenditure on research and development, the urgently needed expenditure for the future of our country, which will delay you to the post-2002 period. They eventually sacrifice the dogma of a point landing in 2002 many others. They announce that entrepreneurs will be partially compensated for by a reduction in corporate tax in 2003. The question is...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6772	Note time of speech! I'm asking for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6793	The question is, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen: Will workers be compensated for in 2003 as did employers, and is there a tax reform? How will that be? The Federal Chancellor thinks there is no one, Captain Sausgruber thinks there will be a new savings package.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6813	Please finish the closing sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6829	We want to have answered these questions, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Long-lasting applause at SPÖ.]] [[15:23]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6865	I announce that I have a request from Mr Gaugg, Mag. Kukacka and colleagues according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, in which a committee of inquiry is requested to examine political and legal responsibility in connection with the period from 1 January to 31 December. Years 1995 to 31. In December 1999, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs launched the award of public funds to promoters, including their networking with other public bodies. In addition, I would like to make the request made by five Members, also based on Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, to hold a debate on this request. The debate and the vote will be carried out in the light of this request following the brief debate on the question at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6888	Now comes to answer the urgent question Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser's word. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e6910	Mr President. Values German chancellors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Gusenbauer! You will understand that I cannot give up your imaginative remarks, because if you had been serious and objective, you would have also said that what this Federal Government needs to do is clean up work due to a missing 30-year financial policy of your party. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we need a turning point in the Austrian financial policy today, then it was because it was your policy that led Austria to replace the final light of the European countries, which left Austria behind Greece, behind Spain, behind Ireland, behind Portugal. If there is a need for a change in financial policy, then because there has been massive international criticism of your financial policy – from the International Monetary Fund to the OECD to the European Union. If there is a need for a change in financial policy, then it is because it has been your finance ministers who have lost 144 million schillings every day in the last 30 years of the Austrian population, because Austria's state finances today are a rejuvenation case and because their financial policy results in a non-social financial policy for our children, for our grandchildren, for the next generations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This new federal government has said that we are ending this financial policy, we are facing a state-political responsibility. And it is also part of a reform government to say that we take our courage together and want to change financial policy in principle, we make public finances right, we are no longer making new debts. That must be the currency for this country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There could be no better time than the one we have now chosen, namely a time of high economy, a time of best economic key dates in Austria. This month alone has been reported again, with the unemployment rate falling again by 13 percent. We currently have about 150,000 people looking for work in Austria – a low record value; so little was it for a long time. We have record values in the field of export quotas, which booms the economy. We have record values regarding the investment rate, many companies invest in Austria, and the medium-sized economy of Austria itself invests to a very high degree. So if you don't do it in good times, then if the economy is booming, if the income situation is good, we'll fix the finances, then that'll never be the case again. If you were in the situation now, Mr Gusenbauer, to be able to take on a very good job, perhaps also in the private sector, where you earn a lot of money, and if you had previously bought an apartment and therefore perhaps made debt, you would now also say with the good job in the excellent income situation: Now I'm putting my finances in order and trying to repay my debts. And it's also in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This policy is supported by the Austrian population, how to see if we look at the latest surveys of the Market Institute: 47 percent of the Austrian population say they consider the restructuring of the state budget very important. 42 percent of the Austrian population consider the renovation of the household important. 71 percent say they would regret a failure by the government in this important task. In other words, the population knows that it is time for more house thinking also in financial policy, because everyone is clear, you can't spend forever more money than you take. It can't be a housewife, it can't be a company. That is why we need this change in financial policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You know, of course, that you know very well that it needs this turn, just like Professor. Van der Bellen, because the opposition, in conversation with me, has disputed that there should be this objective that it is desirable to achieve a balanced budget in Austria, because budget rehabilitation is not self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, but there is an inseparable link between state finances on the one hand and economic situation, the quality of life of the population on the other. In other words, we need to reorganise so that we can have full employment in Austria in the future. We need to reorganise in order to maintain economic growth in Austria. We need to reorganise so that we can effectively combat poverty in Austria and that we can have room for room to compensate for economic culprits in the future. We need to reorganise so that we can open up perspectives – for employees in Austria as well as for the economy. Finally, we need to maintain and improve the quality of life and the prosperity of the Austrian population. That's our job. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And that's why I think it's very bad to stand here and put the party policy before the matter. [[Na go-run at the SPÖ.]] Because to say that we agree with the objective, we believe that we must correct the finances, that we should strive for a balanced budget, but then simply say no to the proposed measures, that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder, Where's the proposal you've made? Where's your alternative? How would you clean up the budget in Austria? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They all want to burden them all, all the same!]] In contrast to you, we have managed to put on the table a very serious concept, a conception of social justice, fairness and economic far-sightedness, which consolidated 72 percent on the expenditure side. We have decided here – you all, at least the majority – a pension reform because we know that it is important to ensure the financial viability of the pension system. This also brings a brake on expenditure dynamics in this area. We have said that we want to fundamentally reform the administration in Austria. They accuse us of not indicating exactly how we want to do this. I mean, it would be inconvenient to do this today in detail, where the negotiations between Mrs. Riess-Passer and the Public Service Union with the clear objective of saving 10 billion schilling in public administration for 2002 – because we want to make a service administration from a sovereign administration because we want to make a service organisation for our citizens – start at this hour. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Who? Who? Tell me how!]] It is important to go into the negotiations with this objective, and it would be inconceivable and inconspicuous to the trade union today to put on the table the individual measures with which we should come to this objective, but, of course, it must be preceded by appropriate negotiations of this achievement. The same is true of social security, ladies and gentlemen. We have said that we want to pursue a clear objective here, we want to save 5 billion schilling in this area, while at the same time achieving greater social security in Austria. Mrs. Sickl and Martin Bartenstein set up a working group on Professor Mazal. Four working groups are currently meeting on behalf of Professor Mazal, and it would be inappropriate, unscrupulous and really not justified if we said politically today, so we want to do it – beyond the expert opinion, beyond professionally prepared proposals, which can be fixed at the moment and by the end of September. Therefore, you cannot expect the Minister of Finance to say beyond his responsibility, I will prescribe this course in the field of social security. But the objective is very, very clearly formulated and the commitment of this Federal Government is available here. We have agreed in the Government Convention to save up to 2002 in the Austrian Federal Railways and the Rail Infrastructure Society an amount of 3 billion Schilling. We are working, as you know, on a debt repayment programme, we want to reform the area of federal property, achieve a new management. That brings about 30 billion schilling for the federal budget. We will sell the federal apartments that hang on the financial unit, which represent a potential in the order of 25 to 30 billion schilling. We will be able to achieve more revenue through the sale of UMTS licenses than we have currently budgeted. And we will conduct arrondation sales in the Federal Forest area. In total, this is a program that should succeed in repaying debt in the order of 100 billion schilling by 2002. 100 billion Schilling debt repayment means, cautiously reckoned, that the interest burden can be reduced by at least 3 billion. These are all savings from the pension area over the administration, about social security, via the Austrian federal railways, rail infrastructure, through a debt repayment programme, savings that will be reflected in the resorts. On the federal side, in the individual department responsibilities we will save. Negotiations with my fellow ministers start next week, and I would like to thank my colleagues for being willing to take part in this process in the interest of the people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You know that we are currently in financial compensatory negotiations, where the countries are very, very constructive. The starting position is as follows: Give us, the countries, 15 billion schilling more of the federal government!, while we are now in the situation that the head of state Stix and the head of state Sausgruber are tasked with negotiations to close the existing gap between 25 and 30 billion schilling – money that the federal government wants from the countries. That is to say, the countries are willing to exercise their solidarity responsibility for the reorganisation of state finances accordingly. The countries are saying that the aim of the reorganisation of state finances is, and they are not turning on the way to this goal, how clearly the opposition is in doing so. The countries say the path is the goal, and they will assume this responsibility accordingly. And that's why I say a warm thank you already in advance, Mr. Stix, head of state Sausgruber and head of state Haider, with whom we have conducted the corresponding negotiations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is 72 percent of a budget renewal, 72 billion of about 100 billion, which we will represent on the expenditure side – through cuts in expenditure in our own field, in the federal sector, in the administration. And we have seriously considered whether we can show the remaining volume of 28 billion schilling on the expenditure side, whether we should consolidate 100 percent on the expenditure side. We turned every schilling on the expenditure side three times, four times, five times before we thought about the revenue side. But we have had a goal: We want to make this budget adjustment fair, we want to make it socially fair, and we want to make it economically balanced. [[Abg. Sword: Don't leave this impression, really not!]] That is why we have said that, in the final consequence, there is no way past the revenue side, and have done quite what Mr Gusenbauer has said several times – I can quote him from the "Öberösterreichische Nachrichten" of 26.8. –: Why should sources not also be opened on the revenue side? It could be possible to close gaps which have not yet been recorded in tax. It is not a question of scrapping, but of increasing revenue, says Mr Gusenbauer, among other things. And that is exactly what we have done, Mr Gusenbauer, by chaining a package on the tax side, which is able to bring more justice to the conclusion of the gaps, the asset, the foundation takes into account the obligation that the payment morale in the sense of payment itself and the punctuality accordingly increases. It is a package that also takes back benefits, a package which – and this, ladies and gentlemen, is important to us – does not include a new tax, a package that, with the exception of the truck tax, does not raise a tax rate, a package that does not affect 75 percent of the active workers, because it has succeeded in not meeting the people with an income below 30 000 S gross because it has succeeded in not meeting pensioners with a pension below 20 000 S grossto. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's not true!]] This means that 75 percent of the population will not contribute to the renovation of this budget, because we are concerned with social security. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the SPÖ: That is wrong!]] I say quite frankly to you that we are proud that it has succeeded in deliberately pursuing an objective in which those who cannot afford to be socially weak do not have to contribute to this budgetary reorganisation. I can still tell you how this package affects the population, because you have put a lot of examples in the urgent request. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser shows a desk.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Taferl Minister! Taferl classic!]] I think the population has a right to find out how their income situation changes: What was it like under the Federal Government until 1999, and what is it like under the new Federal Government? If you look at these numbers here, you see that a single parent with 25 000 S grosso through the tax reform, through the family package 10 000 S will have more net in the wallet. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: FPÖ voted against!]] [[Abg. Huber: You voted against it!]] [[Further violent calls to the SPÖ.]] You see that this mother has no burden to bear by fiscal consolidation, and you see that this mother will have an amount in the order of 72 000 S per year by means of an offensive measure by this Federal Government in 2002, namely by introducing the allowance for children. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And that's the difference, ladies and gentlemen: We succeed in the reorganisation of the budget, we succeed in...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7136	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand intermediate calls, but we need to reduce noise levels a little. This also applies to the next and next speaker in advance, because it is always a problem changing the pages. Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7155	Ladies and gentlemen! We will succeed in the reorganisation of the budget, the in-order bridge of state finances, and at the same time those who - relatively - will earn less, i.e. those with income below 30 000 S, net more in the wallet, because we have financed a tax reform 2000, a family package 2000 and this group will not now contribute to the renovation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This will enable you to propose a set of measures – the Parliament has the budgetary authority – with which we lead the Austrian tax system with a view to international conditions. When I got into office, I had a tax comparison made and asked to explain where Austria is in the international comparison. The result was – and this should give you the impression – that in the OECD comparison in Austria, we pay less capital taxes by 35 billion schilling. – With Social Democratic Finance Ministers and Federal Chancellors over the past 30 years! The result was that companies in Austria are less burdened by 40 billion schilling than the OECD average. – At Social Democratic Federal Chancellors and Finance Ministers! And the result was that we are 70 billion schillings higher than the European average in pay-dependent taxes. This means that the jobs in Austria are heavily burdened. And that was also the reason why this government has said in advance: We need the additional wage reduction! And it will come – as an offensive measure that is important for the economy and for jobs, for the labour market in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We also said that, of course, we also want to open up a perspective. That is to say, we are putting the state finances in order today, we are rehabilitating the budget and we can then open up a perspective for the population, whether entrepreneurs or employees. The example of child money, for example, will make Austria a world champion in family policy. And we are also proud of this: that we are not even an average or a whole rear, but that we are in the very first place in terms of family promotion! The families in this country are important to us, so child money will become reality in 2002. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means, on the one hand, a reduction in family or child benefits. In addition, there is also an offensive in the field of research and development and in the investment field, because we think it is very important that, where innovation is concerned, where the restructuring of our economy is going towards "new economy", we try to induce, trigger, support the economy, set up initiatives in the field of education, so that we can, with the money that the public, which the taxpayers provide for research and development, can also trigger investment on the enterprise side and thereby achieve a multipleisation of the economy so that jobs can be created in this modern, forward-looking area. Total: The package is socially balanced, is fair in the distribution effect, and it also shows a wide view for the economic location, because this economic location will of course benefit from a healthy state finances accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This allows me to come in detail to your questions: Question 1, whether there are time limits for the measures: I can assure you that there is no time limit for the measures to be taken, neither on the enterprise nor on the employee side; only exception: Truck tax, car tax on trucks to be abolished with the in-force road pricing. That is, temporary until the truck toll comes, there is this vehicle tax increase on trucks. Question 2 has been answered. Question 3: Planning Do you have a reduction in the corporate tax rate from 34 to 31 percent? Which compensations for taxpayers are planned here? If you look at the set of measures we have presented, you can see: The economy contributes to the renovation of the budget of 15 billion schilling. If we can reduce corporate tax from now 34 to 31 percent, and I think this is important because we have to take the next step towards a higher attractiveness of our business location compared to Germany, this means a reduction of 4.5 billion schilling; significantly more than 10 billion schilling remains structurally on the business side. If you look at the effects in the workers' sector – I could describe them; with an income below 30 000 S gross, there is no effect! – it is very clear who is making the contributions to the reorganisation of the budget. The question of social balance has therefore been answered to me. Question 4, Herbert Sausgruber, how do I interpret him: I should like to point out that it is not the primary task of a Finance Minister to interpret a highly valued head of state. I can only say: We want to clean up first, and then we want to give the Austrian economy and the Austrian workers a perspective! Question 5: Reducing the corporate tax rate – socially fair? has already been answered. Question 6, Capital income on foundations: Of course, we want – and this is contained in this package – to tax capital income in the foundation with 12.5 percent. Now only 25 percent of the tax is taxed on a withdrawal from the foundation. So we do not increase the tax rate, but we change the time of taxation: 12.5 percent in the Foundation, while taking one more 12.5 percent. This is certainly an essential, solidary contribution of those who have packed their money into the very attractive foundation solution in Austria. If you say this is discrimination against the small saver who has to pay 25 percent, I can tell you: It was Minister of Finance Lacina who introduced this in 1993! You would have had seven years to correct that. It's us who do this and don't talk about it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eigentor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Which party was he from?]] ==References== Question: Sales profits from foundations are also to be taxed at 12.5 percent. Question 8, Inheritance tax, whether circumvention is possible in the case of basic assets in connection with savings books: That is absolutely not true! If you look at the case law of the Verwaltungsgerichtshof, you know that hidden land grants are of course also taxable. It's going to be done like that. Question 9, whether it will soon be necessary for foreigners in Austria to pay capital income tax: In our view, this is not the case, that is, it is being introduced by us, because we believe that this is an important equality between foreigners in Austria and the resident who makes savings. Question 10 concerning the planned abolition of the investment exemption: How will this further worsen the profitability of real capital investment contributing to growth and employment compared to speculative investment in money? We do not see this as it is because economic assessments of the investment-free amount are very clear that the investment-free amount has resulted in the greatest amount of take-off effects and therefore the triggering of investments was no longer the case as it once was possible. As regards question 11 there is likely to be a misunderstanding because the annual commitment framework according to § 6 para. 2 of the Environmental Promotion Act. In other words, a reduction in the water management fund is not foreseen. In view of the excellent economic situation – as I explained earlier – we do not expect to have a negative impact on the labour market and on the construction industry from today's point of view. On the contrary! Rehabilitation of state finances is necessary in order to be able to obtain an attractive economic location in the future and to improve the quality of life of the population. Question 12, "Improved registration of functional allowances": How do we expect more revenue from 0,6 billion Schilling here, although these compensations are also fully taxed at the moment? Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard several times that there should be business outside the tax. Among other things, I was informed that there should have been no taxation of allowances in the ÖGB. That is, it is obvious in the best society that you act by the tax. In this respect, we also want to stop black money transactions here and thus collect taxes from the services as they actually do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Question 13: What are the reasons why the loss of the tax percentage should result in a tax increase of 4.5 billion schilling? The burden percentage of § 67 (3) StG is today very complicated to calculate bureaucraticly very complex, is not fair, so there is a normal taxation in this area for dismissal compensation, for comparative payments, for postpayments, which can, by the way, affect both up and down. In other words, someone who has earned more than this year pays less tax in the future with this normal taxation, but also the reverse case is of course possible. Questions 14 and 15: Are you planning the removal of the preferential tax on paid holiday compensation? That doesn't have anything with 13th and 14ths. To do monthly salary – I would like to stress this – because these are very sensitive discussions. The holiday compensation is also to be taxed quite normally, because there is a ruling from the Administrative Court which my predecessor should have done in the sense of acceptance and respect for Supreme Court judgments, which he has not done. Question 16, Derogation of half the amount of workers' redundancies, annual tax increase by 750 S. What will pension benefits look like? I can say: The 750 S of the employee's retirement allowance does not fall away, but they are converted into a pension benefit bonus. I consider this to be a very important attraction, which the Federal Government places in the field of own-retirement pension provision. We have so far had a model that has not been adopted at all because the premium was too low. Now we need 1 000 euros per year in personal care and will receive a state premium of 1 230 s. – A model with a return of almost 10 per cent, more attractive than any savings book, than many other claims and thus a fundamental reform to the third pillar, because the guarantee of pensions is quite, very important to us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Question 17: To what extent is an income earner who earns 70 000 S gross per month more burdened by the planned grinding scheme? To what extent is this a person who earns 40,000 S gross per month? The change in the rules for the general deduction amount does not affect workers with a monthly income below 30 000 S – as I have said – employees with gross income of 40 000 S monthly will pay approximately 298 S for this title, such with 70 000 S income in about 42 S monthly more wage tax. Question 18, tax increase on a pension of 25 000 S gross per month by the planned grinding scheme from 20 000 S. The introduction of the pension scheme will increase the monthly wage tax of a pensioner by 379 s at 25 000 S gross pension. Questions 19 and 20: When and by what measures do you plan to implement social justice in the field of agricultural support in the light of social justice? In this context, the large farmers and landlords are also addressed. I can say here that I have had several discussions with Mr Molterer and that it is our common concern to achieve a social levelling of agricultural support, because we are aware that today 40 percent of agricultural support goes into 10 percent of farms, while vice versa, 40 percent of farms, the farmers, the smaller farmers only 10 percent of the support. That's a common will. But I can also tell you: If we were to do this in isolation in Austria, we would have to give up very large amounts from EU co-financing. That is to say, a financial damage to Austria would be the consequence. We have therefore agreed to try to bring about this change in Europe, both at the level of agriculture ministers and at the level of finance ministers. I must not answer the question 21 – social security – as not in my area of execution. I would ask you to consult Mrs Sickl and Mr Bartenstein accordingly. On the question 22: The announced reduction of 15,000 employees in the public service is a question which is currently being negotiated by Mrs Vice-Chancellor with my State Secretary Dr. Finz. This is not the subject of my department's execution. Questions 23 and 24 are raised in excess of 10.9 billion schilling funds, which are exhausted: They doubt that this would be an expenditure-side measure. I can only tell you: Watch the revenue page! The revenue remains the same, they remain constant, they do not increase. If the revenue remains the same, it can only be an expenditure-side measure. Question 25, Contribution by the countries to fiscal consolidation: 30 billion schilling: I have already answered this question with my statement on financial compensation, which has not yet been completed. Question 26: How much is the share of one-off budget consolidation measures? I say as little as possible, and ask for understanding that it is not until we can present the federal financial laws 2001 and 2002 to the House with its budgetary sovereignty that we can also say in concrete terms and in detail how high the one-off measures are. Question 27, planned increase of the car tax on trucks in connection with a further postponement of the truck toll. This is a question of the execution of Mr Schmid. I have, however, repeatedly stressed – and there are decisions by the Federal Government – that the truck toll should not be postponed, but that we feel it is a matter of justice to introduce such a measure in the truck sector, in the light of the increase in the motor insurance tax, because we certainly have a deficit here from the costs caused by heavy traffic in Austria. On questions 28, 29, 2 per cent of linear expenditure for 2001; it is required: Where is there a set of priorities here? I should like to point out that it is a matter of concern to us only if it is possible to consolidate the budget on the expenditure side: through structural reforms, through task reforms, including the relationship between cities, municipalities, countries, the federal government and the Federal Government. That is why we try everything on the expenditure side first. This two-percent discount is also to be explained. We will also ensure next week at the beginning of ministerial negotiations that a set of priorities can also go hand in hand with this procedure. Question 30: What measures are being taken in the fields of schools and universities? I am very grateful on this occasion for the fact that you are clearly giving me a comprehensive competence: from the social sector to the economic resort through the transport resort now also to Mrs Gehrer's colleague. I should also like to reject this question in the area of execution and ask that she be sent to Mrs Gehrer. How should – Questions 31 and 32 – be financed by the offensive programme for research and development? What we have presented in the reform dialogue – on the expenditure side, on the revenue side – includes an offensive package in the field of research and development and in the investment field in a scale of at least 10 billion schilling for this legislative period. I believe that this is an enormously important contribution, an extremely important initiative that is being put in place here, in the direction of remodeling our economy towards "new economy" and thus towards job creation in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Question No 33, by Mrs Gehrer. Question 34, whether the Coalition Convention and the announced additional expenditure are still valid: I think I've already answered that. This Federal Government will take offensive measures: In addition to wage reductions of 15 billion schilling, the introduction of child money as the most important family policy measure and the increase in research and development resources, and thus, of course, constitute a coalition agreement. Question 35: Will the package of budgetary consolidation measures proposed by you reduce the tax rate? Through a consolidation package, the tax rate, as you have correctly recognized, cannot decrease. Question 36: Would you call an increase in the tax rate on GDP the tax stop announced by the Federal Government? We understand that, on the one hand, no new taxes are introduced, and on the other hand no tax rates are raised. We believe that it is very clear that this is not a burden on the population, especially as 75 percent of the population are not affected. Perhaps in connection with this, an example that I could not present to you for your pleasure: [[The speaker holds a Taferl in height]] What is the income situation of the population in the new Federal Government, how was it in your time? – People have net more in the wallet! That's important to us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] On the question 37: According to the Austrian economic research institutes, the effect on the Austrian inflation rate is estimated to be between 0.4 and 0.5 percentage points due to higher fees. Question 38, ÖBB/rail infrastructure company. – This has already been addressed by me. Question 39: How will the structure of personal income distribution in Austria, presented in income resolutions, change on the basis of the overall consolidation measures in budgets 2000, 2001, 2002? Again: Since the low to medium incomes, the earnings of up to 30 000 S gross are not affected by the tax measures, it can be assumed that the net income distribution in Austria will improve. That is to say, the wealthier, the more powerful also make a correspondingly greater contribution to the reorganisation of the budget, which is also consciously planned. Question No 40: To what extent will the income benefits from tax reform 2000 be reduced by the tax measures you are planning for 2001/2002? Accordingly, the benefits of the 2000 tax reform for small and medium-sized incomes will remain fully preserved, with higher incomes – I give you the right – these benefits will be reduced. With smaller incomes – this is very good to see again –: 10 000 S net more for a single parent with 25 000 S gross. That remains so, it is important to us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Question No 41: What measures will you take to reduce the high level of tax residues? You see that the package we have presented contains a claim interest rate, i.e. who has a liability to the covenant, will get it interested, who has a claim, will also get interest. This will be a massive contribution to getting payments in full and in a timely manner. We will also do everything we can to prevent abusive design measures – for example, in the field of sales tax – as well. We have been holding long discussions here at the level of the Finance Ministers in ECOFIN and have made proposals on this from Austria. We will also increase the number of employees from 105 to 500 at the moment, because we are restructuring ourselves internally and we are a very big concern ourselves – as you obviously are. Last question – What measures will be taken You're fighting black entrepreneurship? The fight against undeclared work in its broad form, such as non-declaration of taxable income and turnover, non-registration of social security, illegal foreigners' employment, unauthorised labour leave and much more, will try to negotiate with Martin Bartenstein in the same way as we have a very controlled body in the field of foreign employment with customs administration. This is what we are trying to do, in fact, to ensure that there is no passing of the tax. Once we've negotiated this, I'll be able to introduce it to the House. Ladies and gentlemen! In total, we have a package of social justice, a package of fair distribution, a package that is significant and relevant to the economic location, a package with a corresponding perspective for workers and the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7406	For business treatment, Mr Klubobmann, Prof. Van der Bellen, wishes to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7428	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Grasser, I do not hesitate to listen to you. You have now spoken about 40 minutes, about 20 minutes of which were dedicated to answering the actual request. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: So what?]] I know that the Rules of Procedure provide that the Minister's reply should take 20 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You have decided the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It comes up to the questions!]] I would just like to point out that I do not want to see the German Chancellor Schüssel, whom we, of course, like to hear, also take 40 minutes and the representative of the smallest opposition party comes sometime at 5 p.m. when, of course, the media coverage has long been done. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oberzensor!]] I would just like to say this carefully before it gets that far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this a dangerous threat?]] [[16:04]] Notice of applications for the establishment of an investigation committee
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7528	Ladies and gentlemen! I have announced that I have now received two more requests for the setting up of committees of inquiry, namely a request from the Socialist Group, tabled by Mr Brix, on the subject of the following question: Contracts and project promotions of the Federal Government towards the Euroteam Group to examine, by taking into account the files of all the ministries and other federal institutions concerned in connection with the subject-matter of the investigation, all matters of legal and political responsibility, and a request from the Greens, submitted by Mr Öllinger, Kogler: Investigation Committee to examine political responsibility for (missing) control in connection with the award and processing of public contracts to the Euroteam Group, procurement, resolution, results, any intervention, subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! Since a debate was also requested in writing on these two requests, if no objection was raised, I would encourage without prejudice those procedures which we have also elected in mid-December 1999 when several requests for the setting up of committee of inquiry were made on the same or related issues, namely a common debate, each group presents a first speaker with 10 minutes speaking time, each group a second speaker, if desired, with a speaking time of 5 minutes, a maximum speaking time of 15 minutes. This was the process of December 1999. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Agreed!]] As this is not explicitly regulated in the Rules of Procedure, I ask: Is there any objection? - That's not the case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not from us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Not from us!]] Then we'll do that.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7583	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7627	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance has rightly shown this Taferl here, but he has forgotten to mention that on 17 November, he was in a position to do so. The FPÖ voted against this on June of the previous year and that in reality only the SPÖ and the ÖVP were in favour. [[the speaker takes the Taferl from the government bank used by the Minister of Finance and shows it to the plenary]] [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[The speaker put the Taferl back.]] And if the Minister of Finance has said in his reply that he now has to do with cleaning up work, he will probably have to "clean" some of the ÖVP, because it has been involved in it over the last 30 years and has also voted in favour of each budget accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: No, not for 30 years!]] You have to make this clear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact is that the European Union did not demand a zero deficit from Austria, but – this is also a fact – that it was the last government to prove that it could reduce the re-indebtedness extremely. And this should be mentioned in the middle of the order here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! I understand, of course, that you are also making a side swing on the ÖGB, but I'm sure I'll hold on – and that's what you can best check – that the ÖGB has made the advertisement for non-paid taxes. When we got on it, we adjusted it. However, I have another case from Styria in the ear that has affected the head of the FPÖ, where there have been very dubious tax transactions a few years ago. So I think you should leave the church in the village. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Finance has also quoted Mr Gusenbauer. If he were a homeowner, he would be offered a better job in the private economy, then he would also pay back his debts more quickly. That is true, and it is precisely because of this that social democracy says that the more powerful people should also make a greater contribution to the budget. Therefore, Minister of Finance, I do not understand why you have stopped half the way with those who can actually afford it. The need for fiscal consolidation has never been disputed by us. The way there is the decisive one, and that is why we are actually dealing with this urgent request today. I hope that, in addition to what you have said here, you will actually comment on the questions in the context of a written answer, because as a number you have not been responsible for them in the room. I just wonder how in a few weeks you will be giving a budget speech on all these areas. That is why you are responsible and will have to define this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, from today's point of view, many things are not clear, otherwise the Federal Chancellor would not have said last Friday that much will be clarified in the next few days and that the relevant documents will also be on the table. From today's point of view, you can put one clearly in the room: Most of the people involved are small and medium-sized incomes, skilled workers, not only temporarily, such as businesses, but permanently. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not true at all! That's not true at all! Where? Where?]] Listen! You'll hear that. Even if you receive food and drinks separately in the inn, it is an invoice you pay. And so already today workers have made a very nice contribution to this state budget. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because of your debts!]] Because of our common debt. – Let us remember: higher car taxes – this is "only" 1 300 s per year for a middle class car; [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything because of your debts!]] Autobahn-Vignette: 450 S in addition; electricity tax: for an average budget 520 S per year; contract for cooperative dwellings: 5 000 S for the first contract signature; additional charge for a new passport: additional 460 S; additional charge for the new driver's licence: 100 S; additional charge for the new identity card: 460 S. The tobacco tax, the Melange and the Wiener Schnitzel – the prices for all of this have already increased, and we are facing new permanent burdens. [[Some of the ÖVP's representatives stand between the bank lines and speak aloud.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Unheard of how it goes!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of the speaker) Jealous!]] If you look at the facts put on the table by the Minister of Finance, and if today has been put back into the room that all incomes under 30 000 S are not affected, you, Mr Finanzminister, will not be able to disprove us from the materials present today, for example by halving the general amount of deposits, you will also be able to contribute to income from 4 000 S, because the negative tax will also be reduced for these groups by this measure, and this can be proved. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pension pension!]] And in my opinion, it should not be pretended as if it were just about income over 30,000 s. The 750 S, which you always like to compensate with the private pension provision, means, for example, with a small income of 12 000 S, that you have the 13th and 14ths. salary no longer has freely available, but in reality it has to be put into a pension provision so that you can not pay the 750 S, but manage it. In my opinion, this should also be put in the room clearly and clearly here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: But three quarters pay the state!]] We will see what it looks like in the absence of tax relief in the event of job loss, we will see what it looks like in the event of a loss of tax advantage when claims arising from the service relationship. That's just what I'm doing. We had to file labour claims of more than a billion Schillings last year. And since the tax change will also affect this group, one should not pretend to be just earners over 30 000 s. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What about the question of co-insurance? Are the summer noises silent here, or is this still under the title "social security" in space? What about the question of the taxation of invalidity pensions? Has this been just a summer theme or does it come back to the table in a few days under the title "social security"? Federal Minister! We've been on the 14th. You spoke about it together in July, and you presented seven pillars. I asked you: Let's make an eight-pillar of your program! If we talk about tax justice, we talk about taxes, we talk about subsidies! I notice: The only subject where we say that 5 billion are inside is social security. What about the effect of taxes? What about the effect of the charges? [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: I'm waiting for your suggestions!]] I invited you: Let's talk about it! It seems that both of us did not find the time to talk about it in the summer, because the discussion with non-existent topics was obviously more important. The eighth pillar, taxes, taxes and their effect to check is simply missing in your presentation. Social confidence always takes place with you – at least I feel it – in the reduction, but never in the improvement of quality. Social security can also mean quality improvement, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You meant you were waiting for proposals. What about the tax residues? – This amounts to 34 billion outstanding taxes, which have already been paid, either by consumers or by workers by means of wage and income tax. What happens to the Black Entrepreneurs? – This amounted to 2 to 3 billion additional revenue. The road pricing was relocated. I can recall the debate here in the House when Mr Infrastructural Minister Schmid was asked what it looks like with research and development. That's where he said that's a priority. When asked where the money was, he said: I can't answer that. – This is also an open question. Ladies and gentlemen! There are far too many open questions to be able to actually assess whether the common objective of reducing budget deficits succeeds or whether it is just to hide new burdens for different groups of people. Growth, employment and contributions by performance cannot be solved by the fact that, for example, Mrs Vice-Chancellor said yesterday that there was a need to think about redeployment protection in the public service. Mr Fassleven! What does § 38 of the Civil Service Law say? – transfer possibilities. So why think about something that already exists? You should use it only if you want it, and not talk about it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to refer to the question raised by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Grasser, where the proposals are concerned, a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vergestnich and Mr Comrades, who have already been distributed. That's why I can focus on the core: We are talking about a socially balanced way of fiscal consolidation, because the budget is not only burdened by additional social policy expenditure. A consolidation package must also take into account the quality of the economic location. That's why it's going, and that's why it's worth a fight.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7859	The motion for a resolution on the principles of a socially balanced, forward-looking budget consolidation, which Mr Vergestnitsch has just referred to, is in writing, is properly signed – it contains ten points and will be distributed in writing – and is therefore under negotiation. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7945	The next speaker was Member of the Westenthaler. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e7966	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vergestnitsch! You have today given evidence that you are in fact unable to criticise this 2001 and 2002 budget, but that you have to resort to the 2000 budget. [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] I could now also go down and refer to your 1996 and 1997 tax packages in the amount of 100 billion schilling and say that the debt has nevertheless increased further. I do not take this into account, but I say to you one very concrete, Mr Vergestnich: You have also spoken about tax justice here today, and you think so. I say to you: You can't do that as long as you don't provide for tax justice in your own area and don't even clean up the scandal that we discovered at the Austrian Trade Union Confederation in summer. [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height.]] For years, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation paid Schwarzgelder to privileged employees. For 30 years, you have paid in double-digit millions. You've already admitted that. There is a corresponding criminal charge, and you now have to pay the tax. Any small Austrian, every small taxpayer should have received criminal proceedings in this case, should have paid for it, would have received a tax procedure. For 30 years, you have passed the wage tax, past the social security paid black money. You have to expose this scandal first, then you will become credible again. [[Abg. Silhavy: A scandal is that you permanently put wrong things into the room!]] This credibility has not been given before, Mr Vergestnich. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Black money in the union! And I'm telling you, it's not over for a long time. We have documents across all trade unions: Metallurgical union, art union, and finally a criminal adjudication of the chemical worker union to the house, the criminal adjudication of a long-standing central secretary of the chemical workers union against the chairman – against his own chairman of the chemical workers union! – including a fine for wage tax evasion. These are the real points! Before you have not explained this, you have no right to talk about tax justice in that country, Mr Vergestnitsch. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Gusenbauer said that the average income in Austria is heavily taxed. He said a few minutes later in his speech himself that we had been careful not to tax under 30 000 S in the case of active incomes and under 20 000 s in the case of pensioners and to carry out no further grosser burdens. They know that the Austrian average income is well below the 30 000 S, and that means that we – and this is our credo, and we have managed to do so, thanks to this Federal Government – simply do not burden 75 percent of the Austrian population through this budget timetable. That is the goal, and that is the success of the government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I'll answer your invitation for a moment. You have said that you – in the SPÖ – obviously mean, because the place will not be enough at home – the average earners are well removed. – I can only warn everyone, even the average earners! Because if these come to you and become a party member, then it may be that they have to get a note and make their contribution to the renovation of your 350 million-million-Parteicassen-Desasters, because they even burden the small SPÖ members. These must be in the cash register for your disaster! And you say you want to protect the little people! No one believes this anymore, Mr Gusenbauer. This invitation is really to be enjoyed with caution. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have created a socially just budget, showing a new way: End of further debt, no tax increases, no tariff increases, no mass tax increases. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] 75 percent of the population are not affected, and the small people are not only not burdened, but they benefit from wage tax reduction, family money and even lower interest rates due to the fact that we are putting an end to debt making. This is a gratifying record of this government. I say quite clearly, because there have been different interpretations: Thank you to the Minister for Finance for this socially just budget creation! And one thing is perfectly clear: This budget, this budget roadmap clearly bears the handwriting of the cabinet bowl – Riess-Passer 1. Congratulations and warm thanks for this budget schedule that has been successful! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have also done one – you have forgotten that quite: We are saving where the population demands it, namely the state itself: for example, the political pensions. There will be an increase in the pension contribution, and this will mean a loss of income for politicians. That will be a loss of income – applause also from the SPÖ, which is good – and we will also recommend corresponding contributions to the chambers. [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with individual SPÖ representatives]] We will also be pressing for a savings contribution there accordingly. But what you are doing with this special meeting today is a truly transparent maneuver, Mr Gusenbauer. That's a fact. After 30 years of chancellors and finance ministers, you have the responsibility for 1,700 billion schilling debts, but you have not put on the table any alternative concept at all today, no idea, any alternative. [[Abg. Swimming: 'Cause you're not watching!]] You have only one sentence, the You've been saying it again and again for days, and now it's becoming a boomerang. You have said several times – I have a whole documentation about it – that you want whole solutions instead of half things. Everyone should make his contribution, that is, everyone. The credo that the SPÖ has had for years, namely to burden everyone equally, that is to say the little ones, Mr Gusenbauer will continue. But that's where we say: No, stop! The small people are no longer burdened with us, Mr Gusenbauer! Remember that and write this also behind the ears! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But you have ever bigger problems. The party is sinking into the scandalous sum – Bank Burgenland, Euroteam – and today – I am already eager to do so, we will make a request to set up an investigation committee for the entire funding practice, to the Euroteam scandal, with which we will bring light into the dark of socialist grants of funding in recent years. We're still going to encounter a lot of things – I'm already excited about that – because I'm confident. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! Today's distraction maneuver is perfectly clear. The opinion researchers say – I quote from the "standard" – that is unwarranted: "SP-chef Gusenbauer catastrophic." [[The speaker holds a newspaper section in the height. He carries the title: Opinional researcher: "SP-chef Gusenbauer catastrophic".]] Now you're going to say these are the opinion researchers, they've never been good at us, and that's all terrible. But, Mr Gusenbauer, there are also comments from you, well-known personalities like the writer Haslinger, who said: The crisis of the SPÖ is fundamental. She has lost the workers – for a social democratic party the mother of all disasters – she has lost the intellectuals and the youth. She'll have to go a thorny way. It's also talking internationally. In the daily newspaper "Die Dolomites" of 22. August says: SPÖ hardly conveys leadership or core competence, but – at the few appearances he makes – Gusenbauer conveys inappropriate hardness and overcomes believed party rhetoric. – We heard that today. I could bring you another quote of the past few weeks, for example: The SPÖ is still in a kind of post-nacosis after fall from the cuckoo nest. – The Gusenbauer balance sheet is catastrophic – across the leaf forest. Now you're gonna say, well, that's what the media wrote, that's also wrong. But even in its own party there are such statements, for example, of the more and more often reported ex-SPÖ peak politician Androsch. On the question: How do you assess the state of SPÖ? Androsch says: Well, he's pathetic. - That's what Androsch says. Mr Dörflinger suggests that you not become a top candidate for the next election. And Mrs Annemarie Reitsamer – I don't know where she is today – says: It's no longer nice how this party leader agreed. I'm more than bad. I've been to the SPÖ for my life, but that's how the party is going down. - That's what your colleague Reitsamer says. And Johann Hatzl from Vienna brings it to the point and says: Optically, we've become a loser's party. That's the problem. And in order to divert from all these points, you are using Parliament today for a special session, which is completely unnecessary because the budget timetable is long standing. The citizens have also recognized this, and they will recognize it. That's not how you get out of this depth, Mr Gusenbauer. That's quite clear, too. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is an existential permanent crisis of the SPÖ, which is now to be transformed into Parliament. If there is a political weather report, a meteorological analysis of politics, then one could say about the permanent bad weather period of the SPÖ: A socialist low above Austria does not come up either in the back or in the front. – This is really the balance sheet when you look at the situation from the meteorological side. It is dramatic overall, and therefore we also recognize the sense or nonsense of this special meeting. However, I am very glad that we are today making a joint request against the efforts of the Czech Republic in connection with the Temelin nuclear power plant. I am very glad that the Federal Government took place on 29 July. A clear attitude has been expressed in August, namely that compliance with the safety and environmental standards is a priority, and if they cannot be demonstrated, there is no consent from Austria to the energy chapter in the enlargement negotiations. This is a clear sign and also a clear warning to the governments, especially in the Czech Republic, that we do not like the fact that we do not accept a threat to the Austrian population. That is why it is good for the Austrian Parliament today to support the attitude of the Federal Government with a four-party proposal and to adopt a clear, clear attitude against the operators of Temelin. I'm very happy about that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Christoph Kotanko from the daily newspaper "Kurier" brings it to the point – I quote: "For 30 years the SPÖ placed the chancellor and the Minister of Finance, but the redistributorism followed hardly any actions. Now a FPÖ Finance Minister is undertaking what the SPÖ should have dared. The little man is spared, essential...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8107	I'm asking for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8122	... Tax rates will not be increased." – To the extent editor-in-chief Christoph Kotanko of the "Kurier". So it is: We're the little people, the workers talking!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8152	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Same time of speech, so 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8174	Ladies and gentlemen! Re-government means ending debt policy for this government to ensure full employment and the pension of young people in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We've been on the 14th. The reform dialogue was launched on 1 July. The reform dialogue 1 – still without opposition – has shown our great joy: The objective of zero debt in 2002 is to be achieved, and there is consensus on this. ==References====External links== September with the gentlemen of the opposition showed that there is much agreement that the objective can be achieved by means of the proposed funds. There was some criticism of the details of one or the other, but the way is right, a balanced package is ahead, and I remember the public, the Parliament has never been so early – before the budget decision in October! – knew how to achieve the objective of financial policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Swimming: No details!]] Today's special meeting as the sharpest weapon of the opposition, requested during the meeting-free time – after my memory there were only three times since 1983 – is actually stuffed today. Because the special session wanted to show, the government does not know how it will achieve its goal – no new debt. [[Abg. Gradwelt: You have proved this!]] On Friday last week we put the measures on the table with great approval. [[Abg. Grade: Which one? Which one?]] Some do not understand them, because they cannot understand what they read and hear, but those who understand things know that the goal is achievable, we make it, and thus today's special session has a new meaning. We can tell the public that re-government means an end to debt and full employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is actually moving to see how much willingness there is to solidarity among people in this country. Because I've only experienced all summer and even now in the discussion: Keep going! Do it like that! You're on the right path if it's only socially just! – And it is socially fair, because it makes its solidarity contribution to the workers just as the farmers, the economic operators just like the pensioners, because everyone knows that a good budget policy secures the location. And that is also our understanding of economy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Never before has there been so much willingness to show solidarity, that has already been said by previous speakers. [[Phone call at the SPÖ: Who's with who?]] The fact that the waistband of course tightens the belt is clear. But I can only say, on the subject of how the countries have put their contribution on the table without taking up a lot of work: Shut up in front of the countries! And I can only say, on behalf of our political groups, how the communities have put their contribution on the table: We thank you for this solidarity, and we thank you for the trust of our people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I would remind you that the Austrian People's Party is a People's Party... – Where is it? At your own urgent! – Ah, you are holding a service meeting with the Secretary-General on the reduction of your debts! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer is sitting at Abg. Bures and is deeply in conversation with her.]] I congratulate you! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I think it is actually part of the minimum position of a parliamentary group that calls for a special session by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and then makes a special meeting to be present. But if I look into your ranks now, then I see – highly valued – only as many sitting here as after the next election will still sit here if you continue, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The special session has, however, enabled us to expose the keywords and the atrocities propaganda as what they are: an atrocity propaganda. There is no redistribution from bottom to top! There is no increase in the savings tax! There is no taxation of the 13th and 14ths. Wages, and there's no more loads as you painted them on the wall in the workers' election campaign! Actually, you are sad that the propaganda object has come to you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! So today we have had the opportunity – and our Minister of Finance has done it masterly – to explain what the 2001 and 2002 budgets will look like. However, we want to hold this meeting for a further, equally useful purpose, perhaps even more urgent, when we consider the interests of the Austrian population. You know that the Temelin nuclear power station is about to go to the network without any discussion with our experts and without dialogue with our Environment Minister. There is fear in the population, and we politicians of all political groups are concerned that something irreversible is happening there, which could cause much regret. We therefore want to use this meeting today to reach a close of the shoulder, to a close of all parties behind this over-party concern of our government. It is due to a visit by Land Captain Pühringer with all four fractions of his country day here in Vienna, triggered by the concern of the population, also caused by the demonstrations of the population, that we want to strengthen our government together in the fight against an unsafe nuclear power station. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One thing I would like to say to our Czech neighbours: It was not very wise to say quite simply in this situation where people's concerns are concerned: We agree with the sanctions of the European Union and do not speak a word with the Austrian Minister for the Environment. – I think that's really stupid. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that the consensus of all four parties was successful in this special meeting, and I would like to thank all four environmental speakers – Mrs Sima, Mrs Glawischnig, Mr Schweitzer and Mr Kopf – for being able to make a joint request today. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Environment speakers!]] Right, environmental speakers, Mrs Petrovic. Mr President. I therefore bring in according to § 55 para. 3 and § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act a motion for a resolution by Mr Khol, Mr Westenthal, Mr Sima and Mr Glavischnig, and would like to make the essential points in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is the resolution by the honourable Members on Austrian concerns in connection with the planned start-up of the Temelin nuclear power station. Seven points are essential. First: We want an appropriate dosage of international projects to get out of nuclear energy. Secondly, We want the Federal Government to do everything to solve the open issues of safety before the nuclear power plant goes into operation. We also want – and I believe this is a very important point – to agree to the provisional conclusion of the energy chapter in the Czech Republic's negotiations for accession to the EU only if current safety standards are guaranteed. Thirdly, we want to be involved in an environmental impact assessment so that we can talk to ourselves so that our concerns can also be cross-border. Fourthly, we want to work together with all the other EU countries, in particular with the neighbouring countries concerned. Fifth, we also believe that the Czech authorities should be reminded of the need to clarify the still open security issues, especially as regards the threat of earthquakes. Sixth, the last point: An on-the-spot investigation of the nuclear power plant by an independent group of experts. Finally, we want all legal possibilities to be used up so that this nuclear power is treated in a competitive and non-privileged manner, and that we do not receive such Czech nuclear power exports in Austria either. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the request in its core points. A unanimous adoption of this proposal would be a clear signal, a clear aid to this all-Austrian concern: not an unsafe Temelin nuclear power plant!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8348	The motion for a resolution referred to was distributed in writing, has a sufficient number of signatures, has been explained in the key points, is therefore for debate and will be voted at the end of this debate. It shall be annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8410	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Professor Van der Bellen. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8431	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Minister and Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr Khol's path, which we already know enough from the past, is, I believe, still a little hasty with regard to the budget questions we are discussing today to express it mildly. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And love!]] I will come back to that in view of the fact that the entire expenditure page is still completely underexposed and unknown. However, I can only support your pathos with regard to Temelin, Mr Khol, if not yet. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You will also get my pathos at the budget!]] First of all, I would just like to say: There is already a four-party proposal, Mr Khol, and I assume that all those present in this House support this four-party proposal. There is this four-party proposal, after four speakers of the parties present had negotiated it on the morning and at noon, and the government proposal, the proposal by the two government parties of yesterday, has changed considerably. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Added!]] Mr Westenthaler, I must mention this because you, Mr Westenthaler, said that there is a four-party education in favour of the government proposal. Of course that's not right! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We have now found a consensus on a four-party formulation, and I only hope that this time – this time – this will be useful. I cannot hide, Mr Khol, that I am losing patience in this regard. I have to say the following: Today's questions are important, budget issues are important, but you are right, of course, if I have understood you correctly, if you say that the question of Temelin is a quality sui generis. If we agree – I am not sure if we have done so – that this is a life interest of Austria and not any important problem; for example, if the amount of amortization is minimized from 30 000 S or 32 000 S or 35 000 S, this is of course important for many people, but it is not a life interest of Austria. With the appropriate pathos, I ask, Mr Khol: Is today's four-party application sufficient? Should we not even put a gesture towards the Czech Republic, which we have been proposing for a long time in the past, but always unsuccessful? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Greens and I propose all the serious things to say to our Czech neighbours: We understand you have a problem with electricity production. We admit, it is primarily in the interest of the neighbor of Austria that Temelin does not go into operation, that Temelin does not go into operation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: And the people, the Czechs?]] It is not about the fact that it has higher standards that it may reach western standards. All experts tell us that Temelin cannot reach these standards. Yes, then we are honest and say: Friends, we're making you an offer you can't refuse. We'll give you a power plant, a gas power plant. Should be that it costs us 3 billion schilling or 5 billion schilling. But this is an insurance premium, a life insurance premium that is not inappropriate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I also invite you to consider this seriously. I know of course about the Pro and Contra, the For and Against such questions, I know that this could be a precedent et cetera et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] But if it is a life interest of Austria, if that is such an important question, then Austria must also be worth these 5 billion. The Greens are prepared to support a corresponding solidarity contribution on the tax side of the Austrian Federal budget for this one-time insurance premium, which is not an ongoing issue. [[Abg. Aumayr: They have a surplus of electricity, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. May. They have a surplus!]] – Is that an offer? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We won't turn you out of it. We will support this massively if you are prepared to accept this request, which my colleague Eva Glavischnig will then formally make. One thing I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups: Either it is actually a life interest of Austria, which we are talking about here, but then we also have to send a signal that can be sufficiently reflected and taken seriously outside the Austrian borders, or it is a diplomatic question, like any other one in which we have some support from Parliament, and if it does not work well, you can do nothing either. If we take Temelin so seriously, then this must also be worth us in the money bag, in schilling amounts. This is a signal that the EU will not be able to ignore, or the EU-14, to be more accurate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 50 percent of my speaking time, if I understand this mysterious clock properly, I still have.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8565	Four minutes and eight seconds.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8580	Thank you. Mr Khol! You said on Friday there was a budget Rodeo or as always the official reading. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Reform Dialogue!]] – Reform dialogue, thank you. At the beginning it was rather a reform monologue, because after Schussel, Riess-Passer and Grasser had spoken, my knowledge turned off the microphone and the canvas for the journalists. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Be glad!]] My highly important comments – Mr Oellinger, at least, was satisfied with me – and my critical comments there were not perceived by the journalists. I don't necessarily call this a dialogue. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Then it was a trialog!]] - It doesn't matter. On Friday, Mr Khol, you claimed that there was a consensus. A consensus on what? - You didn't say that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A lot of approval and criticism, I said!]] – A lot of approval and a lot of criticism. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what I meant!]] – Have a lot of criticism It means me and other gentlemen, such as Leitl and Mitterbauer. But what I would like to say briefly, if I already have the opportunity to do so, is the Maastricht objective, which is important. The Maastricht budget is important. This is an important condition for any budget creation and, of course, the deficit should be reduced in a good economic situation. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] But you have not clarified the political priorities, the economic priorities and the social priorities. Our priorities – I only call three – are the following: Firstly, to take account of the necessary measures in the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Full employment!]] That means: Wage reduction now and not perhaps in three years. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's our goal too!]] How do you make this up-and-coming neutral? – May I remind you that for years now there has been a proposal from us for a rise-neutral, eco-social tax reform, which, moreover, is dedicated to the memory of Josef Riegler with a footnote, who, if I am not mistaken, was or perhaps is still an ÖVP member. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] – The Kyoto objective must be taken into account, at the same time the labour market should be reduced and a wage reduction should now be made. It's a non-stop thing. Second priority: Education, training, research and development are now to be expanded. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's ours too!]] Minister of Finance Grasser said on Friday that he had planned 10 billion somewhere. The documents you, not me, gave us on Friday show that the F&E quota is now 1.6%. But we all want, so I remember 2.5 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 2.5 percent we want!]] Thank you, Mr Khol. That was unanimous last year. That's why we don't miss 10 billion, but if you calculate it, 27 billion. Where is this additional financing of the R&D quota also in the enterprise sector, because there are major gaps? The third priority from a green point of view is a poverty reduction programme that deserves the name, and then we are ready to talk about a lot. Apart from the Socialists – I see my time running out – I am not satisfied with the measures proposed by Minister of Finance Grasser on the tax side, but I am not entirely dissatisfied either. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Satisfaction!]] Because in one point he took the right step. We all know – even the Social Democrats have discovered this today; but in the last 30 years, Social Democratic Finance Ministers have stated the tone – that capital taxation in Austria, The Effective Taxrate on Capital, calls it the EU Commission, is significantly lower than in the EU and the USA, which is known to be a highly socialist country, and the taxation of work is too high in international comparison. And as far as capital taxation is concerned,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8770	I'm asking for the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8785	... I say quite unpopular: Yes, this is a step in the right direction, even if it concerns Mr Prinzhorn and Mr Bartenstein, who are both the founders of the foundation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Gusenbauer did not understand! Explain it to him!]] – I am now speaking for myself and for no other party. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8824	The next speaker is Mr. Federal Chancellor. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8845	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First, to Temelin: This issue of life is crucial not only for Austria, Mr Van der Bellen, but, I believe, for the whole of Central Europe – I do not want to make it a problem of Austria or just an overly Austrian one. A safe, a less secure or an unsafe nuclear power plant can have the greatest importance for the living conditions, also for the working conditions and for the economic location of several countries, and therefore I thank you very much, as I say at the outset, for the back cover that has been provided by all four political groups today. I also say very clearly here that we need this support, because a government is only as strong as it is in the population and in Parliament. I do not regard this as party political support – you do not need to worry – but it is a matter of national priorities for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Temelin is not a hobby theme by anyone or the Austrian alone, but it is a problem regarding compliance with international standards. If we today demand a safety standard that meets the current state of the art in the European Union, then it is actually natural, and it is grotesque that the European Union regulates almost everything – the most recent example is a directive for animal husbandry in zoos or tractor seats in square centimeters – but it has not established a binding – at least – minimum standards for the protection of nuclear power plants by the hour. This is an issue for the European level, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Temelin is a question of the standards of democracy and also a question of the good neighbourhood, for if, for example, we are in favour of the Czech – I am in favour of this – of granting participation rights on our side of the border for a waste dump or anything else, then, as I believe, we are rightly demanding – that the Czech Republic too comply with what it has committed itself to in the accession partnership to the European Union, namely to sign the international agreement on the conduct of environmental impact assessments not only, but also to be ratified by Parliament. And what is being done here is not right! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Although the Czech Republic has signed, it is obvious that the Czech Parliament is waiting until Temelin is in operation, and only then will it be ratified. And I say quite openly, dear Austrians, who also listen to today's TV meeting, that's not an Austrian hobby, but it's about respecting good neighbourhood game rules and respecting the international credibility of a country. And in this respect we will not become soft, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Temelin is also a question of competition standards. Therefore, on your proposal, Mr Van der Bellen, I should like to say quite openly: The proposal, we pay the Czechs or others almost a replacement power plant, is not new. This proposal has already been made by Franz Vrannitzky and I, the Czechoslovak Republic at the time. The proposal has been rejected, it was insisted on Temelin. Today – and I say so very clearly – this proposal makes no sense because every energy politician will confirm to you that most of the electricity produced in Temelin is probably not intended for the Czech market but for exports. And since, I have to say quite honestly, I do not understand and certainly the people also lack the understanding of paying billions for the possibility of exporting electricity to the European Union at dumping prices. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It would also be a very remarkable change in the opinion of the Green Group, which is always very critical of this proposal at the time, to build almost caloric power plants – a gas power plant is a caloric power plant – with possibly international but also Austrian money. It would be wiser to invest in energy saving measures. That's a point you can talk about at any time, we're ready. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am therefore very grateful for the support of the House for this clear line of Austria towards the European Union, because I have discussed the issue of temelin and the standards of competition in my visit to the European Commission with President Romano Prodi and I have also received an understanding from the Commissioner responsible. We have engaged the Federal Republic of Germany, in particular Chancellor Schröder and Minister for the Environment Trittin, and at bilateral level we have written and addressed Prime Minister Zeman, Foreign Minister Kavan and Minister for the Environment Kuzvart, and the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil has also turned on the Czech President Havel. I would like to say quite clearly here that we do not want Temelin to go into the test operation and the network without a proper, internationally clarified environmental impact assessment and that the electricity may then be exported without regard to the competition rules. We want the highest standards not only for us, but for the whole of Central Europe and for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A final sentence on this subject: I am always trying to keep the choice of languages very calm and not emotional with the neighbouring countries, but I would like to reject one with great determination, namely the accusation that the Austrians or the Upper Austrian state government or the Austrian federal politicians are hysterical. – Ladies and gentlemen! We worry, some even fear, but certainly not hysteria. I would like to ask the neighbor to have a little more respect for the concerns of people. I don't want a Union, and I don't want a neighborhood where people's concerns are not taken seriously, ridiculed or hysteria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the contrary, it is not a question of blocking enlargement, for example: It is about speeding up something, namely the integration of the Czech Republic into international standards, understanding that security is inseparable to all of us and not to border stones. It is not a matter of keeping up and actually having nothing to do with accession, because in the end we are living in a world and should also work together to achieve these standards. This shows today's resolution, and I hope that everyone will agree, and I hope that this signal – that is ultimately – will really be understood in Prague. Thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now a few words about the budget from my point of view. I invited six weeks ago to the first reform dialogue in Hofburg, and we formulated the ambitious and very ambitious goal there for the first time, and we want to say in two years a so-called zero deficit, in German: no more debt. We, Karl Heinz Grasser, Susanne Riess-Passer, State Secretary Finz, that is, all co-negotiators, but also everyone else, knew at that time, that's going to be difficult, that won't lick honey, that won't be a PR event, as some have believed, a kind of Rodeo or a show – it won't be hard work at all. At the time – unfortunately, the opposition has not yet taken part – we have been able to dispute the objective: We want to pursue this goal, a zero deficit. And I'll tell you why: The most unsocial at all is to make new debts each year and thus cut off the scope for action over ever higher interest rates of the young generation. That's the point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now say to Mr Gusenbauer: Not a virtual landing in 2002 is the problem, but the problem we already have and that is dramatic enough is that we have to pay 100 billion schillings a year, which we should actually invest in all these things you mentioned, in education, in research, in infrastructure, in our security, in information and communication technology, in "new economy" and in location policy. We're missing this money. These interest rates are missing, we have 100 billion schilling almost predispositions from the past. The crucial position is that we turn this around. That is why we have now sought ways of achieving this in this second reform dialogue. Of course, these paths are not pleasant, I know that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8972	Federal Chancellor! I apologize, but the respondent has a target, and then the Rules of Procedure say that every speaker has 10 minutes at his disposal. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e8987	I very much hope that in the coming negotiations, which are not easy, with the financial compensatory partners, with the parliamentarians here, we will come so far with the individual ministers that we can really and honestly fulfil this ambitious goal. It would be important for our home country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9017	The next speaker is Mrs Kubitschek. Voluntary speaking time: Seven minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9039	Mr President. Minister! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A government's budgetary policy usually reveals the priorities a government sets, which are important to it, which initiatives it intends to take. In order to make this clear, last Friday the government invited the big reform summit. However, those who have expected of what the name promises have probably gone home a little disappointed, because instead of the major reforms announced, the only really concrete measure in the government's surprise package was tax increases of around 28 billion schilling. Where which reforms are being carried out and whether this is at all the case, this is still completely open. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also completely open how the government intends to make its announcement to reduce the announced 42 billion schilling of expenditure. And it is now entirely open, above all, what the government really wants to pursue in terms of social policy or economic policy. On the contrary: The longer this government is in office, the more one actually has the impression that it itself no longer knows exactly what positions it wants to pursue. It is clear that what it wrote six months ago in its own government agreement no longer applies today. At the time, the government began to call for a major offensive for the Austrian economic location. It has embarked on a major offensive for research and technology policy, for education policy. It finally wanted to achieve a reduction in additional wage costs, and it also wanted a reduction in the tax rate. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is completely different in the meantime. The government simply and simply missed the signs – from a planned offensive strategy into the hopeless defensive so to speak. In such a turnaround, of course, the question arises as to why. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the answer. In the meantime, the government has simply defined a new objective: It wants to achieve a zero deficit in just two years. And apparently this zero becomes more and more a sort of fetish for this government, because it really uses the zero anywhere it can only be. Zero investment in human capital, zero investment in research and development, zero investment in infrastructure, a pretty thick zero for the planned minus in additional wage costs. However, the tax rate originally to be reduced is a strong plus. It was quite high anyway, and yet the government has managed to push it up to an absolute record result. Ladies and gentlemen! We are living at a time when a massive conversion is taking place throughout the economy. The effects of the new technologies, the transformation from an industrial to a service, communication and information society actually bring rapid changes. This applies not only to economic and working life, but basically to the whole social life. As never before, therefore, it is a competition for know-how, a competition for human capital, for research to gain technology and innovation. It has probably never been as important as today to really invest offensively in precisely these areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These investments, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly come back a hundred times in the future. In such a phase of change, however, the government sees nothing but a zero deficit to reach its only political ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen! Every entrepreneur knows that there is also the right time for an important investment. A good entrepreneur will certainly not be afraid to finance a profit-making investment with foreign capital. Otherwise, he will probably go into bankruptcy quite quickly. Ladies and gentlemen! No one here claims that the objective of ambitious deficit reduction is wrong. It will only be the problem if a government raises deficit-spending for an absolute purpose. Of course, the EU stabilisation factor causes all EU countries to clean up their deficits. The only problem is that no other government – apart from ours – has so far been so presumptuous that to achieve a completely arbitrary objective, a sustainable weakening of the entire economic location has been achieved. So if the government, without a real need for it, sets the goal of achieving a zero deficit in just two years, just because it is in the noise of speed, then of course it has its price. Then there are large layers of the population being asked to check out, then a whole profession is made a scapegoat, and then the economic location of Austria is not promoted, but weakened, in the long term and sustainable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this price, ladies and gentlemen, we pay for a single reason: Because deficit-spending is misused for the purpose of self-scheduling a hyperactive government. Unfortunately, activity is not necessarily equivalent to efficiency, so the government is doing what it can best: a lot of noise around very little policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to make two more motions for resolutions. [[Quoted print version removed]] And the second request is:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9175	Debates of the European Parliament Kubitschek are sufficiently supported and both are under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mrs Zierler has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9201	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! What we have heard here in the last two hours has not differed from what we have heard in Austria in the last few weeks and months, what we have experienced, that is, a massive fundamental opposition without real facts, without real backgrounds, a policy aimed at basically saying no, a policy aimed at adopting, in principle, a negative attitude. What I have missed – today as well as in the last weeks and months – is to hear from you why the situation in Austria is so, why in Austria there is even the need for renovation. Why don't you ever address the 1,700 billion schilling debts? Why don't you hear about it? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Why do you forget that it is necessary if you want to make a responsible policy in Austria, even once again? We have heard Mr Gusenbauer on a live television show, in which he called for all – namely, all the population groups – to be burdened. He said that loud and clear. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not our policy. This is not the kind of new governance, and that is not the policy of the FPÖ, nor the policy of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the facts that we have heard, the figures are opposite, and I would very much like to give this to you once. Why don't you talk about the 2000 tax reform providing an average family – parents, two children – with a household income of 30,000 S a plus of 8 112 S? The 2000 family package means a plus of 12 000 S for this family! That is – you can look at it very carefully – in other words, more revenue for this budget. [[Keeping a table with the corresponding figures in height]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who rejected the FPÖ!]] [[Calls of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You don't need to scream so shrill, the numbers stay the same, even if you're trying to scream me down. It brings this package a plus of 20 112 S for an average family. Or let's talk about the pensioners. What do the pensioners know about the SPÖ? – Pensioners know the pension reforms. That means less, less, less. Despite all your promises, you have taken. Let's go from a pensioner with a monthly amount of 19 000 S: The tax reform 2000 brings him a plus of 4 050 S. That means – please, that's the numbers! – he's got 4,000 S more at the end of the year, he's got 4,000 S more available, more money to spend it, more money to make a nice life. That is the policy, that is the financial policy of this new government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would ask you to look at the figures and facts. And I'd like to give you something else: What you're doing in Austria is a panic, that's a fear, that's a policy of insecurity. I believe that this policy is no longer really up-to-date, because the people in Austria have now recognized what the truth is and what has been done for the people of Austria under this new government. They have recognized that our policy is again a policy for the people we are close to, whose lives we understand. People have recognized this, and your illness and your panic is not really coming. When you look at the election campaign that the Styrian SPÖ is leading, it becomes clear that this election campaign is dominated by a word, and that word means resistance. And I must also ask you, in the context of today's budget debate, to be more cautious with your choice of words. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We know this from the demonstrations in Vienna, where it was called: Resistance, resistance, hair, bowl on the wall! – There were no such words in Austria before, and I simply do not think that this policy is very targeted. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, there is also a very serious danger that various very extreme groups may feel involved. For example, in an open letter by Fritz Molden: "In memory of all those Austrians who, out of conviction, have put their lives at risk in resistance and for the liberation of Austria against a murderous dictatorship until 1945, we ask to say goodbye to a careless handling of the term resistance." Ladies and gentlemen! I now show you something that, in my opinion, is scandalous and also extremely disturbing: a money note that has appeared in the Styria, a real money note, a 20 S note printed with the words "05 – Resistance FPÖVP – Every Thursday demo in Vienna – Kill Haider and scratch the cars of his voters". [[This Directive shall enter into force on the]] [[Calls:Awesome]] – I have this note here for you in a large format, so that you can look at it carefully. [[Keeping the 20 S-Sham in height in a large-format copy.]] I believe that this is the danger of a fundamental opposition being conducted, which is the danger of being carelessly handled in words such as "resistance": that various groups attach this to their flags, that they publish a death call on a money note in the Styria: Kill Haider and scratch his voters' cars. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the police are informed. The state police are working on it. Therefore, once again my request: If one makes responsible politics in Austria, one should also be careful in the choice of words, one should not wage an election campaign in Styria, which begins with the word "resistance". Constructive opposition would be very desirable and would also be very targeted for the people of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9307	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzenberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9329	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The government has begun to put the budget in order. After all, in the meantime we have become the final light of the 15 EU countries, and there are a number of EU countries that already have budget surpluses. As a result, the objective of not reaching a net deficit in 2002 is a very decisive policy also in Austrian fiscal policy. The survey results show that the population also attaches great value to this objective and that a large part of the population is willing to take this path. A resolution has been announced by SPÖ-Obmann Gusenbauer in connection with the German Federal Government's savings plans for achieving a balanced budget in 2000, already during the "summer talks" on television. I believe that this motion for a resolution, which, as it were, has a social levelling of agricultural support, will then be introduced by the honourable Member. I think the SPÖ is confusing social staggerings with large-scale degressions. We had social staggerings in the mining grant before 1995, which included non-agricultural incomes, and this has led to a reduction in the number of additional workers. Gusenbauer spoke of 70,000 small farmers. – By the way, according to statistics, there are 85 000 farmers with less than five hectares of agricultural land in Austria. Thus, when Gusenbauer speaks of 70 000 small farmers, the large farmer obviously starts already at 4.5 hectares. It may not be, or these 70,000 were, so to speak, just a house number. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He has no idea!]] We are committed to a scale of agricultural production, and where Austria has the opportunity to shape it itself, we have already introduced this scale. In the case of the compensation allowance, the reduction is already beginning from 30. Acres and ends with the 90 acres. For 91. There is currently no compensation allowance for hectares. At the ÖPUL we have a degression starting from 100 hectares. We attach great importance to the public health that – it is a voluntary action, a voluntary sector – larger farms also participate in environmentally friendly agriculture. Only if, in an area, a large proportion of the land is managed ecologically will a corresponding effect be achieved in terms of groundwater and the overall situation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the negotiations under Agenda 2000, Austria was the only country to represent this scale by the end of the year, and – Minister of Finance Grasser has announced it – the Federal Government is ready to make a new accusation here. However, a single entry in the market-regulation premiums would only help the EU to save, because the crop-area premiums and the cattle premiums are paid entirely by the EU, to 100 percent. It would theoretically be the possibility to introduce a modulation here. It is, as it were, a rural development, but it must be co-financed at national level. In the current agricultural budget, we have the opportunity to co-finance the around 6 billion schilling we receive annually for the rural development of Brussels. In the sense of a continuing constructive agricultural policy, we expect the SPÖ with which we have concluded in 1994 on the occasion of the accession of this Europe Agreement to the EU to continue to stand up to these commitments. We are, of course, ready for reasonable savings. However, these savings cannot look like 3 per cent of the unexploited EU payments in Austria, while 97 per cent are paid back to the other 14 EU countries, so to speak. This is certainly not the case, because every schilling granted to Austrian farmers from EU payments is doubled and invested by the farmers. 27 to 30 billion schillings were annual investments by farmers, about half from EU payments. In other words, this contributes significantly to economic promotion.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9372	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr Glawischnig spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9394	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! The budget debate is important and urgent. We've heard a lot about it today. However, from my point of view, it is also important and urgent, and from the point of view of the Greens and from the point of view of many, many people who have gone on the road in the last few days, it is indeed remarkable which change of mind has taken place ten days before the Czech nuclear power station Temelin started to operate. It is remarkable that Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel brought the word Temelin to the lips for the first time in July. There have also been many statements by citizens who have said in recent days that they are extremely disappointed that the Federal Government and the responsible politicians are only taking first steps, so late, ten days before possible final commissioning. I would like to remind you once again that in the autumn of last year, there was an attempt to adopt a Temelin closure package here in the National Council, that we tried again in February of this year, and that colleagues Khol and Westenthal voted against it in the Presidential Council at that time, that we are still discussing this issue in good time before really important decisions in the Czech Republic in the National Council. At the time, I found it incredibly disappointing that we were moving motions for resolutions on temelin to the long-term bank, that Temelin had not been treated before the summer break, yes, even the own government proposal, which has not been dealt with in its own proposals. Now, ten days before commissioning, that is, very late, probably too late, at last the wake-up of the environmental movement, the 3,000 people who were on the road on Saturday, has been heard in approaches. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is still a lot to note about this today's Temelin package. First, it's late, very, very late. It is good that the government has now awakened in this form, that the government groups have also recognised the importance and that for the first time the club members Khol and Westenthal have also expressed themselves on this issue. And it's good that there's this request today. But if the Greens did not exist and if there had not been the green handwriting in this request, then the government proposal would have become a free letter for commissioning. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your intelligence forbids such a thing! You know exactly that's not the way it is!]] Much too weak and in no way sufficient to put in any form a strong signal towards the Czech Republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Westenthaler! I know very well in these matters. It is still disappointing for me that you personally rejected it in the President in March. With this responsibility you have to get done yourself. If, despite everything, Temelin goes into operation, then the Federal Government also bears a small amount of responsibility for this, and then these government parties also bear a lot of responsibility because this request has come too late. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Take a look at what Joschka Fischer is doing! It's also a greener!]] In my view, it is also very unfortunate that, under quotation marks, "the homework", we have always mentioned, it has not been done in this context, the responsibility of Austria has not been taken into account. The Federal Chancellor has also mentioned, Temelin is being built for export, also for export to Austria. I have always found it terrible to have to know locally in the Czech Republic that there are Austrian electricity suppliers who are not afraid to transfer to Austria via general exporters of the Czech energy supply company CEZ Temelin-Strom in the future. And I still find it highly urgent for us that there are Austrian companies involved there that there are Austrian insurance companies that have assured Temelin accidents that Austrians are in an insurance community with a nuclear power station. That is why our proposals, which unfortunately have no longer been included in this request, have been to check the right to award, whether it is possible to take action against such compliments in Austria, and to terminate the existing electricity supply contracts without delay. It is truly highly urgent that there are contracts with a company, with a electricity company, which Temelin manufactures by Austrian energy suppliers, which are 100% owned by federal states. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it goes into operation, they will bear a corresponding piece of responsibility, because today it is very, very late, sometimes far too late. Our proposal to balance the interests of life with what they are really worth, namely with an economic bill, with an exit scenario, has not been approved by you. You do not need to explain to me that it would, of course, be much more reasonable to invest in energy saving measures. I know, we've always discussed this. In this situation, it is necessary to have an absolutely important sign in order to re-establish the procedures to bring the extremely hardened lines of conflict back into motion in some way. I think the time of diplomacy is over. When you think back to famous Clinton quotes, for example, "It's the economy, stupid", you know that Temelin is an economic question. You can apply for 5 billion schilling for energy saving measures in the Czech Republic. I am delighted, but believe that it has become a question of survival for the Czech Republic and the Czech energy supply company CEZ and that the internal pressure to abandon this power plant is an economic question. In this situation, our proposal is to balance the interests of life with what they really are worth. I hardly think there are other possibilities. It would have been an incredibly strong signal. I would also have been pleased if you had said a billion or two billion, but there must be an offer in any form that will satisfy the drama of the situation, and not just diplomatic flakes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not understandable to me at all that no one in the government groups has a problem with buying any comic tanks and any weapons. I really don't understand any details on this question, but I think that many Austrians don't understand it either. As in the past legislative period, what do we need to spend 13 billion schilling for used tanks? Are these really the security interests of Austria? - They're not! And that's so clear on the table. I do not understand how to laugh at such proposals when it comes to nuclear power stations when it comes to security interests, when it comes to a billion, 2 billion, 5 billion, if it means what a strange proposal is. In other areas, without taking the eyelash, you spend money on things that from my point of view are just hair-throwing. I just don't understand. I believe that many people in Austria cannot understand at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why don't you really apply for exit billions? Why Make You don't? Why is this so absurd from your point of view? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Why don't the Greens do it in Germany?]] There have been activities of the German Environment Minister in recent months, Jürgen Trittin has expressed himself very strongly in the last weeks and months, very forced towards the Czech Republic. There has also been a strong back cover for the Austrian position. I'm just asking you one thing: In recent years, why has the ÖVP not been at the CDU/CSU and so on, which have taken a very clear position in terms of nuclear power, which wants to reverse the exit consensus, to go there? So I find this debate really absurd. I also do not blame you for the sins of Mr Kohl in Germany. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Glavish! The Kohl is Christ Democrat!]] If the Greens did not exist in Austria, the anti-atomic policy in this country would have looked quite different. And if there hadn't been 3 000 citizens. Why does it always have to come so far that 3,000 people have to go to the streets that environmental organisations in the Czech Republic have to be accused by the CEZ? Why does it always have to come that far until finally something stronger is adopted in the National Council? That's pretty sad. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last comment on Temelin and the whole problem. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But you weren't there!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She'll never be there when it comes to it! That's her problem!]] I was involved in very, very many environmental actions. From your point of view, demonstrations and demonstrators always have something strange to themselves. These are the long-haired skinheads that protested in the Ennstal, and so on. [[Call from the liberals.]] That's a quote from the "Kronen Zeitung". I quote, "the long-haired skinheads." That was a quote from a FPÖ politician from the "Kronen Zeitung". Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make one last comment on this whole of Causa Temelin and on why, from our point of view, these 5 billion schillings would really have been the essential thing. Maybe you'll still think about it. They are currently discussing budgets, the 2001 and 2002 budgets. I believe and am deeply convinced that relations between Austria and the neighbouring countries, as they have now reached this point, must not end. I strongly support the inclusion of these neighbouring countries in the European Union, just as all the Greens do. This CFC problem must in any way also be solved via the economic side. If you refuse, on the one hand,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9566	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9581	I'm at the end of the sentence. – If, on the one hand, you look beyond the electricity imports and on the other hand do not make an exit offer, your strategy cannot go on. We will not get tired of continuing to work on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9617	Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig! In the case of generous interpretation of what your word is used for, I should like to remind you of the following: It has, after all, been a urgent question on the subject of "continuation of the budgetary burden rate of the Austrian Federal Government". [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This application has budget relevance!]] I'm just saying you once used the word "budget" and once the words "3 billion". I'm asking you to perhaps take the matter a little more seriously when it comes to urgent inquiries. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Two words about the budget have found it!]] As the next speaker, Mr Gradwelt has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9660	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! Although it is not up to me – but Mr President, you will allow me to make this comment – in the sense of your final criticism of the statements made by Mrs Glawischnig, I must remind you that it was not the one who introduced this debate in broadest form, but that it was others, among others by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Klubobmann Khol. [[Abg. Böhacker: No criticism at all!]] I think it's an important topic and has budget relevance. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is quite possible, in the context of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss such important issues in this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, Mr President, in order not to put me at the risk of hearing from you the accusation that I had not spoken on the subject, I should first like to refer to the statements made by some of the previous speakers on this subject. Mrs Zierler, there is a problem that always leads to a wide dispersal of discussions in the political debate and is actually losing sight of the subject. In turn, you have shown a beautiful Taferl with the tax reform, even in two ways with the tax reform 2000, but you have not listened when President Vergestnich here said from this point that the tax reform 2000 brings all that you and your group have rejected and, on the other hand, you have very strongly opposed. You always forget to say that, Mrs. Zierler. [[Abg. Neudeck: We can finance it already!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We have rejected it because we want more for the little man!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On another point, ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed in your remarks, Mrs Zierler. They said that the word "resistance" would be the most common in the Styrian election campaign. You're wrong! It is not the word "resistance", which is most common, but rather the word "save broken", but that would not have fit into your speech concept, so you have taken a word other than the most commonly mentioned. [[Abg. Neudeck: She meant, in the population, not in the SPÖ!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm talking to Mrs. Zierler, I didn't know you were named. And one last, ladies and gentlemen. If Mrs Zierler here, with an enlarged money note, is the opposition, a fundamental opposition, these things would scatter, I really think this would be a naughtiness. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's a question of order.]] Mrs Zierler, with the same right and with the same inbrust you have shown out here, I can also advise you, I could also say that you have made this ticket yourself to have a topic in the election campaign, for you are missing, Mrs Zierler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, back to the budget. Mr Schwarzenberger pointed out that he felt that social democracy in the field of social staggering was mistakenly having a redistribution discussion in the agricultural sector. Mr Schwarzenberger, we are both experts in the Green Report, which is excellent. Although in recent weeks and months it has been partially criticised by the Federal Farmers' Government, for which you have not yet spoken, the Green Report is, in any case, an important instrument for policy. I also have a taferl because you can show it all better. [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk.]] This Green Report, Mr Schwarzenberger, shows exactly what is on the Taferl, namely that 60 percent... [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Wrong, turn around!]] [[The speaker noted that the panel was right.]] It could have been that you once were polite, Mr Graf, would have been possible. It is true that 60 percent of the income, Mr Schwarzenberger, comes from public funds and the distribution is so unfair that those with the highest incomes also receive the highest public resources. This is what the Social Democrats have been talking about, not only since yesterday, since yesterday, since last week, but for decades, Mr Schwarzenberger. If you remember the 1995 election campaign, you will find that a similar dispute has already taken place here in this House. And what was the success? – The success was that of the Minister of Finance today in his reply to question 19. He has said that after a discussion with the Minister for Agriculture, whether it be the common will – Mrs Aumayr will be able to confirm this, we have already heard a few times – to implement this social justice, this improvement in the safety of the agricultural policy. Only, Minister of Finance, this common will has always been reflected in my experience in recent years in such a way that it is required globally, but is prevented nationally. We are concerned that national prevention is no longer taking place this time, because, Mr Finanzminister, in your speech on the 2000 federal proposal, you have emphasized, I quote, that the government will make social justice possible in a special way. Your words! Do you make it possible? Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, make it possible to agree to the motion for a resolution by the Socialists today? This is: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You have the opportunity to prove here today that what a famous and well-known South Austrian has said about the countess of Marchfeld in recent days is also your opinion and that you support what the Minister of Finance has said today at least in replying to Question 19, for he has not answered the question like many other questions in the answer to the question. They could thus prove that social justice and security in the agricultural sector play a role in the Freedom Party. I should like to make another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I assume that those members of this House who belong to the ÖAAB and are officials of the Public Service Trade Union, even if they are in the ÖVP Club, will certainly also be able to and will agree. If, in the meantime, Mr Khol does not want to accept the accusation that he is a clubman of a party that no longer represents the position of the middle class and the economy, which, as the last discussions show specifically on the agricultural subject, is the party of the majority of the agricultural farmers, namely the smaller farmers, he will no longer be accused of forgetting the group of officials in the meantime...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9838	Please put the final sentence, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9853	... and also this group no longer wants to support. I therefore call on you to give your consent to these two motions for resolutions and to prove that it really is for you to take control of the future of Austria and the future of the Austrians and not just to cut down and reform to death.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9884	The motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Gradwelt, Mr Pendl, Mr Comrades and Mr Genscher, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Trattner. Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen, you have spoken for business treatment. Did you pull that back? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes!]] That's a deputies' power. Trattner next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e9948	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of State on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Gradwelt, I think that my colleague Zierler is going to be falsifying, which is a bit too far. [[Abg. Gradwelt: I could, I said!]] You should apologize to my colleague, Zierler, for this mistake, because it was a grip on the bottom drawer. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You put something there!]] Mr Gusenbauer is back. After the cartoon in the "Kurier"... Mr Gusenbauer, I have to tell you quite honestly that you have read the wrong budget. You have obviously launched a urgent request to an old budget from your colleague Edlinger. But it is about a budget of Minister of Finance Grasser. Mr Vergestnich confused the year in his speech or speech. First of all, you have talked about the 2000 budget and not about the 2001 budget, although you have tabled a motion for a resolution in which you write: "The government's arbitrary objective of reducing the re-indebtedness of the general state to zero by 2002..." I believe that there is a fundamental difference of opinion between the Austrian population and the Socialist Party. In the Austrian population, 47 percent consider the renovation to be very important and 42 percent important. 71 percent would regret a failure of the zero deficit. They rule by the Austrian population as usual. This is also seen from the reasons for your motion for a resolution, in which you say that "the budget is not burdened by additional non-profit-making expenditure". In this way, you say that social-politically useless additional expenditure is the child care allowance and the reduction of additional wage costs. On this point too, you certainly do not conform to Austrian society, there you stand alone. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have not read this motion for a resolution – which is probably common – otherwise you would not have brought it in this form. It also states: "In contrast to the additional burden on workers and pensioners, the measures in the business sector are only to be decided temporarily." [[Abg. That's true, too!]] You didn't take care of that either! Minister for Finance Grasser said quite clearly: It is about that we want to create a margin by the year 2003. A tax reform will be launched in 2003, which will, of course, benefit not only employers but also workers. And that's crucial! And that is why it is important to shape this budget in the way that a zero budget is reached or that there can also be a slight surplus in 2002 to 2003. This is the goal that this federal government has set itself. In achieving this objective, the Federal Government should be supported, and this support is also supported by the Austrian population. The Federal Government has also shown with this budget what areas are to be saved or structural measures to be taken. Now I am right if you say that the 5 billion schillings under the title of "Treffheiter zur Sozialbehörde" are only put into space. However, you also know very well that the safety of social benefits must first be more carefully discussed and considered internally before measures can be discussed or implemented. [[Abg. It is a question of billions!]] Mr President, there is a package of measures in the order of 15 to 16 billion schillings within which things can be addressed. These things are debated internally, examined for social tolerance and then decided by the government parties. And that is the new way that this government has taken, that things are being debated internally, socially balanced and then decided. That is why this government is so successful in fiscal consolidation. And the same is true of administrative reform. You also say – well-founded – that 10 billion schilling savings is the goal. What's your goal? You have not defined a goal! You didn't say you wanted a zero deficit or surpluses. You have defined as a goal, you want a budget consolidation. But what is your budget deficit target? Is it 1.5 percent, or 2%? [[Abg. Verbatim: Read logs!]] Define it! Then we have the contentious debate. Government parties are in favour of creating a zero budget so that in future the Austrian population or future generations of interest payments will be relieved. I think it is the right way forward for this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10047	Next speaker is Member Dr. Stummvoll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10069	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed today's debate, one must say that one must be grateful to those who have convened this special meeting, namely the Socialist Group. It would no longer have been necessary, after the reform dialogue in the Court of Justice on Friday, to hold a special meeting on the budget, but it was this special meeting today, although only under generous interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, of course, very recent with regard to the security needs of citizens in Central Europe, as far as Temelin is concerned. In that respect, the opposition is due to thank you. Today, with this special meeting, it has provided the opportunity for us to bring this motion for a resolution to Temelin and to signal a close to the back of our people's safety. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the real budget issue is concerned, I believe that this strategy – zero deficit – is finally a turning point in the country's financial and budgetary policy – to the end of the debt. We have now learned, ladies and gentlemen – and this is contrary to what was propagated in the 1970s and 1980s – that debt policy means moving problems into the future. Debts are spent future, and debt is above all the biggest enemy of jobs. – Very easy to understand in examples such as "consumer" or nationalized industry. Debts are the biggest enemy of jobs! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, debt reduction, the end of debt policy to secure jobs and to ensure full employment. That is to re-rule Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to the criticism of the opposition – and I am one of those who take this criticism very constructively – then I have to realize that it actually goes in several directions. One point was that the whole thing is far too nebulos, it's just headlines, you don't know what's behind it. On the other hand, Mr President, we always hear that the pace of government is far too high. So you have to decide: Now, do you want to have everything on the spot today, or is the pace too high? You can't have both. On the one hand, you complain, the government is driving all over it and it's all too fast, the pace is too high for you. And now you complain again and think the pace is too low. Please decide what you want. We'll be happy to focus on that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! On the second point of criticism – I have listened very attentively –: Mr Gusenbauer has today tried to be a protector of the economy. I would also say: Mr Gusenbauer, here too you have to decide. Is this package good or bad for the business location? What you have done here, namely to say, in itself it is bad for the economic location, but with the foundations you have to do much more, is just schizophrenic. There you have to learn a little bit of economics and also learn that the atmospheric, the psychological, the trust is incredibly important in the economy. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Go, please!]] Of course, we know – and the government knows that too – that is what finance ministers and German Chancellors know; and also Gusenbauer has heard it in the reform dialogue, only one had to watch – that budget consolidation and security of the economic location are two equal goals. At the moment alone, budget consolidation is a priority. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Before the business location?]] And if something takes precedence, then logically everything else has a provisional priority. In the sense of a longer-term perspective, however, it has been said very clearly: Company tax, non-tariff costs, research offensive, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Whoever comes too late punishes the story!]] This is a concerted strategy, on the one hand, to consolidate the budget, and on the other hand to implement appropriate offensive strategies to secure jobs. Mr Finanzminister! Federal Chancellor! Thank you for this double strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In fact, Mr Gusenbauer! I've already said this in a television discussion: Whoever really believed that budget consolidation, which is about 100 billion schilling, works without pain, must be very naïve. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have once argued more serious!]] Any budget consolidation – even to this extent – must cause pain. The difference between opposition and government is just one: The government says how it is, the opposition explains how it is not going. This is the difference between government and opposition, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To conclude: I have to quote it because I really liked it very well. I found today in the inbox a small brochure on SPÖ's economic policy. The summary is as follows: False concepts, genuine pleas – "consumer", nationalised, deficit policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10216	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10237	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! In order to ensure that everything has its formal accuracy and also Mr President Prinzhorn's connection with the speech of Mr Glavischnig on the subject of the urgent matter must not continue to be alarmed, I would like to put the following motion at the outset: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Due to the short period of time, I will not go into your and German chancellor Schüssels’ appeals, but we should invest meaningfully in sustainable energy measures instead of financing a gas power plant. I do not do this because I also want to talk about budget. In this context, I am constantly aware of the speeches made by Mr Khol, who says: The path is right, debt reduction has begun, re-government is the end of debt policy. Mr Khol! Hold, I thought you caught an old text template. Because what you said today, you said that already in 1997 – then under other omens and then after eleven years of coalition with SPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That was true at the time!]] I'll tell you what you said back then: The cleaning work from the socialist era has ended. - 1997! – With the decision of these reforms and the 1998 and 1999 budgets, we have finally built the way for the future. – It was obviously only very provisional! – The cleaning work from the era of socialist politics has ended, and the turn has been made. We have set the course in such a way that at least in the field of state finances, we no longer consume the future of our children. - In 1997, you believed that. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes, then we believed that!]] Perhaps the Members of your club should ask themselves, not only if you really believed what you said, but also whether you are such a good clubman, since you were apparently unable to estimate the situation properly at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Of course!]] This is a serious accusation to be made to a club chairman. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we have heard today is that it is a socially just budget, although in fact only 25 percent of the revenue has been declared somewhat. I am referring to this 25 percent only with a short additional sentence, because it is actually important what is happening on the expenditure side when it comes to budget recovery. But what happened to me on the revenue side was the siren, the roars you heard when it came to the taxing of the foundations. The Minister for Economic Affairs, Bartenstein, said on the previous day of the Budget Rodeo that it was a question of incredible sensitivity. He is not here now, Mr Bartenstein, but I would also like to ask myself this incredible sensitivity to the question of the foundation on social justice in the form of pensions, where it was about rights. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One could go on to say the words of Mr. Prinzhorn, who spoke of an "unbelievable stupidity" in connection with the foundation tax, or to Mr. Mitterbauer, who spoke of the "unique jewel" of the foundations in Austria, which should not be destroyed. More importantly, what happens on the expenditure side. And there's only one statement I think is very striking: You have not said anything about what you really want to do on the expenditure side, except that you have passed on tasks to the countries that will pass them back to the municipalities. In this context, I can only appreciate the statement made by the representative of the Federal Government, who said that the Federation is not talking about its extra expenditure. He is not willing to limit his extra expenditure in the area of child money. We say to that: neither in the armor, nor in other areas. The consequence is: Countries and municipalities may have to cut down, recruit or make more expensive childcare facilities and budget recovery at the expense of the child's allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10336	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10352	And this is not the social tolerance that we demand from a federal budget and also from the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10382	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Mr Oellinger's request, which has just been read by Mr Glawischnig, Mr Van der Bellen, Mr Freunde, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer referred to the President for an extension of his speaking time.]] 4 minutes, honourable Member. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10415	Thank you, Mr President. – Mr Bundeskanzler! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig! After your speech, I don't know very well now. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Not before!]] Still on 29.8. you rejoiced at the results of the government summit at Temelin and said that it was really great how the Greens once again prevailed at this government summit. An important signal has been set, and everything that has been defined clearly corresponds to what the Greens have called for. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She already forgot!]] Today, exactly what has been discussed during this summit is negotiated and presented as a result, in this proposal inside – and now at once that is not so good and comes too late. I don't quite understand, but probably many others don't understand – as some others can't understand either. Mr Gusenbauer held a press conference today, in which he also said: An anti-temelin education certificate – Mr. Gusenbauer! – will not exist today. I'm glad... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read out!]] Gusenbauer refuses anti-temelin training. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This changes from hour to hour!]] For SPÖ chairman Alfred Gusenbauer, it is clear that the National Council's shoulder closure will not be achieved today, as Gusenbauer stated on Tuesday. - That's today. Mr Gusenbauer – and I am glad about that – did not prevail in his party. In this case, I am particularly happy about it. I thank the reasonable ones in the SPÖ who have made it possible for it to come to a four-party request today. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Grenzgenial, Mr. Schweitzer! Not even reading powerful!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Van der Bellen, now on your proposal: 5 billion for the conversion of temelin into a gas power plant. It is the subject of your request to make 5 billion schilling available. I believe that this is not a target for two reasons. Firstly, it is known that there is a surplus of energy in the Czech Republic and that there is State support for the export of this surplus of energy abroad. This contradicts all the anti-dumping provisions of the European Union! If this country is going to be a member of the European Union, then this surplus cannot be exported at all. So it is pointless to build a power plant with Austrian money, which then produces even more surplus, which may not be stopped. - On the one hand. Secondly, Mr Oellinger, we are creating a prejudice here, with which we may go into the hostagery of those who also want to become members of the European Union and operate an unsafe power plant. These are all the Eastern European states, such as Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria and, possibly, the successor states of the USSR. I just need to list the power plants: We still have Mochovce, Bohunice, Paks, Kosloduj, Krško, Ignalina, and that's not a complete list yet. If we are to pay a further 5 billion for the decommissioning of all these power plants, then this will become pretty slowly unfinancingable. I therefore believe that this proposal is not really useful either. The four-party request, which has also been negotiated with you, corresponds to the needs we find today. I believe that, together with a discussion we will be holding next week with a Czech delegation on the commissioning of Temelin, the Austrian Federal Government has done everything it can to represent the interests of the Austrian population and the concern that the Austrian people have before the start of this power plant.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10506	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10521	We do what we can. It will certainly be at the will of the Government in the Czech Republic whether it takes the arguments we are presenting seriously and shares our concerns.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10552	Mr Spindelegger spoke as the last speaker. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10573	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Allow After three hours of debate in the context of a urgent question, I should like to make a brief political summary. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Today, at the invitation and convocation of the SPÖ, we have had to experience a special meeting which has not provided any new information, which has been known since last Friday. However, we have learned something about it, and that is the view of the SPÖ on the issue of debt eradication and, as a whole, a discharge of public debt for the Austrians. Point one: With regard to zero deficit 2002, we have learned today that the SPÖ has undergone an interesting change of opinion within a few days. I remember that in a discussion with the Minister of Finance, Mr Gusenbauer saw very positively this objective, that one should actually come to a zero deficit in 2002. In the reform dialogue on last Friday, it sounded a bit different: There's a boy coming out of the yeah. And today, ladies and gentlemen? In the speech of Gusenbauer, who has heard that one confesses to a zero deficit in 2002? - No one! It seems that this one has now become a final No, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is also not a Confessor Parliament, but for discussion!]] I would say that from your responsibility for the last 30 years, you should actually say a big yes to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In fact, between 1970 and 2000, there is a debt mountain of more than 1,600 billion schilling, in which I think you and your party have an unsustainable share. And I believe, Mr Vergestnich, that you too have referred to this today: The ÖVP was not there for 30 years. – You have forgotten the glorious phase of the SPÖ’s sole government, which has been the real cause of this debt policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Controversy: But you have voted!]] Point two: What we have learned today is that Mr Gusenbauer believes that the word "must" is not to be attributed to the government in connection with this deficit reduction by 2002. That too is an interesting thing. I think it is courageous because it is first of all earlier than expected that one will come to a zero deficit, and secondly, from my point of view, it will finally bring air to the budget again, because the tormenting interest of 100 billion schilling per year, which must be paid without Austria having any of it, will really be reduced at one time. Thirdly, I believe it is also courageous, because it naturally leads to burdens which must also be borne. It is not funny if anyone has to bear burdens, neither for your party nor for another, but it is courageous to confess to that too. We confess to that! But with the word "must" I would also like to join you. What is not courageous is that, according to your comments by Mr Grasser, you have now left the courage to say the word "reduction of budget deficit" and put the deficit to zero in 2002. It doesn't happen to you anymore. I think you should put on the Courage again, even as SPÖ to say a yes to this destruction. I ask you to do that. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned today that SPÖ has no alternative to debt reduction. When I read what Mr Vergestnich said in his motion in the first sentence, I am almost horrified. For the first sentence of your application is: "The objective of the Federal Government's arbitrary re-indebtedness by 2002 to zero..." Ladies and gentlemen! That sounds to me like the alternative is: Let's leave it in debt policy! – But this, ladies and gentlemen, is a fatal mistake! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to add that it is also a boundless egoism to put forward problems to all the others in the future and to say: You're gonna sort of solve it! – This is a fundamental debate, ladies and gentlemen, which we cannot leave behind. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] For us, this objective of putting the budget deficit at zero in 2002 is a courageous, ambitious, but highly necessary in the interests of a policy for generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10661	A motion for a resolution - he is now before the Bureau - was read by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr Kostelka, Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the introduction of a social phase in the fairer distribution of agricultural support by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: To vote!]] The application is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members of Parliament on the principles of socially balanced, forward-looking and sustainable budget consolidation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is here!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Sima, Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, Dr. Glawischnig and comrades concerning Austrian concerns related to the planned start-up of the Temelin AKW. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 28.) [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nice!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Cubite and comrades on stopover. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (in the direction of ÖVP)]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kubitschek and Mr Comrades on the closure of tax gaps in private foundations. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Cut off! It's already a template!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Gradwelt and Mr Comrades on the round of salaries for public servants. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig and Mr Comrades on an exit offer from the Austrian Federal Government to the Czech Government for the Temelin nuclear power station and the same in the 2001 budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Five to zero we won! That was a five-to-zero match, including an own gate!]] We now come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Agriculture, the Environment and the Water Industry concerning the introduction of a social stage for the fairer distribution of agricultural support. To this end, the National Council is until 31. a written proposal for consultation on this subject in October 2000. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Speed profit! We've got it!]] Short debate on the response 1002/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10837	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Justice with the order number 1002/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, but the first speaker shall have a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Mag. Stoisits as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Your speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, is 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e10868	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Minister of Finance, who is now adopting his position. Estimated Minister of State! Before – I don't know exactly now – about four months ago, when you Having taken over your office – six are already; now I have not included the summer holidays – you have been the subject of a debate here in the House, as it is called in Parliament's technical language. At that time you were the subject of a debate because the Green Group expressed your distrust right after you took office. You remember, and ladies and gentlemen are quite sure to remember it. We expressed our distrust at the time, because we thought your Constitution was a very dangerous one – at that time we thought and still held, Minister of the State! At the time you showed your true face immediately or very shortly after you took office, but at the very beginning you had made statements of a judicial nature, which have certainly also found great sympathy in the Green Group. The expertise, the expertise, the experience in this field will no one agree with you, Federal Minister. A person who has worked as a lawyer for decades has gained experience, which – and I continue to represent this opinion – has given him the qualifications that a Federal Minister for Justice should have and which is also required. At the time, however, you, Mr Federal Minister – you have tried to correct it half-heartedly and in many words, in part, but never really took it back – this – and I stick to it – serious attack on democracy by the black and blue government, given not yet by the then, but by now simple party member and non-governmental head of state of Carinthia, has carried along, supported and never really taken back, I would like to mention here again so that this Genesis of the era Böhmdorfer – six months, Mr. Federal Minister! – here will be a little present to the House again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What has happened in the meantime, I do not want to repeat everything because it has already been done in the public, for example, the fact that the explicit indication that Mr. Böhmdorfer is now the Minister of Justice of the Republic, is on the paper of the law firm, on which complaints against – now I say it quite plainly – critical voices and people in that country are brought in. Federal Minister! If my name were there, it would be embarrassing to me. It would be embarrassing to me because it is about the reputation of independence – not about your individual and personal, but about the reputation of the independence of justice as a whole. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Kubitschek.]] This is not a feeling – here I speak not as a legal profession, but as a citizen and also as a member of parliament – and that is not an emotional condition, Mr Federal Minister, but it is an appreciation that I hold as a politician and a citizen. But I am in the best of society concerned about certain behaviours which you have shown in the last six months and which justify these concerns. The President of the Austrian Judicial Association, truly a person – in this case a woman – who, in her activity, places the main emphasis on independence, impartiality, incoherence and independence in every relationship in the professional group she represents, also expresses this concern. It has not made it as drastic as it may be the kind of oppositionary Members, but in words that are really terrifying to me. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You must be independent in case law!]] She just said: It is the concern about the image of justice that it drives and leads to the public, and it has expressed its concern in words. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But their personal judgments do not have to be objective!]] Federal Minister! This is something – and now I am limited to the observation period that is relevant here, namely, we say, to the last 15 years – that is a concern that has been expressed in the public for the first time – thank God, you have to say – for the first time, and all this is always connected with the name Böhmdorfer and always with the FPÖ, although Böhmdorfer is not a FPÖ member. The Federal Minister has said here several times that he is not a member of the Freedom Party. But he has not become known in Austria as a simple party member, but as a mass declareer against the critics of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Fischl: Very ugly!]] That's what he made his name. This cannot be described as a mass complaint that has been brought against critical votes in recent years, long before his time as Minister of Justice in Austria. That's how he's become known. Mr Federal Minister, that is what affects the climate, the mood and the concerns that exist now! Now again to the serious attack on democracy, for example, by the proposal, formulated by Dr. Haider, which you favourably and conciliatoryly acclaim, of punishing critical oppositionals and so on, which reflects this mood and this image that we are increasingly approaching a system that is known to us only from really totalitarian states. When you read newspaper and comments, you can see that this is supported daily. [[Abg. Fischl: This is a chain of exaggerations!]] In the meantime, this goes so far that in this country not only mass and large numbers of people go against independent media and complain newspapers, complain journalists and even bring comments written in newspapers to the judge, but also that artists who make critical statements are covered with complaints! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fastgg]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Could they? Yes, it was!]] It goes so far that scientists from FPÖ members are covered with complaints! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Fischl, Mr Gaugg and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] But this, ladies and gentlemen, has a direct connection with this mood, with this feeling, with this concern, and with the fact that the citizens who have their opinion vehemently point out this opinion and articulate it to an ever greater extent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] And then it goes so far that most of these complaints at the last instance before the curator and president of a Senate at the Oberlandesgericht, blessed by the Austrian Freedom Party and the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This speech was written by the Brunner, because that... brought it to the radio yesterday!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to discuss what the judgments will be made in this Senate, whose chairman is Dr. Maurer, look like! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: She didn't write his own speech! She wrote to the City Council!]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is what causes the President of the Austrian judicial association to comment on her dosed remark that she is concerned about the image of justice. This concern has a name [[Abg. Wattaul: Green! Green!]] This concern is called FPÖ, FPÖ Party Policy, FPÖ Instrumentation Policy! The Freedom Party as a government party in this country is responsible for reducing the confidence of the Austrian population in justice day after day, that it is directly shaken in certain population and occupation groups! [[Call to the liberals: This is not true!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Would you like that, gal?]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You'd like that!]] You only need to look at what has happened in the area of complaints and FPÖ in recent months! – That, Mr Federal Minister, is what we want to know here! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wattaul: Citizens' rights! Citizens' rights!]] It is part of this strategy of co-operation between ÖVP and FPÖ that it comes to this alienation of these, I would say almost, icons – which it logically is – of the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, that they are being so shaken by the fact that there is this mixture on a permanent basis. [[Abg. Wattaul: Is there no more civil rights?]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to sanction what may have happened in the past. The Greens always have strict all parties,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11101	Please, ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11117	... every party that comes up will and will continue to do so in the future, but we expect a party that claims for itself to have leased cleanliness, that it will also be concerned in its own ranks for this political cleanliness, this hygiene and this image that is now being demanded at the level of politics. And, you, Minister of State,...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11140	Ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11155	... are one of the main responsibility for this image!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11240	As the next speaker, Mr Böhmdorfer is speaking. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11261	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by speaking at the outset with a view to clarifying some misunderstandings which the honourable Member is obviously subject to. I have never required opposition politicians to be detained or, as Mr Van der Bellen said, to be threatened with the loss of mandate. I have never supported this, and no one can call on a correct source in these accusations. [[Abg. Oils: But... the idea!]] I would like to say the following to the accusation of the mass complaint: The claim here is that the law firm, in which I was once involved, is in large numbers suing opposition politicians for the members of the government. – I can assure you: There is no such complaint! [[Abg. Fischl: Incredible!]] You can calmly make a notable one. I'll take care of it. Please bear in mind that you are saying: Mass charges for government politicians against opposition politicians. – Please call one! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Insanity, what claims they make! That's all untrue!]] As far as the paper is concerned, I ask you to consider: I had to decide overnight whether to let myself be praised as a member of the Federal Government, and I had to sell my shares in the law firm in which I worked – I had a partner. I have done this in order to draw a clear conclusion from the previous activity. I could have chosen other solutions. I am no longer involved in this law firm, but in the contract that I have concluded is like in the contracts of all others or, as I suppose, at least most other law firms inside, that if someone leaves the firm and no longer exercises the legal profession, the name of the law firm must be preserved. However, in order to take special action here, my ex-partner has obtained a notice from the Chamber of Law Vienna, and in this notice she was ordered to add to the prevention of misunderstandings that I am currently acting as Minister of Justice for Justice because of the rest of the lawyer's power. - That's the background. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's very correct!]] I can't act differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11346	Mr Jarolim spoke as the next speaker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11412	Do you want to? – You'd probably like to throw them, wouldn't you? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mrs. Stoisits, apologise! What do you say now?]] Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now, as I have only five minutes at my disposal, deal primarily with the statements made here by the Minister of Justice. I may mention at the outset – and you can certainly confirm this – that we, that is, the Social Democratic Party, have acted with respect to you at the time of your accession and have also welcomed the first activities you have set up. Nor have we been afraid to say that explicitly. We have the fact that at the start of the government, under Fekter – Khol, you have come across the course of justice, which is often laughed at by experts and which has relativized it, very much approved and have expressly emphasized it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Justice Course Fekter – Khol"!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Only: It then developed something that I didn't fully understand. The first was the statement in which you called something "traceable" at a press conference with Mr. Haider. Well, I've already understood that you may have problems if you're together with someone you're very close to and a statement more or less with the call "Na confirm that!" It is then declared to be a follow-up. Only: They are Minister of Justice and as such a Minister of Justice for all Austrians; and You must therefore be aware of this problem! They have then also distanced themselves from it – I recognise that too. But you can't expect everyone to see this as a matter of course and look beyond it. First point. The second point is the mass complaint and the question of the paper. I can only say one thing: If you bring into the meeting the rules provided for by the Bar, namely the holding of the firm, I may point out that it is primarily intended that if a partner leaves or dies due to age, the reputation of this firm remains for the partnership. Now I do not want to argue that the law firm Böhmdorfer has a reputation – no question – and as a law firm is very successful. But it is something else, if the law firm, which has been under the head of the FPÖ for years now – I say that under quotation – was the "complaint instrumentarium" of the FPÖ, now remains under this head of letter and at the same time the head – the former head – is now in this head of letter by name. I know – I am a lawyer myself – that, of course, other regulations can also be made on a voluntary basis. You are now pretending that you – or actually the colleague Gheneff – were forced to stand in the name of Böhmdorfer, and as if you had not had the opportunity to act differently in order to be really over any doubt here. The judges are certainly not afraid of an impairment! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eben!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Eben!]] But if you have any small request – please, Mr. Ofner! – against anyone who is not so much concerned with justice, and the name of the Minister of Justice is on the paper, yes, I mean, that has a symbolism, a meaning behind this law firm is the Minister of Justice! - That's not a question at all. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Eben!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He is staring at awe, or how do you believe?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I think you can discuss the matter with your colleague once again, perhaps... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mr. Jarolim, you have no problem with Michalek?]] Well, Michalek was not the claimant of a party that took part in it massively, Mr Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He was notary for ten years, active!]] You know very well that this is a completely different quality. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger:... Androsch as a tax advisor!]] I can only say one thing on the question that is being discussed again and again, namely, what the President-in-Office of the Supreme Court Maurer looks like, and what this is a charge on the part of social democracy: There is almost no legal matter other than in media matters such a relation to politics, and thus also to a juror of appreciation, as is the case in this area, because politics is being assessed here and because it has something to do with its own appreciation. Even the appearance that someone could even be caught, but is simply not compatible with the statue of the judiciary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why it was our request that the judicial system should do something on its own, because all of this is in fact unbearable. Since Mr Ofner may also be quoting the President Helige and then I cannot speak, I should like to conclude by quoting Mrs Helige in connection with the FPÖ: "One can also have the size of conducting the political debate without trying the court as a superior judge," says Helige. "Just politicians looking for the hard fight" – that's true for the FPÖ, I think, without a doubt – "they should lead at the political level." [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What does Mrs. Helige say about you?]] [[Abg. Fischl: He doesn't dare to say that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God!]] Finally, it would not replace the plebiscite at the next National Council election.... She goes on to say: "The field of tension between freedom of expression and personal honour and the protection of personal rights..."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11608	Deputies! Your speaking time is exhausted. The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11623	I believe that what the President says speaks for himself. You should perhaps take an example of this and react accordingly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11653	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ofner spoke.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11675	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have a record here, which may explain some things. It is the protocol of a conference that took place not too long ago in the law firm of the lawyer Dr. Lansky. Participants were members of the National Council Dr. Elisabeth Hlavac, a lawyer, a judge – I don't even want to mention the names all –, Dr. Kurt Stürzenbecher – who should perhaps be known in the house – as well as Dr. Johannes Jarolim. This is the question: Comrades, what are we doing to bring more social democratic judges to justice? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What? What's that?]] The point of discussion is the question: What will be discussed in the SPÖ in the next few years in the area of judicial policy? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Keep up...!]] That's what it says in a further episode: The starting point would be the legal practitioners. There would be a more reasonable selection procedure and would also encourage young comrades to go to the judicial service, and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a scandal!]] That's what it's all about! They are trying to return to the offensive at least in a small sector from the Latvian defensive, where you have chosen the Minister of Justice and the Justice. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Worm and Dr. Partik-Pablé]] [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and calls to the liberals.]] But I can tell you from a decades of experience from the judiciary: Judge can't impress you with that! [[Intervoke of Deputies Mag. Worm and Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Böhmdorfer can also write on his paper or on that by Mrs. Gheneff, what he wants [[further calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman]] He will not succeed in impressing a judge or a judge, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] When again and again and again – I am now no longer on the subject of this answer to the question, but on the crocodiles of Terezija Stoisits – Mrs Helige is quoted, I can tell you: Unfortunately not to the full! She's being mis-quoted. For Barbara Helige, whom I have known for a long time, and who is very reticent, says in the release of the press service, which is read over and over again, especially: The association of Austrian judges with President Barbara Helige is opposed to statements and proposals – not by Dieter Böhmdorfer – by SP-Justice speaker Johannes Jarolim! [[Ah-rufe and bravado with the liberals.]] The procedure he is planning represents a step towards bringing the courts into the political debate. - That's it! Just quote! Yes, I do! – [[Mr Jarolim and Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] Then it goes on: The proposal by Jarolim to have the judgments of the media judge Ernest Maurer examined their content scientifically and then to discuss it in Parliament is an inadmissible intervention in the case law and a violation of the separation of violence! But now I'm just saying more than two things – because at some point I have to come to the real issue, to the matter as well – there's a big problem with the psychiatrist and expert, because this is actually happening in the request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... Investigator!]] One thing is not uninteresting when it comes to big: He was probably a National Socialist; at least he was a socialist party member. A criminal proceedings have already been initiated against him: 1948, under the non-party Minister Gerö. This procedure has been suspended in 1951 under the socialist Minister Chadek, SPÖ Head of State of Lower Austria, – another expression cannot be used for this! At that time, Gross was 33 years old, i.e. at the time he could probably have followed every trial with attention and success, but at that time, as a socialist party member, he was apparently outside the possibility of suffering a embarrassing prosecution. This procedure has therefore been tacitly terminated without even having received a report in the relevant areas. [[Mr Jäger and Mr Mag. Worm.]] Let me tell you something else, Mrs Colleague. I am now reading to you – because this is also happening in this area – something on the subject of "My Honor is Faithful". And this is a edition that is designed in such a way that it can be read in great writing: "Our honor is fidelity. Rapid Vienna – the Lions." [[Cheerfulness of Members Gaugg and Fischl.]] I know a few social democrats of high rank – I don't know if one of them is in space; in space I don't see at present, but perhaps I don't know all – the board members of this association are Where is the reputation of social democracy for criminal proceedings against these board members, the "Our Honor is called Faithful" in the issue? – I want to know! [[Abg. Fischl:... don't trust yourself!]] And if you say that all the people with complaints are overshadowed by free representatives, it is worth noting that there are 350 complaints in both directions in the last 15 years, as we have heard from Mr Jarolim's mouth on other occasions. But this is not an indication that much is being complained, but that is an indication that much is being done! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Young.]] Because if you complain wrongfully, you will lose and you will have to pay the costs, and if you rightly complain, you will win. You can't say: There's a lot of complaining, that's a scandal! – It's a lot of insult, and that's the scandal! The action is in a rule of law the means by which one can resist it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11850	As the next speaker, Mrs Fekter spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11872	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The subject of today's parliamentary question debate is "Zeitgeist Rechtrecht", and Mr Stoisits has made massive accusations against Mr Böhmdorfer and the FPÖ, and therefore also against the entire government, constantly quoting Madam President Dr. Helige, as if the President-in-Office shared her criticism. In order to bring a little more materiality into this discussion, I quote the President of the Vienna Newspaper of 21.8.: "It is certainly not that Bohemian influence the case law." Or other quotations "claims that make the judges dependent on the Minister of Justice are incorrect. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It's the "but"!]] In the case law, the judges are not only legally independent, but also in the actual way they are ineffectively sought by parties to the proceedings." . I think I owe it to the President to make it clear that she is being abused by the opposition with her comments here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Helige does not turn so much against the Minister or against the FPÖ or the government, but she turns against the media spectacle – and what you are performing today is equally a spectacle – which the justice generally brings into light, which she has not deserved. As far as your concern, Mrs Stoisits, is concerned, I share her in the same way that I also believe that it would be a very worrying trend if critics, especially political dissidents, were to be covered with complaints. But I would also like to make it clear that this is a political matter; and it is not the style of the ÖVP to cover our critics with complaints! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, Mrs Stoisits, you are dealing with your statements here, in which you have made massive criticism of the actions of the FPÖ, already on very, very thin legal ice. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oils.]] Do you want anyone to agree on the right to complain? Or do you just want to meet with the FPÖ? I think you will have to live with the fact that another party or person, if she thinks she's being treated unjustly, is on the path of complaint. This must also be borne by the critical mind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also believe that the Judicature, the Justice itself, must endure when discussing judgments: whether one is satisfied or dissatisfied with them. I do not think it is justified to strangle any political debate on court judgments. But the debate on judgments must not go so far as to put media pressure on judges in the form of how it happened in the Pelinka judgment when they were subjected to media pressure, but may these judges be relegated. It can't be that someone wants to see what judge is going to go where. This is an inadmissible debate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not at present recognise the one-sidedness that you are proposing with regard to the recent stages of the proceedings. I believe that under Minister Böhmdorfer there was a uniform procedure at the public prosecutor's office, for example also in the proceedings against Schlingensief, who at least called our Federal Chancellor as "high traitor", even as "the high traitor badhin", or who called for the freedom of art with his call "Killet Schüssel!" It is very likely that it has been severely stressed. There has also been an attitude, as has the two other procedures. Thus, there is no one-sidedness that you underlie here, Minister Böhmdorfer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They do not do a good service to the judicial authorities if you constantly bring them into the light, in part, very unilaterally, and partly through false quotations from individuals from the judicial system, which they really do not deserve.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11949	As the last speaker, Mr Oellinger has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e11971	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To this, as I would say, something unacceptable, but especially from the political point of view fatal matter of the Causa Law Office Böhmdorfer – Gheneff allow me, Mr Federal Minister, only one question to [[Call to the liberals: They bring it in!]] You or also to the FPÖ: If the FPÖ or individuals do not want to give up their flood of complaints, why does the FPÖ need a law firm at the top of these times, with the name of the Minister of Justice, which is also credited to the FPÖ? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just because you want it, we won't take it away now!]] Why Use You don't have any other lawyers? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it has to be good! Good law firm!]] Or the other way round, Minister of State: Why don't you speak to your former partner about it, a Council of the retired colleague, that the colleague may by his own initiative abandon the actions of the FPÖ? [[Abg. May. Trattner: But the free choice of lawyers is still in Austria?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Free choice!]] – She may also feed herself in this industry without the actions of the FPÖ if she is a good lawyer. That would greatly simplify the matter, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You will not prescribe which lawyer we take!]] But because Mrs. Helige has been quoted several times here: I do not want to make Mrs. Helige the subject of a Bible examination. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We could take the Prader! The Prader would be a good man!]] But what you have kept silent, Dr. Ofner, is already the sentence she said to "NEWS" and in which it says: It is certainly not that Böhmdorfer influences the case law. But some pictures are created in public opinion, which are no longer to be taken away. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] It is extremely difficult for us judges to stop this. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, are you always holding this up as a judge or judge or unaccompanied, just like I, like some others in the public, when you see a paper of this firm? – This is optics, and they bring [[Abg. Haigermoser: (a newspaper article with the title "Knots of the Future" to the height)Oillinger!]] You don't go! Therefore, the Council to the FPÖ: Quit the services of this law firm! Why do it? You don't, or why don't you talk to your partner? [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are not interested...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf:... colleague Jarolim represented!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But there are also other things: the Causa windwood/schlingensief, which was also clearly addressed in the request answer. You have to imagine this: ==References== June, the Federal Police Directorate to the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office reports that Mr. Schlingensief uses the motto "Our Honor is Faithful". ==References== In June, at lunchtime, the prosecutor's report to the Ministry of Justice probably says that investigations are being started in this Causa Schlingensief. And on the same 16th. In June, at a time of one or two hours, the Minister of Justice takes the phone to inform the editorial staff that the suspicion of national socialist re-acting against Mr Schlingensief is being determined. Minister of Justice! Has You're not a press speaker doing this work? Don't you really have any other concerns, Mr. Justice Minister? – On the day on which the Federal Police Directorate makes the announcement to the Public Prosecutor's Office that this motto is being used, and the Vienna Public Prosecutor's Office immediately says: That's where we're going because of the suspicions. and the Minister of Justice informs the Minister of Justice of the same day, within a few hours – you can calculate how close this time span is – the Minister of Justice takes the listener and informs the newspapers about it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: These are artificial excitements!]] Now I come to the third case, Minister of Justice: the Causa Gross. I can remind myself of a very clear debate. But this Causa Gross employs us in principle 50 years in this Republic, and the justice has slept these 50 years. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oils!]] Contrast I would like to ask you this with this second causa, in which, within a few hours, the Minister of Justice is personally informed for a nullity. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What does Causa Ebergassing say, Oillinger?]] To the Causa Gross please allow me the comment: They write, Minister of Justice, that there are two corresponding opinions to the Court, according to which there is great inability to negotiate with the defendant. [[Abg. May. Trattner: What was in Ebergassing, Oillinger?]] You know, Minister of State, that the expert cannot determine the inability to negotiate; only the court can do so. This note is therefore not correct, Minister of State. The court makes the...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12192	Mr deputies, your speaking time is exhausted. Please get to the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12207	It would be good for you to find in this so sensitive Causa Gross, in which at the time all five parliamentary parties agreed to find something different from those you have found here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Talk time!]] For a person who cannot exercise his rights of defence can also...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12237	Member, come on. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12252	... don't file charges against media at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12283	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12304	We shall now proceed to the joint debate on the following requests: Request Mr Gaugg, Mr Mag. Kukacka and colleagues concerning the establishment of a committee of inquiry pursuant to § 33 para. 1 GOG-NR to investigate political and legal responsibility in relation to the period from 1st to 1st. Years 1995 to 31. December 1999 by the then Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (Bundesministerium für Arbeits und Soziales) (Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs) on the award of public funds to promoters, including their networking to other public bodies as contractors or promoters. The National Council wants to decide: For the purpose of the investigation Political and legal responsibility in relation to the period from 1 January to 1 December. Years 1995 to 31. December 1999 by the then Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs (Bundesministerium für Arbeits und Soziales) (Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs) on the award of public funds to promoters or contractors, including their networking with other public bodies as contractors or promoters. a committee of inquiry consisting of a total of 14 representatives in relation to 5 SPÖ: 4 FPÖ: 4 ÖVP: 1 GRÜNE. The signed representatives shall require, in accordance with §§ 33 para. 2 in conjunction with § 57a and b GOG-NR the conduct of a debate on this request. Request by Mr Oellinger, Mr Kogler, Mr Friends, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry The National Council wants to decide: An investigation committee shall be set up to examine: – Political responsibility for the (missing) control in connection with the award and processing of public contracts to the "Euroteam" group – Procurement, processing and results of the "Euroteam" projects funded, or controlled by the Federal Ministries (Social, Economic, Financial, Scientific, Foreign and Teaching Ministry, BKA) and other public institutions (e.g. the Oesterreichische National Bank, AMS) – Intervention of federal bodies in the award and execution of contracts, projects or subsidies for the benefit of "Euroteam" by: (a) Land services (b) Institutions of the European Union (c) institutions dependent on public subsidies. Request by Mr Brix and Mr Comrades, pursuant to § 33 GOG, on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to S: 5, F: 4, V: 4 and G: 1. Subject of the study: All contracts and project promotions of the Federal Government towards the Euroteam Group Investigation order: By collecting oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files of all the ministries and other federal institutions concerned in connection with the subject-matter of the investigation, the Committee of Inquiry shall examine all matters relating to legal and political responsibilities. These applications have now been distributed to all Members. We are now going into the debate. In line with the agreed procedure, one speaker per group first spoke with a speaking time of 10 minutes, followed by another speaker per group with a speaking time of 5 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. Mr Gaugg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Gaugg, on Your speaking time is therefore 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12424	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The convocation of this special meeting has to be made on the subject and content of informing about the budgetary and financial situation of Austria; it is likely, first of all, to repeat what he heard in the reform dialogue on Friday – perhaps he now understands it a little better. If I allow his speech to happen, I have the good feeling that this socialist financial horror is now having an end through the change of government, thank God, because what you have done with Red Minister of Finance and Red Chancellor in this Republic over the past 30 years is anything but social. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Haven't you been allowed to talk?]] Because that is what you have to answer for, that today a package needs to be presented to consolidate the budget. You and your comrades are solely responsible for this! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Haven't you been allowed to talk at the emergency room?]] This is not only reflected in the large budget figures. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka:... but that's why she doesn't get better!]] What do you want, Mr. Managing Clubman? - Please, Mr Kostelka, I hear. Did you just scream, or did you say something? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Did you say something or just scream? What did you say? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You just have to listen!]] Tell me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Now I can... Please? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That you were obviously not allowed to talk at the emergency! Otherwise you would have...!]] Of course, of course! I just need to tell you one thing: It was a Gaudium for me to listen to a party observer who loses popularity every day. Because you didn't say anything about the budget. It's really... [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Managing Clubman of SPÖ has not been allowed to talk!]] Apparently, yes! There seems to be a ban on speech for some within the SPÖ. That should also be the reason why Mr Edlinger is not present today: because he probably was not allowed to speak to his disaster that he left behind. [[Abg. May. Trattner: Edlinger and his zoo!]] Then this economic waste policy, which you have carried out in large part: I remember the nationalized industry – carried to grave under SPÖ responsibility! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: What does this have to do with it?]] "Consumer" – carried to grave under SPÖ responsibility! Then the question of Bank Burgenland at once is no longer a political one – of course not because it concerns SPÖ politicians once again! This goes down to the party, which also has major financial problems, and to the state budget. How did this come about? – Finally, because billions of amounts have disappeared unilaterally and without control in dubious channels. We can see this today because a small part of the billions of subsidies from the Social Ministry in the past was examined in a subcommittee, namely on the question of "Euroteam", where it was not possible to obtain comprehensively those documents which could not then be denied to the Court of Auditors. Nevertheless, the number of Schillings in the Subcommittee has been 48 million, in connection with Mr. Stühlparrer, whom all of us have met with shame, and who has lost access to the press gallery here – under the name of Gusenbauer, he has failed to have access rights. Finally, this is also in need of information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Under what name was that?]] In any event, all of these measures of ESF funding that you have taken in connection with EU accession will only serve to provide for your fellow workers in the end. Small examples of this: There is a training for eight participants. Eight participants attend a training course and are taught there by five trainers. The total cost for this is 3.8 million schilling – 3.8 million schilling! Maybe a little detail on the edge: The project management costs 837 000 S, the secretariat devours 438 000 S, the fees 900 000 S, the public works 100 000 S, the telephone costs 96 000 S. That's what I'm asking you now: How can a seminar for eight people and five trainers cause telephone costs of 96 000 S? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For eight people? How much?]] – This is just a little detail of your waste policy when you were so generous. Of course travel costs have also been incurred, but not travel costs for the participants to go, but for luxury travel by the managing director of "Euroteam" in the order of speech and writing 220 000 p. Eight participants – 220 000 S in travel costs! In addition, all the companies come together. Mr Klima Son is represented, where the father does not know that he is there, and then publicly declares: If he had known that his son was with the "Euroteam" managing director, someone else would have received the orders. There's a lot to ask! In addition, his secretary was there, Mr. Mock, who called himself "kartiles". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Climate mediated!]] It's really adventurous how it went there. Why did the SPÖ do all of this? – On the one hand, to beautify the labour market data. This meant that people were away from the labour market, but in no way has the purpose been fulfilled to improve the labour market situation in a sustainable way. For this Mr. Chair-Parrestor, who is spirited around there today and is covered with complaints – in court whether there are no fraudulent intentions behind it – has, among other things, the SPÖ Vienna advises – probably about how to repay her debts; or I don't know what they did there. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Häupl!]] At any rate, he advised the SPÖ Wien for 243 hours about whether she should not take an apprentice. Then he advised the children's friends – SPÖ-near – for 343 hours, with the result: zero. Zero apprentices, apprentices neither at the children's friends nor at the SPÖ Vienna – you have to ask yourself what an apprentice should do in these companies that are dying. That's really something you have to ask yourself. One adds: Once he's been successful! He was with a lawyer, at the firm Kraft & Winternitz. There Mr. Chair-Parbar or one of his employees is saying and writing 349 hours for consultation in the firm. That is, he has besieged the firm for half a year – with the result that an apprentice was admitted there. However, one should know that Mr. Winternitz has been a Supervisory Board member in one of the companies of the "Euroteam" company. This is your form of politics! In total, it is ultimately a subsidy paradise for artists in the order of 7 billion schilling. And what is the summit of the whole? – It seems that it was always quite practical, for example, that the Minister of Social Affairs has always come out of the ÖGB area, as was the last time Mrs Hostasch. It has managed, with its predecessors, to give the Austrian Trade Union Confederation 86.5 million Schilling tax money between 1995 and 1999, perhaps out of gratitude, because the ÖGB has for years raised tax evasion to the exemple or to the status, as we all know and as the ÖGB has admitted to it, when it was caught in these things. They therefore receive millions of amounts for dubious support measures, of which no one has anything, except those which receive the support. In the subcommittee we have received insufficient documents. We have also been surprised at the fact that the Greens have always been there live. The secretary of Mr Voggenhuber was there, the club director of the Greens was there – he was always with these companies. The Clean Party in Austria, as you always stand up – with Mr. Ollinger at the top of the greens of the decks – notes in the Subcommittee that the Greens themselves are involved in participating, and more so. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Oh, Oillinger!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] It would also be necessary to ask what purpose these many journeys of the Lord's chair and his comrades have served. He was in Palermo – highly interested: Mr. Chairman and consorts and comrades were in Palermo for apprenticeship training; perhaps they called at the Mafia. They were in Stockholm, they were in Los Angeles, they're all around the world, and they used 96,000 s of telephone costs to eight students. So it's just an adventurous situation. This goes down to a further promotion: There is a subsidy of 6.7 million schilling for a special funding measure to accommodate apprentices. The whole has brought the success of the accommodation of 24 apprentices. The accommodation of these 24 apprentices has cost 280 000 S per course. This is your form of subsidy policy! They know from the work of the Subcommittee that this is the sad truth about how it was handled, and that everyone is very distant. From Mr. Exbundeskanzler Klima to his former friends, everyone has passed by the Lord – except Mr. Gusenbauer: Maybe he'll give him a speech card again when the house ban has been lifted. But I've been assured: The house ban for the managing director of "Euroteam", an old social democrat – as they now call themselves – is lifted. It may therefore appear before the Committee of Inquiry, which we are now requesting. This will bring a lot of light to the public about how you deal with funding millions and taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12647	The next speaker was Mr Brix. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12677	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If I have listened carefully to Mr Gaugg – and I have done so – then I find not only a discrepancy, but at all a complete difference between your speech, in which you have quoted from the Subcommittee, and your request that you have made here by paper. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When, in the summer, "Euroteam" was discussed and some Members of the press were already quoting from the raw report they had come up with, although most of the Members and, above all, those who had commissioned the Court of Auditors – those were the then Federal Chancellor and the then Minister of Social Affairs – did not have the raw report when they quoted it from this raw report, perhaps for some surprisingly, the Social Democrats did not close themselves, but said: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The decks are to blame!]] [[Abg. Gaugg:... have such a fear of it! That's incredible!]] If a committee of inquiry should come here, we will vote in favour of this because we are also in favour of clarifying the matter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Hold the thief!]] For the Social Democrats have never been in favour of concealing or concealing anything. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] We have always stood for a restless reconnaissance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's what we're doing. Just, ladies and gentlemen, High House: When it comes to this, we also need to clarify the "Euroteam" of the Causa. But that's all that's part of it. [[Abg. Gaugg: Everything! Let's go!]] This includes not only the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also the Federal Chancellery, which is part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The municipality of Vienna!]] If it is necessary – I am of your opinion – then everything is part of it, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and the many others who have also awarded orders to "Euroteam". Ladies and gentlemen! Why is Mr Gaugg speaking something different here than the motion for a resolution? Why does this request not deal with the "Euroteam"? [[Abg. Gaugg: You can compare the application! I don't need to read it again!]] Why is this request explicitly concerned with the Social Ministry? Why does this request explicitly deal with the examination of the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour? What would happen? You are saying, Mr Gaugg, if the Chamber of Labour has rightly received funds and if the ÖGB has legitimately received funds or if the Chamber of Agriculture has legitimately received funds? [[Abg. Gaugg: ÖGB – 86 million – tax evasion!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: But not tax money is given to the ÖGB that they can withdraw taxes!]] Only that this accounts for the Chamber of Agriculture over the Ministry of Agriculture – then we should also examine the Ministry of Agriculture! It would be interesting where the millions will be pushed everywhere. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gradwelt has already said today that a few hundreds of millions will receive and most of the farmers will be subsidized with a price of not even 50,000 s a year. The subsidies granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and distributed by the Chamber of Agriculture – according to the motto: if you are with me, then I am with you, then you get a lot; if you are not with me, then I am not with you, then you will not get anything – this is a distribution method that we should check. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ÖGB!]] Or we should check what the Federal Chamber of Commerce has put everything in the hands of resources distributed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But you don't want to. They don't even want to check the "Euroteam" again, but You just want to examine the Chamber of Workers and the union! High house! In view of the last decisions taken, which were clearly directed against the workers and employees, against the pensioners or against the small people in this country, and in the light of those coming decisions you will still make, this aims to ensure that the workers' chambers or the ÖGB do not only want to cut funds, but it aims to do so – if they are put into doubt here now, if they are also called upon to do so – that the workers' chamber and the union association simply want to make them mouth-dead! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You want the destruction of the Chamber of Workers here! You want to break down the union union! They want to make this representation of workers and employees quite simply mouth-dead. But believe me: We will not let that happen, and you will not be able to kill us! And if you bring it together with so much majority of votes to reach disadvantages for the workers and employees here in this house, we will still have that voice to defend it. That will be our task! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your show, your theatre, which you perform here as the great friends of democracy, is thus already ad absurdum to perform or already ad absurdum: Why do you, who have such a large majority in this House, not join in our request that a minority of this House, which has a quarter of the Members of this House, should be able to set up a committee of inquiry? – Because with our strength, which is far more than a quarter, we could then set up a committee of inquiry to carry out the review of the funds, the funding of the Federal Chamber of Commerce and a review of the funding of the Chamber of Agriculture! [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: They are checked by the Court of Auditors!]] You don't want that. They're talking about democracy... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: They are checked by the Court of Auditors – you don't even know that!]] Very good, thank you, colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Don't you have confidence in the Court of Auditors?]] Do you know that the Court of Auditors could simply examine the ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs, whether the allocation of funds has been properly carried out? Then why bring the application? Why do you make the request when the Ministries are checked? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: These are very concrete abuses! That's where misconceptions have become known!]] What abuses? – You have written in your request, you want to control what resources they have allocated. On the other hand, you say: The Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Economic Affairs will be examined by the Court of Auditors, but an investigation should be carried out there. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Based on Parliament's decisions!]] Look... [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Do you already know the difference between free and available resources? Do you know that?]] These are cheap tricks you use here! Just as you need the sanctions to distract from all other topics in Austria, so you need new tricks and new shows to distract you from the concerns of the Austrians. That's just your method! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I therefore make a request with my friends from my group to set up a committee of inquiry. The request has been distributed so that I do not need to read it now. In doing so, we want to examine everything related to the "Euroteam" all the Ministries. If you do not agree with this proposal, which is really objective, then I know that it is only a matter of performing a distraction theatre here from your scrapping methods.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12941	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Kukacka.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e12966	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Brix! We're not about distraction. We do not need that, this has proved to be the day today. I would like to call you, Mr Colleague: Don't worry! Don't panic at Titanic! It's even worse, I'm telling you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] We are not talking about distractions, we are talking about information, and you will not be able to close this information either! If I read through your request – and, by the way, the Greens’ request – then I think that you can calmly agree to our request, because in the intention, we are essentially in agreement, only: Our request goes beyond what you want. [[Interlocutory calls from Mrs Schwemlein and Mr Gaál.]] They want a concentration only on the "Euroteam". Here you can no longer change, because the suspicions are so intense that you can no longer escape a committee of inquiry without being suspected from the outset that you want to hide something here. That's what it looks like! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But we want to go beyond the "Euroteam", ladies and gentlemen! We want to explore the entire award practice of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also – and that is what I am saying here – we want to involve networking with all other public authorities. So we're not afraid of looking: In connection with the "Euroteam", has the Ministry of Economic Affairs also granted it? Why did it give them, and at what height did it give them? And: Do you need to hide a comparison with the Ministry of Social Affairs for some reason? [[Abg. Edler: That's what we're looking at! That's what we're looking at!]] We represent this, we will examine it, because we have nothing to hide in this regard! We have a pure vest, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can therefore only ask you, Mr Colleague: Voices Let us ask you to do this. [[Abg. Edler: The Minister!]] For we are not concerned with a cheap blackmailing of former SPÖ Social Ministers, who have long disappeared in the political Nirwana, and we do not want to blackmail an ex-Bundeskanzler, who now has to earn his bread abroad. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Murauer]] Nor do we want a SPÖ who, as we have seen again today, still suffers massively from the shock of the loss of power. We are simply looking into this dubious support policy of the past, so that precisely these mistakes, these paintings will no longer occur in the future! We do not want to get into the same smell as the Social Democrats – that is the motive of our work, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to enforce objective, transparent, verifiable and party-politically independent promotion practices in the future, and we therefore want to take a very close look at: Are our laws, our regulations, our releases and our guidelines sufficient? We want to draw lessons from a bad past, ladies and gentlemen! That's our motive, and we won't let that stop us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edler: Weapons purchase!]] The fact that there are serious shortcomings is no longer to dispute. This has only recently been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors' subcommittee, which has found that a large number of support measures, particularly by the Ministries and, above all, by the AMS, have not achieved their intended purpose of reducing the number of unemployed or improving the employment situation, but in particular, have only led to the beauty of unemployment statistics. That was your concern on this issue! It has also been found that considerable funding has been provided in some very dubious support actions and that they have not been comprehensiblely flown to companies and institutions which have a clear proximity to SPÖ. This too cannot be disputed, and this will show this committee of inquiry very clearly and clearly, ladies and gentlemen. Then, too, what is now obvious will come to light, namely that not the commandments of sparingness, economy and effectiveness have been met. But this cannot be taken by a Parliament as the control body of government and administration without comment, especially in the future! It will be our task to counter this, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the "Euroteam" is concerned, it is clear and now clear that the first repeated overrun of specified deadlines in the implementation of the project has been established that there has been a failure to meet tender requirements, that the conclusion of funding agreements only months after the subsequent promoter has begun the project, that there have been multiple changes in the project accounts and that there has often been multiple funding of the same project. For example, the raw report by the Court of Auditors, which is now before us, shows what dubious powers it has been here, ladies and gentlemen. And suddenly, there is no more talk of 47 million Schilling, as was found in the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, but of 118 million Schilling, with whom this project was promoted. So I wonder, Who actually lied to Parliament's subcommittee? Because only in this way can these different figures have come about! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If, in an official Parliament document of 47 million schillings, it is now 118 million at once, then it is obvious that something has been missed here – at least information! – That is what we must do, and we will be embarrassingly informed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Schieder:... Ministry of Economic Affairs! You're not going to explain that because you're not investigating the Ministry of Economic Affairs! The awards in the Ministry of Economic Affairs will not be examined!]] We will no longer allow dubious associations to be promoted in the future. We are all thinking of the "TATblatt", Mr. Colleague, and of the shackles of the Social Democratic Party, even of an interior minister who has given a private donation to this dubious association. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who was that? That must have been the dead end!]] We remember that there have been associations that have been promoted against the German army: a working group for conscientious objectors who have called for non-compliance with military laws, or an association "School of Peace" that has previously received support from the GDR-Stasi – all the associations that have been promoted by the Social Ministry under the "Action 8000", ladies and gentlemen! That will not happen in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call to the liberals:Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much to be said about this issue, but we will discuss this more often than once in this House. [[Abg. Edler: What do you say to Habsburg?]] Nobody, ladies and gentlemen – in conclusion on the subject of ÖGB – wants to make the ÖGB mouth dead. But if ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour get more than 160 million schillings for legal advice in connection with EU integration in a year from the Ministry of Social Affairs, with legal opinions, then I wonder if there is a double funding here, whether 180 million schilling has not been promoted here, which is actually only a right of the Chamber of Labour and in which it is not at all clear why this is an additional work worthy of funding, because it is nevertheless in the law that the Chamber of Labour has this task! So it's not about the workers' chamber or the ÖGB...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13133	Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13159	... to be mouth-dead, but to make it clear that they should focus on their tasks and that the taxpayer cannot give money for the purposes and measures of the union and the Chamber of Labour, while they see it as a political task to take mobile action against a democratically elected government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13189	The next speaker is Mr Karl Ollinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13213	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you know that we have actually entered into this debate in the light of what I mean, quite unhappyly formulated, but with the intention of accepting this request? The more we pursue the debate and the more we hear about what you really want to investigate – everything and nothing – the more it becomes clear, however, that it is impossible to obtain this test order only somehow a note that makes it meaningful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] I'll explain it to you. This is not Polish, it is not evil, but I am telling you the story of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. If Mr Gaugg could just listen a little bit, maybe even sometimes he could read a book, he would know more. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: He can't!]] When the Subcommittee started – and the audit task of this Subcommittee was similar, although not quite as extensive as the audit task you are now trying to miss – I informed the representatives of all other opposition parties that we want to make the Causa "Euroteam" the subject of this subcommittee. This was not explicitly defined as the sole subject of the Subcommittee. Mr Gaugg did not believe this, but he went through his remarks in the context of his first speech – he might remember – across the vegetable bed! Something's going to be already! Somewhere the "gauners", the "basons", the "red mades in the bacon" and what else I know – what he likes to use in such questions – are inside. He then, as did the representatives of the other opposition parties, as well as the government parties, had to note that working in such a committee makes sense only if the subject-matter of the investigation is taken quite precisely. And now I come to the subject of your request, namely the request of the government parties: Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! This book does not happen by chance [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] "The climate connection", because our thesis, which we have also tried to harden – and I think it has succeeded, Mr Kukacka – was: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: A good book! The only good book, the...!]] The headquarters for most issues in the Causa "Euroteam" including apprenticeship offensive was the Federal Chancellery. What you're doing now is this: The Federal Chancellery is under the table. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No! On the contrary!]] The Ministry of Social Affairs is for you the main point, and that is, at least as far as the Causa "Euroteam" is concerned, quite in addition! You're out of your mind! You have no idea what you want to investigate! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] If you only took the Causa "Euroteam" seriously, ladies and gentlemen – Mr Kukacka, you can hardly tell me anything in the Causa "Euroteam"! – and for my part also some of the other accusations you have put into space, but cannot prove, and in which no one in this House is even aware of whether there is something criminal, something politically traceable or anything else in this House! They are just saying something, and that is in principle the thinnest air that should ever have been compacted into a committee of inquiry! That's the thinnest air! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Oils, let's surprise you!]] I can recall numerous debates on committee of inquiry. There we already had the Causen up to the criminal relevance on the table. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You don't want all the left-green clubs...!]] People disappeared from the country, were covered with the help of the police, and you said: Well, the judge may find something, but we can't investigate anything before the criminal investigations are completed. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What do you have to hide at..., Mr. Oillinger?]] And what do you say now? – We realize that maybe something is lazy, but we don’t know. But we'll find something. – This is the subject of your investigation, ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to prove it to you on the basis of another causa in this regard. They take "Euroteam" as an entry into a research subject Social Ministry. That's what I'm telling you: Should I be right? I don't have a problem with that. Only: Then take this seriously! The reason why you cite the Social Ministry as an object of investigation for questionable promotion and order practices is a subsidy from the Social Ministry to the Chamber of Workers and ÖGB. All right, I'll tell you, I'll be right. Let's take a look at this: Is that clean? Is this based on appropriate legal basis? – You can look at that. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, that the question must be asked, even for the members of ÖVP and FPÖ: On the other hand, if, on the other hand, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture, may have received funds for similar or equivalent activities, why don't we look at everything? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Will everything come to the table!]] And a second question, Mr President-in-Office, what is the subject of an investigation committee? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Why not all the ministries?]] You should know that best. Did the Federal Chamber of Commerce use any suspicious practices? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What do you have to hide?]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It's on the table!]] Yes or no? You will say: No, no, no, – I don't know any reason, but maybe it is. – But then please write in it that we also want to examine the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry and the Chamber of Agriculture, not because of all the possible funding they have received, but limited to what you accuse of the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB: that they receive funding in connection with information and hearing rights! Write this in! Because it can't be – that's almost ridiculous – that I say, when I know that the social partners are getting money for the same business, but from different ministries: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The ÖGB is a private club!]] One I look at – although there is nothing problematic about that – but the other one we don't look at. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We would investigate that too!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The subject is the Social Ministry, and the Ministry of Social Affairs clearly does not receive any money from the Federal Chamber of Commerce for the information... [[Abg. Dr. stupid:... the wifis!]] The Wifis are not interested in the issue of information and consultation on EU laws! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Otherwise, the Chamber will not get anything!]] This is clearly defined, but you have still not considered the request. It's not about us looking at everything, because when we look at everything, we don't look at anything! Please take this as an advice from a member of the opposition: A committee of inquiry must also have an object, a limitable subject matter! If you make a point: we look at all the ministries, then that's nothing, and above all, there's no blame there! What is the subject of a committee of inquiry, "we look at all the ministries"? – You should have done this day after day in recent years to look at all the ministries! This is not an issue for a committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You should work here, not just because you just want to beat a party or a representative of interest! They say: We're going to do it now, and it's being beat up. – Where are we? We're not in a state of arbitrariness! It should therefore not be possible for an item of the test to be found at random. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol! If you really have a committee of inquiry that makes sense, then limit If you apply the test order, then throw something concrete before the Chamber of Labour, then make "Euroteam" and, in my opinion, a second example from the area of the Social Ministry the subject of a test order! But don't do everything and nothing to be the subject of an investigation commission for an investigation committee, for a sharp instrument that will prove to be ineffective in this case, as you have formulated the order!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13485	I would draw attention to the fact that the next speaker will each be given 5 minutes of speaking time. Next speaker is Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13512	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to deal with the statements made by Mr Brix, who claimed that the SPÖ has always been for the clarification and never for the cover-up. These statements are on the usual line. – Whenever a scandal of the SPÖ has been flooded to the surface, then it has not been clarified, but then has been walled and distracted! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Brix is likely to have a very strong memory gap if he thinks that the SPÖ would never have been to cover up. [[Abg. Young: A selective one!]] In fact, it looks different – I remember the last scandals: Airport, DDSG, Landesbank. Your strategy was not to have the matter examined by the Court of Auditors for six years! – So there is no mention that you have ever been for education, but your strategy is: Just don't admit anything! And of investigations in your department you don't think anything at all! If Mr Brix thinks that we only want to organise a show when it comes to this committee of inquiry, I must say to you: The population will have little understanding that you call this a show when over 100 million schillings in tax money have been misused! I think you should be a little more careful. [[Abg. Brix: We want to investigate "Euroteam"! You don't want to do that with your request!]] No, not at all, but we want to investigate exactly what happened! As has been pointed out, Mr Brix – and you know it very well – there have been a number of cases of mismanagement, of the economy of friends. It is one of your kind to make politics, to give other financial benefits through the economy of friends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brix.]] We're really used to this from the past. To Mr Oellinger I would like to say: They should not have looked at the application in detail, because the objective of the Committee of Inquiry is clearly defined in the application. It is clear what the Committee of Inquiry will look into, what its objective is. I can now only consider it as a maneuver to possibly not have to agree that you are criticizing the request. One thing is clear: the "Euroteam" issue was the starting point for our request, because it is one of these mismanagement projects, which have been presented under the so-called "job offensive". The then Federal Chancellor climate has said that something has to be done for the apprentices. In fact, however, it was money allocations to SPÖ party artists that took place there, in an order of magnitude, which is very important: 118 million schilling – as the Court of Auditors has now revealed – were the ones that flowed there. The whole story has begun with a great announcement: We must do something for youth employment! It should be a common, solidaric effort. But then it has become something that has brought nothing at all for the future of youth, but for the financial presence of some SPÖ members a very good return. Let us take a look at this, Mr Brix: why it could actually happen that there has been a network of artists who have given themselves to the orders that were precisely informed by ministers who were also employed in the "Euroteam" in some way and who knew which orders were awarded, what there is to be, but without doing so. We already know from the Court's raw report that the corresponding contractual performance has been achieved in almost no single contract. [[Abg. Brix: You know it from the raw report! We don't know the raw report!]] - Well, it's been published. It's a press service of the APA from which I quote. [[Abg. Brix: It's interesting that you know it!]] . The Court of Auditors suspects that invoices have twice been filed that private travel to Rome or Palermo has been charged that there has been a double calculation in ministries that incompetent employees have contributed to the fact that expensive hourly wages have been charged for simple assistants. [[Abg. May. Trattner: (in the direction of Abg. Brix) Don't be artificial!]] [[Abg. Brix: Where does your request say you want to check "Euroteam"?]] – This is all the result of an APA communication. Mr Brix, I have actually assumed that the SPÖ has learned from the great scandals of the eighties, in which it was involved, and that you will no longer mix politics and economy, but that you will really keep order... [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13633	Your speaking time is over, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13648	... – this one sentence still – but the "Euroteam" project has shown that it obviously belongs to your policy to abuse the power. That is why I am very glad that you are no longer in the government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13679	The next speaker was Mr Peter Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13725	Ladies and gentlemen! It is really a memorable day that we have to celebrate today. Imagine: There is a direct transfer in this House on the subject of the budget programme just presented, and this government and its representatives have nothing better to do than talk about something else! Do you know what I'm gonna end up with? – You are clearly aware of the weaknesses of this budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] Temelin is an important topic. But to cut Temelin when it comes to defending this budget is to know from the outset: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: They didn't let you talk at the emergency!]] It's undefensible! The same is the case with this Committee of Inquiry: You want to discuss the investigation committee here and hope that it will be in the tomorrow newspapers in such letters: greater than the weaknesses of your budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: With this post you don't even come to the "ZiB 3"!]] What methods do you use? You are working, ladies and gentlemen, we have just seen this in Mrs Partik-Pablé's speech. When the reports of an Court of Auditors' raw paper were in the newspapers, Mr Brix asked the President of the Court of Auditors in writing the question of whose copy it is in this context. – Yes, Mr Khol! – The President of the Court of Auditors has answered this letter, and he has written that it is clearly the copy of the Federal Minister for Finance Grasser: that copy which Mr Westenthaler has published in legal and constitutional terms and which now quotes Mrs Partik-Pablé. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Ah! Now we know!]] They make up the so-called scandals themselves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If that's enough for the imaginatives, I can still wait with some of them: In this context, you, Mr Puttinger, have said – but also others of your colleagues, such as Kukacka, have noticed – that networking can also be examined. – Yes, what networkings? – Networking with the awards of the Ministry of Social Affairs! That means: Only if there is an award from the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Committee of Inquiry may examine in the relevant context. I'll tell you what the simple solution is: It is only to be examined where former Social Democratic ministers are responsible. If the same one has done an ÖVP minister, then there is nothing worthy of investigation at all. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have been quite ready – I explained this at a press conference – to agree to the Committee of Inquiry on the condition that the entire area – also the areas of responsibility of Chancellor Schüssel, Federal Minister Gehrer, by Federal Minister Bartenstein – is examined. But you don't want that! Ladies and gentlemen! It's relatively simple: What you can investigate, you don't want to, and what you want to investigate, you can't justify that. You cannot therefore justify it because you have formulated in this context a subject of investigation, which is so far as it is not even possible for you to put concerns on the table here. We will be very cooperative in the Committee of Inquiry. It's about the matter. But you are concerned about the political theatre and nothing else at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last comment: 180 million schilling a year had been given to the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB. – So much in the year, colleague Maderthaner, not even ÖGB, the Chamber of Workers, the Federal Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture together. Only the whole agreement is based on the agreement between Busek and Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Is that the first investigation committee you use here? [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What?]] – And if not an investigation committee of Busek in this context, I would really ask you to speak a serious word with your Minister of Social Affairs...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13829	Your speaking time is over, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13844	I have here an explicit confirmation from the Ministry of Social Affairs that the amount of support has been used accordingly and therefore the discharge has been granted. This was explicitly confirmed by Federal Minister Sickl in today's conversation. In your own ministries, look for the documents you obviously do not know!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13877	The next speaker was Mr Josef Drinkl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e13925	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! This is indeed a memorable day, because the elimination of misunderstandings is the most excellent and best way to put the budget in order. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you are so easily handling more than 118 million schillings, which are suffocated somewhere in the "Euroteam" area, in the Social Democratic Empire "Euroteam", if you're so easily going about it then I can only regret you. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka:... Your consent! Read the request!]] Then it's right that you sit where you sit today. [[Abg. Gradwell:... this is the problem!]] Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can say something: It is not about, even if it should not be precise and fine, who might pass on a report because it burns it under the nails, but it is about what is in it – and that is what you want to cover up! We won't let that happen. You're doing this today. What is not known must not have happened. – It is known that it has happened and that is why this Committee of Inquiry is so important! It has also been claimed: Well, it wasn't proved. – Please, there is now a Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, and there is a report on this. There is clearly evidence in the report, ladies and gentlemen, that there have been crimes. But Mr Bundeskanzler Klima and Mrs. Hostasch have gone a step further: They have requested or given a Court of Auditors test order, and this Court of Auditors order had been washed. I quote from the "Format" of 31.7 this year: No order to "Euroteam" has been filed. No one order could prove a performance. 118 million schilling on orders, no performance – the colleague said earlier that a single apprentice was pushed up there –: [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] I congratulate you very much! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: scandal!]] The whole action was under "The Youth One Chance". Okay, we might be able to attribute this to the youth of Mr. Pearce. But we had this chance for the youth, please, not in mind! And another one: It has been said here, Mr Oellinger, that there would have been ESF funding for the Institute of Economic Development, and of course there has been funding for the ÖGB and the Chamber of Labour. We want to examine this here, we want to take a closer look at it. I'm sure – the comparison makes you sure – we have nothing to cover up. If, on the other hand, there is nothing to cover up, then I do not understand the excitement here at all, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Brix said that we want to get a show here. . We have far too big problems to solve for this country, and we don't have time to take off a show here. But, ladies and gentlemen, when in the Court's report, under the heading "office material" there were flowers, taxi rides – listen carefully! –, billed leather care and cosmetics bags, then I fear that this show could become a horror show if we look even more closely in here. That's what we want to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If in this only conglomerate of funding "Euroteam" so many abuses appear, then – and we are very sorry – there is really the suspicion and the fear that this ministry has been very generously dealt with the taxpayer's money. That is exactly what we want to do, and here I ask you to participate in the opposition. You can do a good job yourself by drawing a final line under the past and laying a new ground for social democracy. In this sense, I ask you to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14039	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Werner Kogler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14072	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a strange parliamentary spectacle, which is true here. We have often observed that – and this is very problematic in the matter of control – the majority groups that the government represents, one – admittedly – of a former government group with its majority decisions, so to speak, want to flick on the stuff. I think the process is problematic. – This only as an entry in advance. [[Abg. Boy: How?]] In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, the case with a turning government is actually another. A liberal government has been replaced by a red-green government. This is known to be different here in Austria. A turning policy has happened at a surprising speed, but the construction of the government is only half a turn, because it still contains half of the old government leaders. This is indeed a problem in matters of control and in connection with the establishment of parliamentary investigation instruments. I do not, regardless of our voting behaviour, avoid blaming the ÖVP that it is difficult to act unanimously here, equipped with its now known memory gaps. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The FPÖ supports this, of course. Starting with the initiative of the Social Ministry in this case – should "Euroteam" really be the main subject of investigation – is completely wrong. Their interest is obviously quite different. It is their interest to achieve the control of the Ministry of Social Affairs that certain SPÖ-near institutions should be criticized and controlled accordingly – but at first one cannot have anything if there are any such abuses. But that you want to push this through in this one-sidedness is worrying. In particular, as long as the Committee of Inquiry and the establishment of the same majority right are concerned, you are persistently refusing to make the setting up of committee of inquiry a minority right. This is the real problem that arises in this context. In short, to the Causa itself: In fact, it is precisely the case that ÖVP ministries – four in the number, of course, so much we know – are equally involved and that your request for a test is made more difficult to control. However, we will nevertheless agree because we hope that in the context of a solid and successful work – and we can certainly support you – the audit order can be interpreted in such a way that all the ministries involved can also be checked. But I'll tell you one thing: The former Minister of Economic Affairs is at least as involved as a number of red ministers. We're not going to let you do this one-way! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last thing in this context: It is indeed frightening, as in this House, to pay homage to the spirit of the government bank, so to speak. Today, it has been heard several times that individual Members here have regularly thanked Chancellors and present ministers for their budgetary policy and other meaningful contributions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Holiness!]] In the question, if the same majority... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Holiness!]] It's not polite, it's a dangerous subjugation! This is a bad story in parliamentarianism, Mr Westenthaler, if the same majority choose what they want to investigate. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Basic courtesy!]] If we now have to deal with a party in the government, which wants to remember nothing more, because it cannot look back on its reversing policy, and another who still supports it, then another opposition party will need it, or one that has not yet been involved in this painting, and which can truly make an effective control here. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: What do you have to cover up?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Voggenhuber!]] We shall take action to ensure that, Mr Westenthaler, this disaster in the subcommittee on the Vranitzky affair, which your group is responsible for, does not repeat. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Voggenhuber would be witness!]] We will see that something can happen in this Committee of Inquiry and, of course, invite you to agree to the actual "Euroteam" study committee request, which at least includes a clear audit order. You will have to answer for the failure of the request that you submit – if this investigation committee does not continue. But we will do our best for the Enlightenment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14212	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate on applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry has ended. We shall come to the vote, which I shall carry out separately from each request. First of all, we are voting on the request by Mr Gaugg, Mr Mag. Kukacka and comrades on the establishment of an investigation committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. The request was accepted. Next, I shall vote on the request by Mr Oellinger and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I should like to ask all those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, I have to vote on the request made by Mr Brix and Mr Comrades for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is also the minority. The application is rejected. Decision to terminate the 2000 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14277	In agreement with the political groups, I now put the following request to the House: Request The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXI in 2000. legislative period with Wednesday, 6. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14316	In order to allow for the immediate completion of this decision, I shall, in accordance with a written request from 20 Members, read the relevant part of the Official Protocol so that it may be deemed approved at the end of the meeting. This is: "At the request of Dr Kostelka, Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, Dr. Van der Bellen and Comrades, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXI in 2000. legislative period with Wednesday, 6. September 2000 to be declared terminated." Issue objections to the text or the Content of this Part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The relevant part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, with the end of the sitting, as approved. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-09-05-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00035_d7e14349	I announce that in today's sitting there were questions from 1178/J to 1232/J. The sitting is closed.
