ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e923	Ladies and gentlemen! I can warmly welcome you and open the 26th in due course. Meeting of the National Council. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gerhard Bauer, Ortlieb, Vergestnitsch, Schieder und Ing. Maderthaner. [[See also p. 15.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e960	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office issued the following communication on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government: Ms. Federal Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner was represented by the Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e990	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1170	Before entering the agenda, I announce that Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has requested the Constitutional Committee to report to the Commission on the application 102/A (E) for a period of five years. In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, It is in this context that of five Members according to § 43 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a short debate be held on this request for a time limit. Normally, this brief debate will take place at 3 p.m. However, since we have two sittings today and the first one in which we are dealing with the drinking tax question will last my expectation after about four hours, the short debate will take place after the end of this first sitting in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The 15-hour date is therefore not safe in this case. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1200	As regards the agenda, which consists of three points, it is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then points 1 to 3 should be summarized. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1224	I can go into the agenda and report that consensus was reached in the presidential session on the following procedure: Voluntary time limits are proposed, namely SPÖ 90 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP per 50 minutes and Green 40 minutes. The total speaking time of government members and State Secretarys should not exceed 20 minutes. In the event of an overrun, the opposition parties shall be granted additional speaking time to the same extent. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed in this way on the basis of this unilateral determination. 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (87 of the Supplements): The Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Fees Act 1957, the Capital Tax Act, the Beer Tax Act 1995, the Alcohol Tax and Monopolis Act 1995, the Sparkling Tax Act 1995 and the General Administrative Procedure Act 1991 and the Financial Compensation Act 1997 and introduces an advertising charge (101 of the Supplements) 2. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the Financial Balance Act 1997 (102 of the Supplements) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on the motion for a resolution 56/A (E) by Dr Alexander Van der Bellenand Comrades on the compensation of municipalities for the loss of drinking tax (103 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1288	We come to points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda, which are being negotiated under one. There is no wish for oral reporting. That's what I'm going to get into the list of speakers. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Heindl. The clock is set to 12 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1316	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In advance, because it is always said that we are not prepared to cooperate with the opposition: For weeks now, we have been hearing about negotiations on the drinking tax regime. ==References== May we were visited for the first time by the President of the Municipal Association – I was referred to as the chairman of the Financial Committee. ==References== A meeting of the Financial Committee took place in May, and today this issue is on the agenda. So because of a lack of willingness to cooperate. [[Abg. Head: As a Vienna very selfless! The tears are coming to me!]] I do not say this critically, I just want to say that if you are looking for the way to us in good time, we are willing to do everything we can to respond to the relevant concerns of affected groups – and these are essentially cities and communities. That's just ahead of the procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How did this situation come about? – A judgment of the European Court of Justice lifted the tax on beverages in its current form. This gives rise to a very critical situation for the cities and municipalities, which is aggravated by the reduction of advertising, which also means a huge loss of revenue. This new situation not only affects cities and communities, it affects the entire tourism industry, whether business or hotelers, and it ultimately affects consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! I am just curious about what you will say in your creativity when you add words to these tax increases, whether these are just "adjustments" again. You have to imagine: Alcohol tax: instead of 100 S 138 S per litre, sales tax for pouring drinks in the gastronomy: Increase from 10 to 20 percent, coffee and tea in trade: Increase from 10 to 20 percent, beer tax: instead of 2.40 S 3.44 S per litre, and more. You sent us a request last night with various changes. And that is what I do not understand: that we are not prepared to bring about some sort of reasonable regulation for those concerned if there are already tax increases. On the grounds of this request, I quote: "In the case of pastries or bakeries, food is supplied without special preparation..." I make it shorter so that the listeners or those who do not deal with it understand: If you buy a chicken in a sackerl in the confectionery "Aida", you pay 10 percent VAT. If you consume it in the business, you pay 14 percent. At the sausage stand, you will definitely pay 14 percent. So I don't know who to remember. Mr State Secretary! I would ask – I come to talk about it once again when it comes to advertising – that you create clarity on this question with a decree, because it is not about huge amounts. It is about creating reliefs, ladies and gentlemen. That must be in all of our interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Böhacker! When it came to this, that these measures actually bring something fiscally, I would say, okay, we need money, do that. But these are peanuts, as you say, beautiful, and you're annoying people with them. It is not only annoyed that they are meant to be increased, but also with the form in which they are collected. Ladies and gentlemen! The main focus, however, is on the difficult situation of the cities and municipalities. For some, such as the tourism community of Lech am Arlberg, the revenue from the drinking tax means 40 and more percent of their budget. This is, of course, a very dramatic situation. This government has come up with the claim to maintain a new style of governance. In the discussion on the replacement of the drinking tax, it becomes clear once again what "rerule" means: It does not apply to what is written, it does not apply to what is said, but to something else, and that is done. And some of the people affected – I am constantly listening to particularly intense discussions with those concerned – are not at all involved, such as the Urban Federation. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Böhacker, the town government was not there at all during some discussions. I asked myself because I didn't want to believe it, because I thought it couldn't be true that some groups aren't involved. But, unfortunately, God is true. We measure you by your actions, ladies and gentlemen – and not by your statements! The ÖVP has always declared itself a mayor party, most recently only in the elections in Lower Austria. But what does it really look like? – Until a few days ago, the President of the Federal Government referred to the existing proposal concerning the replacement of the drinking tax – I quote, I would not say that, I quote what President Mödlhammer says: "All our proposals were rejected as unacceptable. The replacement solution is a painful compromise." What will be understood, ladies and gentlemen, if you know what it means: 1.2 billion schilling less revenue for Austrian cities and communities. However, the situation is particularly acute in the current budget year. We know that the scheme for the year 2000 is not the same as Mödlhammer and the representatives of the local government believed that it was agreed. The outrage is therefore understandable, the regulation is very resistant. According to their own statements, the President of the Municipal Government feels heavily deceived by the process of the government. He means, in turn, literally: "This is totally unacceptable for the Austrian community. The mood in the communities is already very appealing. If the Finance Ministers and the Federal Government do not speak on their behalf, the municipalities will consider serious measures ranging from protests to investment stops." Ladies and gentlemen! New Style of Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But also in the tourism industry it wants it. There are complaints about distortion of competition. There is simply a lack of understanding among those concerned. We therefore really do not understand why we are seeking a compromise that is really none. It is usually said that a compromise is good if everyone is criticised. Only in this case is it: Cities and communities get less, consumers pay more, and the tourism industry is taxed. This is a compromise I have to say, as you have to show me first how this should work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: That was a contradiction in itself!]] Again on the question of style, ladies and gentlemen. I did not want to believe it when President Mödlhammer answered us in this conversation to the question of how the whole should work: Look, we've been told: Either you accept this proposal or you won't get anything! - Please, is this a style, ladies and gentlemen? Is this the way to negotiate with such important representatives? [[Abg. Böhacker: No one said that!]] There were a lot of people in this conversation, I wasn't alone, otherwise you could say Heindl is dreaming. It was a lot when Murderhammer told us this sentence. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a style of dealing with such important institutions as communities and cities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We Socialists have always expressed the view that it is unacceptable to bring cities and communities into a veritable situation, because the cities and communities are precisely those local authorities in which we all live, live and have their food point. And what are we doing? – We pretend that this is not important. By "we" I now mean those who will decide this law. We from SPÖ will not decide, ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said a remarkable sentence in connection with the drinking tax last week – I still have that in my ear –: Old tax – good tax. – That was the statement of the head of government. Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous year, so that it doesn't say again, the Edlinger is guilty... – Yes, I know, Mr Westenthaler, I would notice it if you said something else. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But he's to blame! He didn't do anything!]] You should get a little more creative, because now it's fad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: How long will it take you to confess to your politics?]] Ladies and gentlemen! When it was made clear last year that the drink tax would not be held before the European Court of Justice, the Social Democratic parliamentary group made similar considerations to those of the Federal Chancellor. We said: Let us make a replacement solution, which is before the European Court of Justice and which basically does not change anything essential. Of course, we would have needed a constitutional provision. What did our coalition partner say? – Let’s not even talk about it, that’s not a topic! More: In a letter to the local officials of the Austrian People's Party (Austrian People's Party), Mr. Khol claimed that our proposal to bind the drinking tax is counterproductive and pointless. That was in your letter. With this claim, you, Mr Khol, are blaringly in contradiction with all the experts at the municipal level, at the national level and at the federal level. We have also tried to provide a reasonable solution to the problem of repayment. - No, not feasible, without success. What have the two other parties done? – The Freedom Party, then in opposition, has tabled a motion for a resolution – I am now saving myself all the details, I suppose you know your motions for resolutions; I quote: "The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is invited to replace completely the loss of revenue resulting from the loss of drinking tax’. What did the Austrian People's Party do? – It has also submitted a request: "If the proceeds of a levy under § 14 and § 15 are reduced by a judgment of the European Court of Justice, the Federal Government shall keep the local authorities concerned unharmed." So about the same thing. The communities should not have any damage. This is also our position, but this time, as this situation has occurred, all this is no longer valid. How did our party president say recently? Promise and break! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have therefore considered how, in this situation, we can achieve an acceptable regime for all parties represented in Parliament. We wanted to build a bridge, and I therefore agreed with my friends in the Financial Committee to submit the ÖVP's request. We have, literally, taken Dr. Khol's request, but we have only written on it above: Dr. Heindl and comrades, and were of the opinion that the Austrian People's Party would benefit from this opportunity and accept a regulation that was still valid in its sense last year. It is no longer valid today. If someone could explain to me what changed from last year to this day, I would be very grateful, for I have not understood this to this day. This is your policy: Last year you say this, this is how you do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Let me call you: The judgment of the Court of Justice has come in between!]] Mr Khol, you have another chance today, because I am again submitting the amendment today, but it has to be formulated differently for business reasons. The BAO amendment, which Mr Böhacker considered to be negotiable in the Financial Committee, cannot be tabled, which is not possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But I repeat it: The first part is identical to the request made last year by Klubobmann Khol. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is once again our offer: an arrangement as expected by the communities, and they also have a right to do so. I'm curious how you'll react. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're going to condone me. Our criticism is not hard. She's honest, but not hard. I can prove to you that others who are concerned argue more harshly on the basis of some quotations. Helmut Mödlhammer, President of the Federal Government, accuses the government in a very sharp form of wordbreak. Contrary to the original intention, the increase in VAT on consumable drinks will not already be achieved by 1. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== This again reduces revenue. We will also make a request in this regard to reorganise this so that the communities and cities do not pay so much this year. The President of the Chamber of Commerce of Vienna, in turn, I quote: "And so once again a sham solution was enchanted out of the hat, but without involving those who are supposed to hold for it as experimental rabbits, namely the entrepreneurs in tourism and gastronomy. The planned "slicing tax" – so nice; that's not our word creation – "is, in my view, a Husch-Puff solution that unilaterally burdens an industry without the consequences being reasonably thought of." I could bring you some more quotations in this way now. It seems particularly interesting to me to make a statement, also from the corner of the companies. That's what it says literally: We defend ourselves with all clarity against being punished now with a nationally absurd Husch-Fusch tax package for past failures. It is incomprehensible to us that the affected... – Yes, because you did not come with us last year. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Failments from the past"!? How was that? Look here!]] We talked about it. Last year you could have decided on our solution, then we wouldn't have the whole theatre today. You didn't do this because you just wanted to do it and hoped for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Because Mr Böhacker believes that this regulation costs consumers nothing, a remarkable sentence – it is not ours again –: Food and drink must not be a luxury! These are the statements made by the Chamber of Commerce representatives, and I believe that this is really the case. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that it is also different when dealing with matters has shown itself in connection with the regulation of advertising charges. The reduction in advertising from 10 to 5 percent is certainly not easy for the communities to digest, it is at least half. However, we have rehabilitated this regulation from the past by means of a common constitutional request. In this context, I have a request, Mr State Secretary: It is not understandable for many that, for example, brochures issued by a company are advertising-free and the same brochures, when they are accompanied by a newspaper, are subject to advertising charges. We have heard from the Committee that there are different opinions on this. I believe that this can be regulated in the interests of those concerned, and I would like to appeal to the Minister and to you, Mr State Secretary, to make a clarification here, just as I have said before, in connection with the different VAT rates for chickens in the Sackerl and Chipferln without Sackerl, in the consumption at the sausage level. Mr. Col., you're shaking your head. – No, that’s new, unfortunately, you won’t believe it, but that’s a new invention, but not from us, but just now, please, practised by you. [[Abg. Böhacker: That has always been the case!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end, let me tell you one thing: We have shown there a willingness to cooperate where we believe we can go, namely in the Constitutional Regulation, but you will understand that in a compromise that costs – once again – the communities money that burdens consumers... – The chief, please! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Otherwise the head will come!]] I did not speak to Häupl on this question at all. You see, we have a cooperation, and we absolutely understand here. Just once again: One cannot agree to a compromise which, on the one hand, burdens the communities and cities that are burdening the tourism sector and on the other hand costs consumers money. Therefore, you understand that we will reject these measures as a solution for drinking tax! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1568	The amendment which Mr Dr. Heindl has just read is sufficiently supported and is being negotiated. Mr Dr. Stummvoll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1592	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heindl has tabled an amendment which provides that the Federal Government may offer full replacement to the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, what we decide today means that the communities alone must realize a savings potential of 1.5 billion schilling when replacing the drinking tax. The demand, the covenant may replace everything, raises the question for me: Who is the Federation? – The federal government is ultimately the taxpayer. Mr Heindl! Your request would mean that the taxpayer will be more burdened by 1.5 billion schilling compared to that negotiation result, to that package we decide today. [[Abg. Edlinger: No, no, that's wrong!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Heindl! We are the taxpayer's lawyer, and we do not want to accept an additional burden of 1.5 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Second point. Mr Heindl, you have rightly referred to past failures. Yes, who has triggered the failure? [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: For 14 years you were in the government!]] At the time, who was the Minister of Finance, who confirmed the municipalities in writing, that the tax on beverages was EU-compliant? Who was that? [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You were 14 years in the government!]] Was that a finance minister of this government, or was that a socialist finance minister, namely Ferdinand Lacina? – To this these failures are attributed. He has confirmed to the communities something that has not kept, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Heindl! I am very surprised that you have so often quoted the parish government, which is considered to be the so-called black community. You have never quoted the so-called Red Town Alliance, which has accepted this compromise in writing today's vote. [[Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have only said half the truth, Mr Heindl! Negotiations were negotiated with both, with the municipal government and the municipal government, and the city government has stated in writing that it will accept the outcome of the negotiations. Let us stick to the truth, Mr Heindl. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we are deciding today as a package of laws has not been brought to Parliament by the government from Jux and Tollery. The reasons were two highest court decisions: on the one hand, the decision of the ECJ and, on the other, a decision of the Constitutional Court on the issue of a notice. The joy – I like to admit – of the economy over the ECJ decision that an antique, obsolete tax, which has been fought for years by parts of the economy, was only a very short one. All those involved in the negotiations have had to experience in these last weeks that, unfortunately, the principle that financial science has known for 200 years is still correct, namely the principle: Old tax – good tax, new tax – bad tax. Ladies and gentlemen! We have experienced this painfully in recent weeks, because the economy – and I would like to hold on to this – has come up with a wealth of amendments, a wealth of alternatives have been shown. Yesterday Mr Grasser, the Minister of Finance, rightfully sighed from his point of view, the economy is always bringing new proposals. He meant this, I think, rather critical. I saw it positively. The economy has made a real effort to make creative and flexible new proposals over and over again. But I would like to admit that there were no proposals that the democratic majority would have found. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are today assessing this package of laws from the overall perspective, we will once again be very sober about what the basic elements of this package of laws are. Once again, it is a fundamental element that an antique, obsolete tax, which would continue to exist after the ECJ brand of non-alcoholic beverages, will be abolished entirely. If we did not act, the consequence would be that the drinking tax on alcohols has been abolished, but for non-alcoholic beverages would continue to exist. That would be absurd. That is why the decision to abolish the tax on beverages is correct, including non-alcoholic beverages. This is an important signal for young people as well as for health policy. A proper decision, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The second element, beverage tax old plus advertising and announcement charge, was a total volume of 7.5 billion schilling. What we decide today has a volume of 5 billion schilling. What does that mean? – Under the rule, the taxpayer is less burdened by 2.5 billion schilling. Less burden on taxpayers – a right decision, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. The bill is wrong!]] That's what we say, especially because we're the taxpayer's lawyer. We're the lawyer of the little man. It will pay less than 2.5 billion schilling in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third element of this package is that we have called this wild growth of municipal charges, the announcement and advertising levy, with legal uncertainty, with double taxation, with a nonsensical tax competition from municipalities, in a uniform advertising charge, and also half the amount. The next step in the future will certainly have to be to abolish it completely because the advertising tax is an antique tax. But at the moment we're at least doing the halving. What does that mean? This means more legal certainty, that is, no absurd tax competition from the municipalities, and that means avoiding double taxation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And not for direct e-mails like the red ones wanted!]] – Very well, Mr. Collegue, not for direct e-mails. And that does not mean extending the basis of assessment, which would have meant more tax benefits. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, this is basically a right decision. However, the package also contains a fourth point, and this fourth point is very painful for the economy, not a question at all. This fourth point provides for VAT increases, VAT increases, of which I say: They are correct in the approach, because it is a consumption tax – I think it is more sensible than a cost tax – but I say quite frankly, they are overrun to the extent. I think that the increase in the rate of VAT on soft drinks, coffee and the like, as well as the 14 per cent VAT on food should be covered. I also understand that some representatives of the economy today will find themselves in major conflicts of conscience, whether they can agree or not. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all used to deciding on large packages, too. I can honestly remember not a great package of the past, in which there would not have been extremely severe criticism at all. I was here at the speaker's desk when I defended and welcomed the 2000 tax reform, but I very much criticized the individual component of speculation income tax. In total packages you can never decide according to the raisin principle. Of course, it would be very nice to say that I accept what I like, and what I don't like, I take it out. We must make an overall assessment of the overall package here, ladies and gentlemen. And I say one thing: With these four elements shown, an antique tax is completely removed. The tax volume is reduced by 2.5 billion schilling, i.e. by a third. A legal uncertainty will be eliminated in the area of notification and advertising and the tax burden will be halved. This contrasts with the painful point of the increase in VAT. Ladies and gentlemen! From the point of view, I say – I have not made this decision easy – and we all have to say that this package is right in the trend. In addition, one more thing – I say quite openly – is: We have a new federal government, a new federal government that has created a spirit of departure, a spirit of departure that we feel clearly in our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the street again and again – yesterday it happened to me again – people say: Well you do it, stay with it, stay hard! We must go through this, we need these reforms! It would be absurd, ladies and gentlemen, if we did not give this government confidence in the drinking tax replacement. This would also be absurd in all the pain with regard to those points where I understand the host and cafetiers who ask: How can you accept such a thing? [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you want to convince your own people?]] I say it again: I could never accept it in isolation, that would not be acceptable. But from the overall responsibility, for the country and in confidence in this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, I will personally and my group will agree to this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1754	I can say that, on the basis of a planned trip abroad, Mr Vergestnich has been apologised for today. Since this journey has not been made, he is present. The message as prevented and apologised is therefore irresistible. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. He's got the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Maderthaner went abroad for this!]] – I notice that Maderthaner went abroad instead of a pomp.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1790	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to my colleagues in a bold manner, you would have to think that the fall of the government on the occasion of the solution to the drinking tax. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Just not!]] They're pretty worried. But perhaps these concerns are justified, though not on this occasion. "Rerule Austria", that's the parole with which you took place. That's right. But in front of loud slogans to the epaulettery, against loud accusations and conspiracy theories of yours, you almost don't add – you don't do it yourself either; today do However, it is – to look at what the domestic policy work of this government is really doing. What does she actually give? – Let us feel the alleged economic party ÖVP once on the tooth what it has to show in this government with the new government partner in this form of legislative change for this tax system! Especially much is left. Give Now You're a lawyer of the little man and the taxpayer, Mr. Stummvoll. But that alone will not be able to do it. What are we going to have to pay attention to when assessing this government proposal? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: You want to raise the fuel price to 25 S! That's your policy!]] We need to look at the situation of the communities, we need to consider the situation of the economic operators concerned and consumers. They cannot divide people into taxpayers, but they can completely abandon their consumers. Both of them are known to affect the wallet. Now, if the communities get less money than originally planned, the question is what has moved you to change your mind. I would like to remind you that in the previous year, Mr Klubobmann Khol made a request that the municipalities should be compensated entirely for schilling and euro in the event of an extrajudicial decision of this kind being taken by the ECJ. That was the intention of the application. All right. By the way, I should like to point out at this point that you, Mr Stummvoll, have slept the whole thing despite the announcement – once again! The fact that the European Court of Justice would bring the drinking tax system down is really nothing new. You might as well have slept with the old government partner. It may be that the new partner will otherwise give you more pleasure, but you would have done so too. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Despite announcement open! – First qualification. This is an opportunity to point out that a second item on the agenda is still under negotiation. The Greens made a proposal last year, in order to avoid this threatening disaster, that revenue from the beverage tax should be committed. That was Dr. Van der Bellen's request, which you've included in a proven manner. But he's on trial. I'm coming to the second group, the communities. The communities, in order to hold it again, are obviously worse. Mr President, you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have boldly refused to mention this in your defence speech. In the Committee you still meant that the difference from the situation of the Khol application from 1999 to now was the Edlinger budget hole, the SPÖ's budget lie. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Also! Also! I can repeat it!]] You didn't offer that to us today. That would have been more interesting. I'm going to take it for granted because I have the opportunity to say once again that you can't get through with the reproach that you never knew anything about the budget figures, even with the new drinking tax regime. You commit the... Where is he? - Now he goes. [[Abg. Dr. Stummfully leaves the meeting room.]] The economic party ÖVP wants to know nothing about the budget situation and the budget hole all the time and calls it "Edlinger-Loch" and "Edlinger-Lüge". [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Point exact!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Point exact!]] Do you know what that is? – This is the lie on the meta-level. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's an order call!]] You've always known. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, of course! The claim not to have known anything about the Edlinger budget hole and to tell him the lie is the lie on your side. [[Abg. Edlinger: A witness of poverty would be that!]] That's...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1916	Mr Kogler! Skill Don't you articulate yourself differently? We don't want to blame each other for "lying". Please take this into account!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e1931	In my opinion, however, some of the untruths have been said here. Just how far that is known or not is the assessment of others. Because of me. But I actually have that impression. I come to the next point: businesses. You have not even succeeded – I understand Mr Stumpfully's supplication to the representatives of the economy, since I would like to agree in some way – to satisfy your own clients. In fact, these have a different degree of excitement depending on the problem. In fact, since you are much too early to take a VAT-like scheme as a replacement, the situation now arises that the various sectors in the gastronomy will be completely different. You could have saved yourself with a more imaginative proposal. But you didn't do that. It's all the blame! Not enough again! To the consumers. Consumers are consistently worse off with the existing proposal. Why? – The increase in the areas that are now being undertaken will continue to be extended to consumers. As the experience shows, the loss of the drinking tax where it has already happened will not lead to a price reduction. The prices in the food cards in the inn do reflect this. That is, thirdly, consumers are more burdened under the rule. And these are exactly the same people, the colleague stupidly accused of themselves, just as taxpayers. These are also made worse under the rule, so that the summation as far as the drinking tax is concerned is quite simple: The municipalities get less money, the businesses are partly worse off, are rightly raised, and consumers have to pay more. Congratulations! Great! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It's going to be They do not wonder, therefore, that we will not agree to this point in the present government paper. I come to two other areas to justify the voting behaviour of the Green Group. You have also made changes to advertising due to the highest court decisions. There, too, the communities are being put in a worse position. This is the one thing, and the second is that you make totally peculiar differentiations in the subject matter, which do not have any material basis. Exactly those advertising brochures that are distributed somewhere and somehow through the area that you find on every doorstep in plastic sacks or also on the windshield of cars are tax-free, while the same prospectus, a newspaper, is taxed. You have to explain that to me once! Minister for Finance Grasser has stated in the Committee that he has never thought of extending the subject matter to those acts which I have referred to. That's actually unbelievable. Mr Leitl from the Chamber of Commerce is famous to have proclaimed this pass. Something's wrong. The Minister of Finance has remained guilty of informing the Committee. Perhaps you can make up for this now, Mr State Secretary. In our opinion, this is a completely unjustified differentiation. This passus of the template also deserves a juicy rejection because this requirement is controlled in such a way that exactly what would be the most meaningful thing to tax is not recorded. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The last point I would like to address is: In this presentation, there are completely disregarded provisions of Article II of the VAT Act. In addition, the Minister of Finance has remained guilty of any statement in the Committee. I can remind you that this is the provision that deliveries to NATO fighters are tax-free. That's what you could say: Okay, no competitive disadvantage for Austrian entrepreneurs, if other EU countries do so in accordance with a VAT directive. But with that, the fun actually stops again. Firstly, it must be noted that the EU has granted NATO a huge tax privilege, and secondly, that the Minister of Finance has not been able to express his views on the matter, only to save himself in the defence that the EU had already agreed several times to implement this directive. I say to you: It is very strange that, in this area, obedience is exercised by the Republic of Austria, while other EU tax directives are known to be treated quite differently, and we are already directly covered by threats of complaint, so that something goes on at all. I just remember the anonymity of the savings books. It is therefore totally inconceivable why such differentiation is being made, and it is also unclear why the Republic of Austria should submit to this pressure. I note that with this provision, for the first time, the concept of "joint defense effort" in connection with NATO is to be introduced into an Austrian law firm, and that should be considered carefully. That's not a little bit like we mean greens. That is why we have a clear rejection on this point. It remains to be noted that one can agree to the government template in the area which provides for a change in the income tax for artists. This "smoothing" over three years seems useful to us. That doesn't need any more comments. That's perfectly clear and correct. Finally, one could sum up what the government has to state with this proposal is: First, despite the announcement, you have slept the whole thing, then you have boldly announced that you will enter the negotiating room in a shirty manner, which will come for a straight clear solution. You've gone all the way down and you've gotten heated up in some hateful little things. You can see this when you look at this draft. You've been edified in detail, you've been talking about the detail. There can be no mention of a big litter. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The inventiveness in this draft is very likely to be your responsibility. This fears the big issues of tax legislation in the future. I can remind you that you had several possibilities to solve this problem differently. The value-added tax-like scheme could have continued to be followed by the advantage that it did not show any such differences in the products. A second possibility would have been to finally look at a change in basic taxation. This would have been immediate revenue for the municipalities – first of all. Secondly, of course, this would have a completely different distribution effect – one must also trust it – because it will tax assets and property. This is something quite different than raising excise duties. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Perhaps, even if there is now a new government, there is still one or another minister who is also affected by the Farnleitner syndrome. This is the only minister who remembers what happened in the old government. Perhaps there are still those who remember what the Tax Reform Commission has developed on behalf of the last Federal Government. There were clear proposals to change basic taxation. I would strongly urge you to follow up on these proposals. Last point, keyword "Infatuation": At some point this tax system will have to be changed in the direction that environmental pollution will not continue to be tax-free and that the things you do not want exactly will be taxed higher. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is a simple principle. I can give you, Mr State Secretary, the Greens' proposal for eco-social tax reform to stimulate imagination. Otherwise, I would think that the fantasy deficit is more frightening. Maybe there's another chance. Before I give you this copy, I would like to come to the overall note. It's just in the sum: Not enough! Actually, you'd have to say: Sit down! Sit down! But we hope that we will soon prevent new majority voting in this House. That would be good for the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2052	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2074	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! You see me here today with a smiling and crying eye. [[Abg. Oils: Oh!]] With a crying eye therefore because yesterday, SV Waustenrot Salzburg lost the Cup final against the GAK. [[Demonstrative applause by Mrs Zweytick and Mr Fink.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only when shooting Elfmeter!]] I congratulate all my Styrian friends on winning the GAK, but I would like to say one thing: He was extremely happy. And with a smiling eye therefore, because the seemingly "never ending story", the abolition of the drinking tax, is being brought to a good end today with this package. Mr. Dr. Heindl! Their quotations were certainly presented in principle all truthfully. Only please: They quote only half of the time. My colleague, Mr President, has already said this: There is a written consent of the Municipal Government that it agrees to this replacement solution. President Mödlhammer has also said that he agrees with this replacement package, although with many pains. With regard to the year 2000, with regard to President Mödlhammer, I should like to add the following: 1.35 billion schillings get the communities out of this replacement solution. They are also left with around 1.4 billion schilling from the beverage tax for non-alcoholic beverages. In addition, the Minister of Finance has made 350 million Schilling out of the urban water management funds liquid. In addition, in 2000 the municipalities received more from the earnings of 1 billion Schilling, making a total of 4.8 billion Schilling of 5.6 billion Schilling available to the municipalities. Please don't forget one, too...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2128	One second! . I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that a speaker in your group is speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2146	Thank you, Mr President. – I may add that the income of the municipalities increased from around 60.8 billion schilling in 1995 to nearly 75 billion schilling in 1999. This should also be taken into account by the local authorities. I also do not want to hide the fact that it was finally the European Court of Justice that, after the years of failure of the socialist governments, has passed the law of action and virtually forced this solution to the drinking tax problem in Austria. However, I am not at all aware that this replacement package is a trapebagt – in the truest sense of the word – it was to bring the most diverse interests, the most diverse goals to a common denominator, and that, at a time, ladies and gentlemen, had the highest priority in fiscal consolidation, in which it was necessary to work out the disastrous budget heritage of the social democrats. I refer to the following: 1.7 trillion Schilling government debt, 109 billion schilling deficit – 100 billion schilling interest alone! –, 1 million Austrians below and below the poverty line. This heritage of the Social Democrats has to open up this new government and at the same time it has to solve the drinking tax problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It was therefore the common objective of this new federal government to find a solution which had to meet at least five essential criteria. Objective 1: It was sustainable to secure the dynamic financial power of the communities, but at the same time to send a signal to the communities: Saving, saving and saving – in the order of about 1.2 billion schilling, but not saving with the investments, but saving intelligently through the corresponding red tape reduction and reducing double-tracking. Objective 2 was to achieve the competitiveness of the Austrian economy by a clear relief in the order of around 1.4 billion schilling. I know it would have been better for the economy to remove the total of 5.7 billion schillings, but there is also the dictatorship of empty cash registers. Objective 3 was a signal to young people, to health and to road safety, by the voluntary abolition of the drinking tax on non-alcoholic beverages. Objective 4 was a massive red tape reduction, both in the administration and in the economy, through the complete abolition of a tax, which was very, very administratively intensive in principle and was burdened with around 1.5 billion schilling per year alone on collection and control costs. And target number 5 was not to lose sight of the premise of budget consolidation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With regard to these five objectives, it was possible and necessary to conduct the corresponding negotiations, and it was truly necessary for a solidarity and a high willingness to accept matters by the negotiators to reach a solution in this regard. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those concerned – regardless of whether the municipality, the town council or the economy – who have shown a high degree of social responsibility and who have only made this solution possible in material, constructive discussions and negotiations. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] I also do not want to thank the staff in the Ministry of Finance. They were practically ready day and night – even on weekends – to participate in the solution process and to contribute their expertise. Dozens of models were expected, because the economy, the municipal government, the town government, repeatedly brought in new variants of all those concerned, which could be calculated accordingly. How difficult it was and is to find a fair, forward-looking solution shows a brief look at the failures of socialist governments, which are marked by a failure to succeed. As early as 1990 we liberals submitted the first request for the abolition of the tax on beverages while replacing the costs for the municipalities. In 1994, Minister of Finance Lacina declared to the municipalities that the drinking tax was EU-compliant. It was not until 1995 that Dr. Staribacher, the then Socialist Minister of Finance, recognized the problem and on 45. City day in Linz said: Drink tax – get away with it! Replace with the newly created energy tax. – An excellent solution, accepted by the municipal government and the local government. Rejected! The Social Democrats have not implemented their own proposal. In 1996, there was a new request from the liberals for the abolition of the drinking tax, and, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, not later than since the Advocate General of the ECJ made his final request, it should have been clear to everyone that this drink tax will not last. The contribution of the Social Democrats to this solution was extremely poor to zero. That is why I am all the more surprised that Mr Heindl has today submitted a request for the abolition of the drinking tax on the whole and the replacement of federal funds. It refers to a request from the ÖVP. Good. And Mr. Kaipel puts another point on it and leaves it in a press release of 16. May announce: "In order for the communities to be able to carry out their tasks optimally in the future, and also to provide a modern infrastructure in the low-financial communities, the SPÖ requires a 100% VAT replacement in the interests of all Austrians (...)." - So far, so good. This is the SPÖ's proposal. xxxvergl. Pau In 1999, when the ÖVP submitted its application, the then Minister of Finance naturally responded. That's his right to manage the federal budget. What did Minister of Finance Edlinger say about this ÖVP application, which Dr Heindl wrote down and brought back today? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Listen carefully! Now I'm excited!]] Very interesting! Edlinger leaves Andreas Höferl – "Kurier", issue 9. July 1999 – announced: By Andreas Höferl, spokesperson of Minister of Finance Rudolf Edlinger, a clear "immovable". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Impossible!]] - Impossible! If so, this request cannot be made. Impossible! The intrusion of the federal government is unfinancial – hear, hear! –, July 1999. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who said that?]] - Edellinger. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But he still speaks today!]] The inflow of the federal government is unfinancial and would increase the budget deficit by 0.2 percentage points. - Aha! Impossible. Höferl, on behalf of the Minister for Finance [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: short-term memory!]] In this case, the federal government would not be the federal government, but the taxpayer at whose expense it was. – Bravo, Minister of Finance! Right! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Aha! Bravo!]] With this request, you want to remove 5.7 billion schilling from the taxpayer! This is your procedure, your unsocial course against the little people! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am anxious how the former Minister of Finance will defend his own SPÖ request here today, although he said at the time that it is impossible to finance it, it is not the federal government, it is the taxpayer. Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! Come on. You're out and you're saying, Yes, I am the Minister of Finance without dignity, therefore, no longer a burden, wants 5.7 billion schilling by the citizen and taxpayer! That is the aim of social democracy. – The citizen will punish you with a reduction of votes in the next elections. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: This Austrian Federal Government is taking a newer, more constructive and forward-looking path in the sense of Austrian taxpayers. We are saying, indeed, that in order to preserve the financial strength of the communities and cities, we are saying that we are strengthening competitiveness through a clear reduction in the economy, we say at a price reduction for consumers, we are saying a signal to young people, health and transport safety by abolishing the drinking tax on non-alcoholic beverages, and we are saying that we are talking about saving red tape costs through the complete loss of a tax. With this package, ladies and gentlemen, this government is showing the ability to resolve which you have long lost from social democracy. Thank you, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2292	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2313	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make a brief comment, with which Mr Böhacker has begun, although, of course, I consider the final Cup final between Salzburg and the GAK more neutral than he does. But I'm not going to congratulate the GAK. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rapid wasn't there!]] Since Fischl is no longer there, they even win the cup. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is a wonderful event, and I congratulate the GAK on these two things. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rapid wasn't there!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the template. I would like to begin by summarizing the reasons why the Social Democratic Party will not agree to this solution for drinking tax. It is not satisfactory in every way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. First: Food, coffee and tea are becoming more expensive. Secondly, Drinks will not be cheaper. It is therefore wrong to argue that the reduction of the tax on beverages benefits the consumer. You know that. None of the gastronomy will pass on this tax reduction – that was the case in 1990 – and therefore this is not a measure in the interest of young people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiermaier.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He already – Kiermaier! That's what we're looking at.]] It is for young people, if they pay for the drink 50 s, it is pretty no matter if the businessman's span is higher or if 10 percent of the drink tax is on it. It comes to the same thing. So: Food, coffee and tea – which is quite safe – are getting more expensive! Drinks will not be cheaper. [[Abg. Dr. Stumpful: Have a look at the kiermaier!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: With me too!]] – Some white sheep are able to pass it on. However, Mr Kröll – he is the representative of the interests of the gastronomy – said on that day when the Advocate General in Brussels said in his opinion that the drinking tax could possibly be brought to the attention of the ECJ: But we can't pass that on, because the gastronomy needs that! – That’s nothing negative in itself, but then don’t argue otherwise! Swirl You do not think that the drinks will be cheaper – under your government, there will be nothing cheaper in Austria, nor the drinks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has not been acquitted by anyone that the communities get less. However, Mr. Dr. stupidly makes it very easy by saying: 1.1 billion schillings will save the communities! - Yes, if that's all that comes from that government. Dr. Stumbling! You had to make the spagate between your economic representatives and the mayors. It would be interesting what the mayors of the small communities really think. The small municipalities are, in fact, more proportionately affected by the drinking tax than the large ones. [[Abg. Auer: Yes, yes! Right!]] That is why the city government has also agreed to contribute to this; perhaps also in the hope that you will re-ject the crazy idea of permanently damaging the cities with almost 6 billion schilling. This is a political position that you have taken in your government programme. So: The communities get less. – I have been talking to many mayors of municipalities, where the share of drinking tax is much higher than in Vienna. You think there will be significant investment reductions and other measures in the communities – Mr Mayor, thank you for giving me the right to do so – because you are saving in the wrong place on this issue. [[Abg. That's it!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next point: Consumers pay that, that's quite clear. Whether you say "consumer", "citizen" or "taxer", Mr Böhacker, is probably no matter the consumer, the citizen and the taxpayer because it always meets the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Whether the citizen pays it in the inn or whether he pays it in fact via tax resources via the federal financial compensation will be relatively no matter to the citizen. There are only negative developments in this context: less money for the communities that pay consumers, the drinks will not be cheaper, and the food will be more expensive. I don't want to hide the following news – it's not a social-democratic argument –: "Eating in the inn must not be luxury! This tax is enormous!"Die Gastronomy, Wirtschaftskammer Österreich". – Mr Stumvoll, this must have been "handled" by the Secretary-General. Anyway, I don't have anything to add to it. "This tax is enormous!", it expensives and brings the communities into a very difficult situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Your trapezakt, Dr. stupid, was still simple: They are making a statement for the mayors of the small communities and the powerful economic chamberers – there Tacheles is spoken, and then there is the consent. The trapezakt of the FPÖ is, however, much more immense: The FPÖ actually betrays all its demands, ideas and concepts of the past! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You haven't made a single promise until now!]] I have to tell you clearly: There are the "fair taxes". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Right!]] - Do you know who signed that? – Mr Böhacker, Mr Trattner and Mr Schreiner, who has now fallen into disfavor; I do not want to argue now why he is no longer here. At least these three gentlemen signed this. And this concept states: The excise duty on sparkling wine and the excise duty must be abolished! - Without any replacement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did we stop! Was abolished!]] Only later did you say: of course with replacement. You might ask, of course: Who's the Böhacker, who's the Trattner? – Schreiners don't exist anymore, and maybe they follow him, I don't know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there's something else, something hot: "Der Haider-Prinzhorn-Plan". I assume you know these two gentlemen, Mr Haider and Mr Prinzhorn. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That you read all this so carefully!]] And these two gentlemen say: Of course, the drinking tax belongs away, and – now the most dangerous threat comes, Mr Mayor! – the local tax is abolished without replacement! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: She's gone!]] 24 billion schilling plus 6 billion of the beverage tax are 30 billion, with regard to which you have promised to the citizens, tax reliefs. What's your concept for me? What will Mr Haider and Mr Prinzhorn say about this? – All that is still in it is Legion; it is a document that has been downgraded to the Pamphlet by you and your policy. But that's your business. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The last thing I would like to say: This federal government is acting unbelievably doublingly. The Federal Chancellor can be celebrated by Mr. Mödlhammer – that is the President of the Federal Government – but he says: This is a painful compromise! [[Abg. Böhacker: Every compromise is painful, otherwise there are only winners and losers!]] The Federal Chancellor can be pictured in the paper with the thumb in the height – he must be careful that he does not infiltrate himself. And it says: The financial strength of the Austrian communities must be preserved! Then we negotiate a compromise and propose a solution for the year 2000. And suddenly, one finds in a government template that in 2000 alone, the tax failure will amount to just under 4 billion, because you simply didn't keep your promise to the municipal government that honours you here – it's your organization, Mr. Mayor. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's wrong, simple and grippingly wrong what you're saying!]] That's what I call disgraceful! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Mödlhammer has used much more elaborate expressions for this and has also recorded this in a letter to you, Mr. State Secretary. Mr Mödlhammer wrote a letter to Mr Mödlhammer – Mr Mödlhammer – Mr Mödlhammer, the Minister of Finance, obviously did not trust – practically from buddy to buddy – within the party, it is easier to talk to each other. He also speaks to him with "Dear friend!" and says that he protests against the change that simply does not correspond to the agreement, and then says that it must be amended in accordance with the original promise. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Better than "Dear comrade!"!]] He goes on to say: These changes are therefore necessary, as the Ministry of Finance, contrary to the political agreements – apparently with the Municipal Government – only calculates 1.5 billion schilling as a replacement for the year 2000, so that there is a further loss of tax. I would just like to point out that the municipalities will lose 1.7 billion in addition to such a scheme in 2000. A higher sum – a higher than originally said – could not be accepted by the communities in any way. Only recently, in Brussels – but we will still have the opportunity to discuss it – was the stability programme, not the old one that a certain Mr Edlinger has presented, but the new one of Mr Grasser, heavily criticised. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have been criticized, my colleague.]] In this programme, you assume that countries and communities will bring a surplus balance of 0.5 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You got a wrong information!]] But only this measure, which you are setting here, demolds the municipal budgets to an extent of 0.15 percent of the gross domestic product. It will not be possible for the communities to comply with the Stability Pact! [[Abg. Böhacker: What about your request?]] We have an internal-Austrian Stability Pact that allows the communities to exceed the deficit ratios when a Supreme Court takes decisions and the Government does not act. - You're not acting! Another comment on the request: To pay this from the FAG is the second best way. The best way would have been for those who did not agree to the ÖVP in June, because it capitulated before its economic representatives: a commitment of purpose that would have offered a real opportunity to save the drinking tax for the communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: It would never have held!]] – You have prevented this, and you will also have to explain it to the citizens of the communities. [[Abg. Böhacker: That doesn't hold!]] The second best option would be to pay this out of the FAG. We have dealt with this whole thing completely blue-eyeed. We thought: The FPÖ has said: Removal of the drinking tax and compensation from the budget! Mr Khol said in June: out of the budget! – If you cannot talk to each other to agree on it, we support the second best solution – I say: the second best solution. [[Abg. Böhacker: What did you say? - "Impossible"!]] The Social Democrats had made themselves available as a catalyst for the coalition on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2707	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. The clock is set to 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2762	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Faith You're telling me: As mayor, I find it very difficult to argue positively in connection with today's government proposal. [[Abg. Edlinger: I think so!]] But I see the matter a little different from most of my previous speakers. [[Abg. Edlinger: That could harm him!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have to note that we are in the larger EU economic area and that the objective is tax harmonisation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] What we decide today and what we have to say today, even if we may not want to do so, will again be valid for a limited period of time. As mayor, I think I must point out the following: If we want to "rerule Austria" – and that is what we have done – then we have to set new accents in the long term. And one of these accents is to vote on the fact that the local authorities remain the tax authority and that in the case of many taxes we are currently distributing, the distribution justice must be re-rolled! [[Abg. Swimmling: To start with a minus!]] I'll tell you: If the former finance minister and former finance director of the city of Vienna now regrets the small communities, that is very much for me. Mr. Federal Minister other than Edlinger! [[Abg. Edlinger:... because the small and the large communities do not make a shoulder closure!]] It is precisely the city of Vienna that is to be called a leader – there is a lot of money going into it disproportionately. [[Abg. Edlinger: The federal states sit like the Maden in the bacon!]] The 5.6 billion schilling is a rather ridiculous sum compared to what is being converted in the financial compensation for the large communities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: There you will not bring FAG together with this philosophy!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The communities are largely the weakest negotiators in the giant. The municipalities also have to note that they will have to tolerate a tax failure in the future. I am convinced that the municipalities will also be able to cope with this tax loss, because I know from my own experience that among all local authorities in the municipalities there is the greatest efficiency of the use of tax resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There the citizen is directly in the control body. In the municipality he still has the overview, he can still decide, he can still talk about the use of funds. That is why I believe that efficiency is really the highest there. Ladies and gentlemen! The argument that it is an antique tax and the like, I don't like to win much. The drinking tax, for example, became – with this I bring a historical look back – under Karl IV. Karl IV. Just over 600 years ago, the beverage tax was introduced to finance its head office in Prague. That is to say, this tax has proved successful, but we have had to take note, Minister of Finance other than Edlinger, that this tax, unfortunately, no longer has room for tax harmonisation in the European area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to point out quite clearly: If the future financial compensatory negotiations fail to give the communities more fiscal justice, then I think we have shuddered at the foundations of our public life! I therefore ask: If I take this into account today, then there must be something in the financial balance in favour of the smaller communities! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Trattner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is, of course, an argument at any time for a particular tax situation. Only: Now the argument for the graded population key has become more than questionable. As mayor of a small community, it is very clear to me that this graded population key is not to be eliminated from today to tomorrow, but that we are very likely to pay attention to the tax revenue of the bigger. Not radicalization will be the topic, but a horizon for a long time. I demand that, and I ask all parties to strengthen in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen! The 5.6 billion or 1.4 billion in question today are not the major problem. The major problem will be how we will shape the revenue for the communities in future in such a way that they can carry out these revenues also those tasks which the federal government, the countries, but also the citizens of the communities require. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Böhacker.]] At present, the churches of God are unfortunately the weakest in this circle. I therefore ask - even if I agree with this today - to take this very seriously and to strengthen the communities, especially small communities, as Mr Finanzminister said, in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2912	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e2934	Ladies and gentlemen! I start my speech with a coffee bag in my hand, in which there is nothing left that is empty – just after that I would like to come to speak a little bit. [[the speaker shows this]] A very, very important part of Austrian everyday culture is the coffee house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Many states have tried to imitate us. Many say: The Austrian coffee house culture is something special! For tourists who come to Austria, the coffee house visit is almost mandatory. [[Abg. Grossruck: That's what you're saying to Mr. Pilz!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now, however, the coffee houses, which provide very many so-called pouring drinks, are among the main victims and main sufferers of this change in the drinking tax. Especially the coffee houses, as the name says, have specialized in a product group that is particularly poor when it comes to changing the drinking tax imposed by the government parties. But I am now coming to speak to the other disadvantaged. [[Abg. Böhacker: Calculate once before to see how much the coffee gets more expensive!]] It is not only a blow against the coffee houses, against the coffee house culture, but it is also particularly affected – that is, gastronomy associations and the hoteliers' association in their letters, which they sent to all the delegates, are also very clearly placed in the focus – the quality gastronomy. The increase in this area can already have a decisive impact on the behaviour of consumers. Whether it costs a family 1 000 s or well over 1 000 s is relevant! If you drop this question like a hot potato and don't pick it up, it doesn't mean we won't worry about it. You, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the FPÖ, are damaging with this change those branches of gastronomy and tourism, which I believe – and with this opinion I am not alone – would be the most developmentable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr President, Mr Stumvoll has previously said that consumers are the winners of this reform. He can only have meant quite certain groups within consumers, because one is also clear – and this is also an essential criticism that I would like to mention here –: High percent low-cost alcohols are more affected than quality products in this sector. Does this mean that Fusel and Dusel, as it were, are the perspectives that you have used against your own mayor? Wouldn't it have been much wiser to structure the alcohol tax in Austria at last in a reasonable way – that is what some states in Europe have been doing – so that one does not hit beer and wine the most, but the minest but that one brings in a classification? This would also be a rather interesting approach for health care reasons. But this one is missing in your concept! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] [[Abg. Son of a bitch: They have to overlay the frustration!]] Like many others, the Austrian hoteliers have also addressed this point. Mr President Mühlbachler, who spoke in front of me, has not really been easy today. All its representatives – mainly representatives, very few women in this sector – publicly criticised this reform of drinking tax in all newspapers. They have thus given the public the impression that you are working for the communities, for the financing of the communities, for a reasonable system. In here all of a sudden everything is completely different: Here in the plenary session of the National Council, where this change is being voted on, they agree very well at once. I am looking at those of the mayors here in the House today who agree to this regulation and whether one or another may have to go to the toilet by chance during the vote in order not to have to bear the responsibility in this way. [[Abg. Auer: The way you do it]] That's what I'm looking at. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If there were not so many calls and calls in the hall, then the loud gnawing of the local representatives' teeth was heard much more clearly, the loud gnawing of teeth that it attacks when – and rightly so – they think of the dramatic financial situation and the general situation of their community. [[Abg. Auer: From me you can hear it!]] But one must be clear, ladies and gentlemen: The cities and municipalities of Austria are one of the most important employers, and in many areas they are a huge economic factor. And the necessary cutbacks in expenditure in this area are – and this is the argument regarding consumers and citizens – what hits the citizen and the citizen the most direct and tangible. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that is also worth mentioning when you, Mr President-in-Office, will have to deal with the criticism of your parish citizens in this area. [[Abg. Großruck: The parish citizens don't care! The mayor is interested! You don't know each other!]] The mayor's party ÖVP rebuffed its critics, vehemently, before they were able to articulate themselves before they could make their changes. It is also – and this is also an effect that will be affecting us here in Parliament – in some cases the contribution of the communities to the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria in jeopardy. And you should be aware of this, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, when you think of the reminders and complaints we have already received from the European Union in connection with the budget. Summary: The history of the drinking tax is long. Already in the country day, I had to deal with several novels, which were tried to hang an epicyque again in this already extremely impenetrable system, because a change has again become necessary. The history of the drinking tax is also marked by the fact that at the moment when everyone already knew that the drinking tax will fall, that ÖVP representatives have been pilgrimd by the countries and have made mayors and citizens clear, it would not be possible for us to get around the ECJ, that will not happen before the judgment is placed on the table. Ladies and gentlemen! What has now come out is a beginner's base in terms of finance and is not an ambitious attempt to enforce tax sovereignty for countries and communities – I think this is an important point – and to re-member tax rights. I think it is necessary to finally start a debate on the change in the tax base. For me, this version of the drinking tax, as you want to decide here today, is a maximum transitional solution. Their mayors have already announced their own wishes to the budget, the They won't be able to fulfill them at all. The gastronomy has said that it will complain again of any solution that comes out. And for this reason, my request to the government parties: Let us start immediately with an ambitious change in the tax system, which is not exhausted in this hybrid, which hurts everyone and does not benefit anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3079	The next speaker is Mr Trattner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3100	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the FPÖ has put forward applications in which it requested that the drinking tax be abolished without replacement or that the countries receive a 100% compensation. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: The churches!]] Thank you, my colleague. – I correct: the communities! Of course, we also do not agree with this replacement solution a hundred percent. But, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Edlinger, whom you have been speaking here as a full-fledged speaker and who has been working as Minister of Finance for a long time, what have we got from you? You said that we did not have a budget hole, we did not have a health insurance deficit, there was no problem with the drinking tax, we would wait for the EU to decide. With regard to the anonymity of the savings books, it has also been said at EU accession that this is not a problem, one can be sure that the savings books remain anonymous. It has all been pushed before us by the SPÖ policy and no decision has been made. [[Abg. Edlinger: With the anonymity of the savings books you didn't want a solution!]] In this situation, Mr Edlinger, you have carried out a tax reform, at a time when you have already received a rupture from the ECOFIN Council, because you have set in motion an unnecessary budget burden, although you have practically failed to fulfil the Stability and Growth Pact at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We pay!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. We don't pay at all! You're too arrogant! The Austrians pay!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger) We are also Austrian!]] You are the one, Mr Edlinger, who has promised to the ECOFIN Council when Austria held the presidency there that you want to achieve a balanced budget by 2002. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] You promised. I quote: Under the Stability and Growth Pact, Minister of Finance Edlinger entered into a legal commitment to a balanced budget in 1997. As President of the ECOFIN Council, he agreed in October 1998 that this objective would be achieved in 2002. – Already in the first stability programme 1998 he has adopted this legal commitment! What does that mean, Minister of Finance? [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] That's not wrong, that's right! You can get out of here and actually correct that. [[Abg. Edlinger: I did that last week!]] But again: What does that mean, Minister of Finance? – It means: There is not that budget hole that you have always mentioned – at first it was 20 billion schilling, then it was 40 billion schilling – but a far bigger one. If you want to fulfil the Stability Pact, i.e. achieve a balanced budget by 2002 – you have promised – then a budget deficit of 62.3 billion shilling would be allowed for the year 2000, but if no consolidation course was taken, a budget deficit of 108.4 billion would actually come out. [[Abg. Edellinger: 1.4 percent!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: No!]] In 2001, a deficit of 59 billion schilling was allowed, and in fact a deficit of 122.6 billion schilling would come out. In 2002, a deficit of 58 billion schilling was allowed, in fact it would be a budget deficit of 126 billion schilling. In 2003, according to your plan, a deficit of 56.6 billion Schilling is allowed, in fact, Mr Edlinger, it would amount to 127.8 billion schilling. They have left this Federal Government a package which, if no consolidation measures were taken, would result in a budget deficit of a total of 484.8 billion schilling for the period 2000 to 2003. In view of this, you still have the confidence to criticise that this federal government, consisting of ÖVP and FPÖ, is taking consolidation steps. It is doing this in order to keep future budget burdens from the population. But They come out here and criticize that the communities will receive less schilling by 1.3 billion from the replacement solution of the beverage tax. I can only say: 1.3 billion schilling compared to 484.8 billion schilling – Mr. Finanzminister, you have made a real joke with your criticism here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Ex-Finanzminister! Mr Alt-Finanzminister! Mr President, I should like to thank You said, always if the... yeah, yeah! [[Abg. Edlinger: Don't say "old..." that's an insult! I'm so fit!]] The pension is all right! Pensions plus Members' cover, then it fits well. Then it fits well anyway! [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm here volunteering!]] You are certainly the most expensive Members here in the House. [[Abg. Edellinger: The cheapest!]] What are you going to have? 160,000 to 180,000 pp. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm the cheapest! The cheapest Member!]] But I think you're good. At least you're working on the money you get. The colleague Lichtenberger has received a reference, but has not worked for it. I repeat: I think that's good for you. Mr Edlinger! You have also said the following: All that is now being done by the new government is to make everything more expensive. – I can tell you: The Freedom and the Austrian People's Party made it possible to make a so-called shake-out check in the order of 30 billion schilling – 12 billion schilling from family taxation and 17 billion schilling from the reduction in income tax or wage tax rates – which you distributed here last year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They have not made any provision for this at all. With the financialability of this shaker check, each Austrian family has an average of 9 000 S to 10 000 S more in the pocket. I ask you: Have we taken money from taxpayers or have we given them money? I think the opposite is the case: We gave them money! Let us take a look at the tax statistics, Mr Edlinger. – Tax statistics look as follows: For the first time in ten years, wage tax revenue has been absolutely lower by 9 billion schilling than in the previous year. And if you say that the tax reform is so business-friendly, I must tell you that last year's corporate tax will increase by 3.6 billion schilling. That's what we've achieved! We have thus carried out a redistribution towards the low-income groups and not those with high incomes. And that's exactly the opposite of what you claimed here. We have made sure that the child money is introduced in 2001, and we have made sure that the electricity price and the rents are reduced. Don't tell the untruth here in the House! The facts look quite different. This government is about to make a policy for the little man, to make sure that the little people pay less taxes, and not to continue the process you have practiced over the past 30 years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Finanzminister! What's this about today? – They came out here and said everything would be more expensive. If I use half the beer as an example,... [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm not responsible for that! There I am very delicate!]] If I'm an example of half Take the beer and say that the 10 percent drink tax is now lost, Mr. Edlinger,... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] 10 percent of the beer's drinking tax is lost, we agree! [[Abg. Edlinger: But it won't be cheaper!]] 10 percent of the drinking tax will be removed from the beer and the beer tax will be increased from 2.40 S to 3.44 S. This means a reduction in the order between 2.50 S and 3 S in the half beer, which is the favourite drink of the Austrians. This is indeed a success of this reform by the removal of the drinking tax! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's wrong!]] This is, of course, subject to the calculation of each host or individual hoteliers. I'll give you all the right. But there are also differences in Vienna. I pay in a guest house for the big beer 32 S, in the other inn I pay for the big beer 38 S to 40 S. There the consumer will probably turn to where he gets the beer best, and then the entrepreneur will calculate differently and proceed so that this tax advantage can be passed on to the customer. Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger! In any case, they have left us a legacy with which the Federal Government, if it wants to achieve the consolidation goals – that would be a balanced budget – is burdened with an amount of 484.8 billion schilling in the coming years. If we want to achieve a Maastricht budget, it is 248.9 billion schilling that this federal government has to bring in. I believe that structural measures will be necessary in order to achieve this. The trust of the Austrian population in this federal government that it will implement these necessary structural measures is very high. Trust in you has not been there anymore, and therefore it is also good that They're no longer Finance Ministers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3400	Mr Edlinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please comply with the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3427	Mr President. Mr Trattner claimed that I had committed myself in Brussels to making a balanced budget by 2002. - That's wrong! I agree with two documents from the European Union, first with the Council Regulation 1466/1997, which lays down this obligation. In this section you can read under point 4: "By maintaining the medium-term objective of an almost balanced budget or a surplus in budgets, Member States can cope with normal economic fluctuations while at the same time keeping the deficit of the public budget within the reference value of three percent." – I agreed! For Austria, the Council's opinion of 18 December 1993 was important. January 1999 – I read it in my correction last week – which is about the stability programme of the Republic of Austria. It notes that the Council recognises that the medium-term deficit target of 1.4 percent in 2002 is expected to be sufficient in view of the slight fluctuations in economic growth in Austria, that even if the economic downturn is made, the three percent will not be exceeded. – I have committed myself to that! I have put your claim right here. Secondly, Mr Trattner claimed that I was Austria's most expensive Member. That's wrong! It's true that I'm Austria's cheapest representative. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good!]] I have, of course, a pension claim because I am 60 years old and have 46 years of contributions. I retired and the honourable Member is therefore put to nothing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That costs something!]] If I stay at home, I deserve the same. The Republic of Austria saves itself a reference to Members through my activity here. I am therefore the most cost-effective Member. They are much, much more expensive and less effective!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3485	Deputies! Did you explain the application? [[Abg. May. Trattner: No!]] Will this make another speaker of the Freedom Party? [[Abg. May. Trattner: Yes!]] - Okay, good. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Trattner wishes a personal response to Mr Edlinger's last words, 'You are less effective'. This is permitted by business regulations. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3533	Mr Edlinger! A Member of Parliament is effective if he is here for a member's content, which is laid down or guaranteed by law – and not if he has a double reference as you have it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3585	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to calm down again! You know that personal responses are only possible if the corrected part of the Members is personally involved. They were all witnesses of how this happened. So that's done. Mr Schlögl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3609	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, I mean: I cannot follow the logic of Mr Trattner, because it has been said by Mr Edlinger very clearly and clearly that he has only one reference, namely the reference as a pensioner, as a former minister and councillor. [[Abg. Neudeck: How high is this reference?]] So that's just a reference. He has no reference as a member of the National Council. That is why his argument is a correct one and your argument, Mr Trattner, is a wrong one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Is this just a minimum pension he gets?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the style in this House should be such that at least one views facts as facts and does not deliberately say untruths. I would ask you to keep that style in the future. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the real issue, on the drinking tax. The drinking tax was a reliable foundation of municipal financing for many municipalities in the past. After all, in recent years the municipalities and cities of Austria have had almost 6 billion schilling of revenue from the beverage tax. This enabled them to carry out the legally prescribed tasks of the municipalities in an excellent way. The present regulation and the decision of the European Court of Justice, which I believe would have been avoidable, have succeeded in weakening this foundation pillar – seeing eye. I am sorry, and I believe that what is being discussed here today and is clearly to be decided is a big mistake! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate would have been avoidable. Today's debate is a debate that has only come about because we have not taken timely precautions. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who?]] Each of the parties present here, no matter what political party he is, has known that the European Court of Justice will abolish the drinking tax in its previous form. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Since when?]] Whether he picks them up completely or only partially, that was uncertain, but that he will do it, each of us was aware in one form or another, and the risk was also known for several months, if not years. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Since when?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Eben! That's why it's done!]] That's why we should have taken timely precautions. It would have been a simple way, ladies and gentlemen, to take precautions, namely simply introducing and saying a commitment to the use of drinking taxes: We are committed to the revenue received by the municipalities from the drinking tax for certain tasks which the municipalities can carry out. There are a number of other charges at community level that are intended, and this works very well. This proposal was made last year by Minister of Finance Edlinger. This proposal was not only a proposal from Edlinger and Social Democracy, but also a proposal from all Austrian communities. But this proposal has been thrown carelessly overboard, it has not been approved by him. This is my criticism of the Austrian People's Party: that last year it did not implement this commitment of purpose together with social democracy. [[Abg. Böhacker: He wouldn't have held!]] She would've held it! I have to make this clear. Even from the European Court of Justice, there have been signs that the commitment to a common compromise and a common solution would have been. That you have not gone away from the ÖVP, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You've behaved a little bit like the bulldozer, who's always rubbed himself against the hair-snowing. Similarly, you have done: You have represented the interests of a particular group – a client of your own party – but not the general interests. I'm sorry! We have therefore simply waited for the decision of the European Court of Justice. We all know the result. Minister of Finance Grasser then suggested nothing better than that the municipalities bring forward new proposals. The municipalities have put forward proposals, but the plans of the municipalities were simply rejected by the Minister of Finance. Good. This must be taken note of. Now we have a replacement solution, with which, as I claim – and you can then disprove my opinion – no one is satisfied or happy and in which there are only losers. Whether a solution with which everyone is dissatisfied is a reasonable solution, I agree. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Only winners can't be there!]] I am also aware that I am so well aware that I know that there cannot always be winners, but if there are only losers, then something must be wrong. [[Abg. Böhacker: Where did the 1.4 billion schilling come from?]] There are, however, only losers in this scheme. Losers are the breweries, the wine farmers, the ice cream producers, the coffee roasters, the tea importers. These industries are the losers. Losers are also the gastronomy companies. You are not happy with this solution either. Each espresso will cost more money in the future. You just need to read through the journals. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Why not? This is an important industry in Austria. I'm very glad that there are breweries. [[Call to the liberals: We too!]] They create jobs and produce good products. Why don't you stand up for the breweries? I don't see any reason for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You just need to look at what the journals write. I quote: "Coffee houses in danger." "Who sleeps there at the coffee?" "The tax plans of Schüssel and Grasser bring cafetiers to Rage." – This is not from me, but from the respective journals. [[Abg. Böhacker: Au weh!]] But consumers too are the losers. Price reductions will not exist, but the opposite will be the case: Prices will rise! Finally – and that is clear, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen – the communities the losers of this scheme. In the future, they will be reduced by at least one-and-a-half billion shillings, and I believe that this will be beyond the limit until the communities can really meet all the requirements of the Stability Pact in the future. In my opinion, the communities will no longer be able to contribute to the Maastricht criteria in the future to what they have contributed so far, and this will also be felt by the Minister for Finance and will again contribute to our being strongly criticized within the European Union. [[Abg. Böhacker: Don't underestimate the staff of the Minister of Finance!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, I find it unscrupulous that on the 4th. April 2000 the Federal Government – Schüssel, Riess-Passer, Grasser, without using titles now – has promised that the communities will receive at least one and a half billion more schilling this year, so as much as they will receive in total next year. This commitment has been broken, and that is why, together with friends from my group, I am tabling an amendment. This amendment has already been distributed in writing, so I am saving myself reading it here, Mr President. The aim of this proposal is for the communities to get what they have on 4 July this year. It has been promised by this government on April 2, 2000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Mayor of the ÖVP, Auer, Mühlbachler, Platter, Kurzbauer! You are all excellent mayors, you have the necessary expertise. I accept and can also partly understand that you have to carry this solution today. This is a difficult decision for you to make. I accept this, but I believe you should at least have the courage to agree to this amendment tabled by social democracy today, because this amendment guarantees that the communities will receive the promised one and a half billion schilling in this year. [[Abg. Zweytick: Where?]] I believe that this is very important and necessary, because this is a commitment that has been given, and promises should be kept, if it is possible somehow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Each of us knows that there is nothing going on in this Republic without the investment of the communities. Nearly two thirds of all the investments made in this Republic are made by the municipalities and the more the municipal finances are lost, the more difficult it is for the municipalities to make investments. That is why these 1.5 billion schillings are so important, and that is why I appeal to the mayor, to the municipal mandate of the Austrian People's Party, but also to the Freedom Party: Support this proposal from the Social Democracy! He's very important, as I think. I would now like to conclude with a word by the already quoted President of the Austrian Community, Helmut Mödlhammer. He says in a newspaper article in the "Communal": "The match is not yet decided. Only after the vote in Parliament will we know who is on the side of the communities." I beg you: At least with this amendment, stand on the side of the municipalities!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e3873	The amendment tabled by Mr Magistrate. Schlögl, which he has briefly explained, has been introduced in accordance with the rules of business, is duplicated and is under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4157	On this occasion I would like to clarify the following: There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker and Dr. Stummvoll. However, this has not yet been officially introduced, although I have also released it for distribution. Mr Feurstein has now signed this request as an additional applicant. Therefore, if he is now officially brought in by the Freedom Party, he will be a request Böhacker, stupid, Feurstein, even if the copy that will circulate as a work agent does not contain the name Feurstein. But at the time of the official submission, Dr. Feurstein will have already signed. I would just like to tell you that there are no misunderstandings. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4181	Mr President. High house! Mr Heindl, in his statement – and his statements were repeated by other Members – said that the new solution means a tax increase. – This statement is not correct from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance. As a result of the combined solution, the proceeds of beverages have so far amounted to 5.6 billion schilling and will be only over 4.2 billion schilling. This means a reduction or a discharge by 1.4 billion schilling. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It has rightly been said that it is a matter of discharge. I have always assumed that the old drinking tax has borne to a large extent the consumer, otherwise the complaints that have repeatedly stated that there are overprices, among other things, or mainly because of the drinking tax, would have been incomprehensible. So I'm saying, They must have been worn by the consumer. [[Abg. Edlinger: That was wrong!]] I therefore expect that the current approval of 1.4 billion schilling will also be passed on to consumers. Some clear evidence is already available for this, see trade! Trade has passed it on. I can show you a drink guide from Vienna, which shows that the host has also passed the approval. So it's not that way, as some claim. Mr Heindl said that the town government would not have been involved in the negotiations. I quote a representative of the Stadtbund from their own journals – the EU knowledge came on 9 May. March 2000 – and it says – I quote literally: "It was also immediately responded: ==References====External links==* Official website March" – that is the same day! ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website On March 28, the Federal Minister for Finance replaced the first political exchange. March 2nd, with intensive discussions at civil servants level in between." - Quote. So what was the city government not involved in? The municipal government and the municipal government were involved in these discussions from home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was said that the new regulation would distort competition. That's right! That is how we consciously made it that way! We wanted to send a signal and have excluded non-alcoholic beverages from the new regulation. There should no longer be the pretext that a youth in the disco says he has to grab a beer because the Coca Cola is too expensive for him. As a result, new regulations have been introduced. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: What about tea and coffee?]] Of course, the old drinking tax was a cornerstone in the financing of the communities, but that was put out of dispute from home. That is why we started negotiations on the same day as the EU's knowledge, but all the groups concerned, including those from the economy, were not disputed that a replacement solution must come. The advertising levy has also been criticised: there are different rules and tax stocks, including with regard to the distribution of leaflets. – There was from the house the requirement that no extension of the tax item should occur. We have adhered to this policy, to this wish. So it was just about securing the existing generation in a new form. I think it's a good solution in this sense. We will also make conceptual clarifications by means of tax leavers. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Kogler criticised NATO exemptions. – NATO Liberation is only an implementation of EU rules. We are therefore obliged to do so. Mr Edlinger has complained about the impact on the communities. – That’s right, there is an impact on the communities, namely: There is an administrative relief for the communities, because now the federal government is making the tax collection, no longer the municipalities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Debureaucratisation is taking place. The federal government is relinquishing 300 million schilling when it comes to its rise, because it has now guaranteed an increase of 4.5 billion schilling. So far, the rise has been declining. Because EU illegality has long been feared, there have been many oppositions – up to payment refusals. It was a falling payment morale for the drinking tax. Now there's a secure comeback. In addition, the communities, as all of course, are invited to benefit from potential savings potential. There are potential savings potentials for example in joint purchasing or sharing infrastructure. Mr Edlinger complained that there was a break in 2000 and that something had been secured. – There was no concrete regulation for the year 2000, but only the annual tax revenue for the year... [[Abg. Edlinger: Even Mr. Mödlhammer is throwing this before you!]] I also talked to him about this, and I made it clear. I put it right now: An agreement of over 4.5 billion schilling for the municipalities was ensured. [[Abg. Edellinger: Seven twelfths!]] The transitional arrangement was not discussed at all, only after that was derived with seven twelfths an aliquote remuneration; or we said: since it is a gradual introduction, after the actual tax revenue, because the individual provisions do not enter into force at the same time. Mr Edlinger, you also quoted the last ECOFIN. – At ECOFIN, it was made clear that the new government is making massive efforts to reorganise the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The ECOFIN has also made it clear that since 1997, not only has there been no improvement in the total debt in Austria – we are still not yet under the 60 percent rule, which was necessary for the entry of the euro – but we have even experienced a deterioration from 1998 to 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Who was the Minister of Finance?]] This is the main annoyance in the EU that, despite a massive tax package in 1997 – when practically 100 billion schillings were brought in by the citizens, mainly on the revenue side – that despite this income improvement no sustainability in debt reduction has arisen. This is the main accusation we receive from the EU. It was cited that the municipalities together with the Municipal Government had put forward a proposal for a commitment of purpose. – This solution could not be complied with from our point of view, because it would have caused an enormous amount of procedural effort. Of the 5.6 billion schilling that would have been introduced in tax, an administrative burden of 1.2 billion schilling would have been necessary. This is a solution that is not portable for us. The proposed solution to the discussion today builds on existing collection procedures and is therefore extremely administrative. We also reject this for budgetary reasons. It should also be noted in the literature that, if possible, commitments of purpose must be completely abolished. I therefore gather: The new solution sets clear emphasis on an approval that will benefit the consumer. However, this also sends clear signals towards youth, because non-alcoholic drinks are cheaper. Finally, one builds on the fact that the communities have a safe tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4307	The next speaker was Mr Schwarzböck. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4328	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary Dr. Finz has just, in a grateful way, presented the development of the political debate on the replacement of the drinking tax. I can therefore take care of the political moments. In this regard, I have to say – and this is difficult for me, because I have a very correct and pleasant personal cooperation with them – that all the speakers of the Socialist Group are opposed to all the speeches by Mr Heindl, by Mr Edlinger, by Mr Schlögl and, I assume, when he speaks in the way he has articulated in the committee, by Mr Gaßner, are rather influenced by the refusal of reality and the conversion of ideology, although they were the main cause of the problem of this old drinking tax regime. I would like you to do this very objectively... [[Abg. Welcome: That beats the bottom of the barrel!]] Mr President, I would like to make this very clear to you. You can then enter the discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] For decades, the drinking tax could not be changed out of insistence, although it did not satisfy the import intensities at all. The large profit-makers – that is, financially strong communities – have tried with all means to prevent the tax reduction process, which was overdue for decades with a fair distribution of revenue according to the new commercial and consumer habits. This also includes social-democratic cities and larger municipalities. That's a fact. It is obvious that in the two areas affected by this – in the area of beverages administered in the gastronomy, and in the field of trade – there are completely different developments. We do not have in the gastronomy the change of structures that there has been in trade. These changed structures in trade, with large-scale shopping markets in central places, had led many financially weak communities from this area of beverage tax no longer had any income at all. On the other hand, central places – I am thinking only of the "Shopping City Süd", Wiener Neudorf, the most financially strong municipality at all in Austria – are the main beneficiaries of a cross-regional purchase and thus of consumption taxes and consumption taxes of citizens from the most financially weak communities. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! What you are trying to express here during the entire budget debate – that the government is making a redistribution from bottom to top – you have done so for decades with the drinking tax – not with regard to the individual, but for the municipalities, the richest of this country – fully! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is also your political and ideological problem, that you no longer pursue a family social policy, but one according to voter behaviour. Where you expect the social policy to succeed, you are social – but where your interests are at stake, you can also be on the side of capital or the rich. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gaßner – you can reject it here – said in the Committee: You want the previous per capita output to be cemented in the new allocations. – I personally express my support for the fact that, in view of the completely changed shopping habits we have, sometime, when the transitional periods for the communities, including the rich communities, we come to the same head rate, at least from the previous parts that have come from the commercial-related beverage tax. You have said that you do not want it – yes, because of course you speak where your interests lie, for the higher yields and for the financially strong communities. Finally, I would just like to give an example of this which I experience in my neighborhood: two social-democratic communities in the neighborhood, one of them a district city with 10,000 inhabitants, where the purchasing power flows in the beverage sector of the entire political district; and a social-democratic community with less than 1,000 inhabitants, in which there is no single business. The result is that the mayor – both of them from the same group – supplies all consumption taxes from its citizens to his neighbor, so to speak, who has a much higher financial strength and many other options to finance his municipal tasks. This step can certainly only be the beginning of a development which, in the financial balance, we are not only calling into question the rate of downgraded population keys, because it no longer meets the post-war conditions at all, but also includes making a policy in relation to the consumption tax revenue, in which some of the structural developments that we have in this Republic are taking place. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] They have not yet assessed what it means in the field of excise duties to operate in border areas of the internal market, if there is no shopping opportunity at all in Austria, because it is possible to buy 20, 30 or 40 percent cheaper already a kilometer beyond the existing internal market limit. Mrs Lichtenberger of the Greens went so far as to claim the opposite to the positive effect. With the increase in alcohol tax, not the quality products become more expensive and the fuel is cheaper, but just the other way round. In the quality product – in the case of fruit fires and in other areas – so much is needed today in service and manual work that the beverage tax has not taken into account. With the alcohol levy, which is aimed at the concentrated proportion of alcohol, however, products that are highly alcoholic are taxed – from me from a lower quality, but I do not take the word "fuss" into the mouth – much higher than that at the drinking tax. Let us therefore return to the subject matter. Let us also try, in the sense of tax justice, to leave taxes in the area of excise duties where the citizens they pay actually have some of it. To transfer the consumption taxes of buyers from small communities to the richest communities, which can also carry out many luxury expenditures, and not even leave the basis for financing the vital infrastructure in small communities – this is your ideology changeover and is one of the things you have claimed in the other questions of government work here in recent days!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4393	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4414	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumers at the audience gallery! No other subject is so concrete, and no other issue is as basic a problem as the drinking tax. In concrete terms, it's about what everyone needs. Fortunately, water is not yet taxed – even a drink. In principle, it is a matter of total funding from different bodies, be it municipalities, countries or federations. For me, therefore, the debate on the drinking tax is also a matter for a more critical examination of the debate on the distribution of financial resources between the companies. I was very surprised at the preliminary discussions in the so-called mayor's party, in the so-called economic party; I could also say: in the so-called country's main party, the ÖVP. After all, the ÖVP covers two bodies – now they are even three – quite majority in government: The ÖVP has many mayors, the ÖVP has many heads of state. The ÖVP now also places the "Junior Partner" under quotation marks, but the chancellor in the Federal Government. Now this party, which is on the move in all these three bodies, is on the lever, does not create a truly meaningful overall solution to the problem of the division of the financial spaces... [[Abg. Auer: What would be your sensible solution?]] Yes, I then have proposals, Mr Mayor Auer, Mr. National Council member Auer, unfortunately not Mr. State Captain Auer! [[Abg. Auer: Mrs Colleague, present this!]] I am referring to the concrete proposals in a moment. I would, however, like to start by rolling up the problem. [[Abg. Auer: But specifically!]] For me, it was very significant or glaring to observe the pirouettes, which Mr Collegue boldly turned, and on the other hand to experience the arguments which Mr Mayor Mühlbachler from Freistadt stands in. From both of them spoke a lot of hangings and squeezings, with which this croak – than more can be described – is now to be decided. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: With compromises always like that!]] It was also very significant for me that a Mr State Secretary, who has a very good reputation in the financial world, here puts his punctual signals with three elements. I'm saying, You mentioned two signals, and I say you even sent out a third. Your first signal was in the direction of approval, this signal, with the Vienna – what's the name? – to go to consume beverage, shopping or other host guides in hand. I'm curious about that; you're still guilty of the approval signals, please! I do not think it is reasonable that the governments of ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and so on, including the FPÖ, with an inn-house guide from Vienna make the most of the best place in which the drink tax reduction on the menu and in the number really manifests itself. So, as far as the first signal is concerned, I'm curious if it's going to change. I'm taking the second signal about youth from you. No question, non-alcoholic beverages can now finally be significantly cheaper if the host really goes to work rigorously. I'm curious if the host thinks so much about the youth and less about their income, or if the traditional behavior – first comes its own exchange, and then perhaps the youth – is going through again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third signal you didn't explicitly send out, but through your presentations implicitly, was the signal debureaucratisation. If, according to this solution, the drinking tax is now lifted by the federal government and not by the local authorities, this is a little useful for the municipalities, but I do not think it is a signal towards debureaucratisation. That's why I don't take your three signals so seriously. Those for the youth may still show themselves; the others are not so clearly recognizable to me. That's why I have to say: You too, Mr Finz, as well as Mr Mühlbachler and Mr Mühlbachler are in dire need of argumentation and here you have to pay gaps or put on a flicking work and make a crutch that is likely to turn your stomach around three times personally – whether you have been drinking or not. – This was just put into the room as a presumption. Now on the area of root proposal – like otherwise, since we are always accused that we are criticizing! Mr Auer, who is now working internally in discussions, is also blaming you that you have no other, no better, no alternative proposal. Mr Kogler and I have already mentioned a number of things. [[Abg. Auer: Which one?]] I repeat: In my opinion, I do not believe that drinking tax-news are intended, because I admit that the commitment to use is always a question of the few manoeuvrability or also of the bureaucratic element. I also admit that in an IFES survey 82 percent of the municipalities addressed have expressed their support for a commitment. However, the root of the problem lies in the financial compensation. It is our proposal that we should finally give the individual smaller bodies, including rural and urban communities, a corresponding share of the tax revenue. I now point out the example of really really questioning the country's situation in the most intensive way. [[Abg. Auer: It helps the rich communities again!]] In part, for example in Lower Austria, it is no longer available; in Upper Austria it is 10 percent. But still know That is exactly what you are saying, Mr Auer: If you are going to head of state Pühringer and have a concern, you as the ÖVP mayor can hopefully trust that he opens his drawer, takes out a few of this thousands packerl and perhaps gives you away. [[Abg. Auer: That's how it happens to me very often! But also at the Hochmair!]] Yes, please, but this is a system of feudalism, and in this system of feudalism are very many small communities! Mr State Secretary! It is also your task to resolve this feudal relationship between municipalities and countries in connection with the financial compensation and to assign to the municipalities as well as to the cities the contribution which they are entitled to directly from the Bundesbank. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must be at the beginning of the 21st century. By the end of the century, the mayor's race to the local representatives or to the national leaders was finally over! Get the upright course by securing the fair share of your federal income in the course of the financial compensation! I am of course aware that the problem lies in the occupation of the financial compensation. Nine national representatives sit there, but only one representative of the Federal Government and one representative of the Federal Government. This imbalance, already purely in number, should be eliminated. Make a clear and clear rule of procedure, a statute for the round of financial compensatory negotiators! Get two or three other representatives and participants from me, as representatives of the federal finances, so that there really is parity! Not only do we want joint committees within the framework of the social partners, we want to finally also parity in the financial negotiations. It is not to be seen that, so to speak, the smaller elements of the population, such as the municipalities or the countries – the countries less, rather the municipalities – are always looking through their fingers again and again. There's definitely an emergency. You know that the financial compensatory negotiations are already under way, but beyond a structural reform. Please take the momentary discussion about the drinking tax as a reason to tackle structural reform in the financial compensation! Then you can raise some things to a new level, and then you can save yourself from these mischievous discussions in which discussion participants have to turn against their own interests more or less the word in their mouths. In principle, our proposal is: Democratisation of financial compensation. Our proposal will also be presented in the direction of ecologizing the financial compensation. Our proposal represents a modern, new, truly EU-compliant tax system, for which many and meaningful harmonisations are necessary. Our proposals are not so to speak at the expense of the small consumers or the small consumers or the small communities. All in all, our proposals have a big title, and that is simply "eco-social tax reform".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4545	The next speaker was Mr Trattner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4567	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling another amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, which is a bold one, namely the VAT law. The amended formulations are first of all for clarification, namely with regard to pastries and bakeries. The pastry goods or pastries consumed on the spot are subject to a 14 percent tax rate, while the others taken with them are a 10 percent rate. Furthermore, it is a matter of adjustment in the Fees Act. This change in the Fees Act should restore the original condition before the novel in the course of the tax reform 2000: that free of charge exists again when one of the participants is established abroad. [[Abg. Edellinger: Wär’s classes! Speculant freedom!]] No, that has nothing to do with speculators, but they have so far been avoided – you know that very well – with trust agreements, with lawyers and the like. These have earned a lot of money, so the amount of fees from this title was small. They were confronted with this situation themselves, Mr Edlinger, Minister of Finance. What is more, Mr Alt-Finanzminister, about efficiency: You have once conducted a private trial because of bad reluctance, which you lost in 1994 at the Supreme Court. The cost of this private process did not pay you, Mr Edlinger, but you had them transferred from MA 6, which was in the order of 256 000 p. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So the most expensive!]] Imagine, the head of the state of Carinthia Dr. Jörg Haider made it possible to pay for a private trial from the country of Carinthia, which would be the case at the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4672	The amendment tabled by Mr Trattner in substance by Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Feurstein is already distributed and is under negotiation. Furthermore, the selected request Böhacker, silently supported, is also under negotiation. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4922	The next speaker is Mr Ing. Kaipel to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e4943	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already a matter of getting out of here and of taking the view that the taxpayer is under this drinking tax scheme...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5043	Mr Kaipel. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak now on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of the European
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5059	Thank you, Mr President. – It is interesting when Mr Stummvoll says out here that taxpayers are paying less on the basis of this new regulation of the excise duty rate. Mr Finz is also representing this opinion. I believe that the current regulation, which has been repealed, still applies at least to consumers. These 10 percent will continue to be abolished. We are all in the middle of life and can find day by day that this is the case in most cases. This 10 percent is therefore paid by the consumer. The municipalities lack this 10 percent. Of course, the communities also have responsibilities and obligations, they have to see that they come to these funds. You can only do this about the local people. This means that for the second time, the consumer, the municipal citizen, comes to the fore. I bet with you that if you have decided on this new regulation today – if not immediately, then with a delay – this will also be applied to the drinks. Then the consumer, the citizen, pays for the third time. Mr State Secretary! I hope that if you think that now the communities no longer have to bear the effort of collection, this will not mean that the communities will have to do so on the detour. But what is happening here today shows the spirit in this government. You continue the way of redistribution, you distribute 1.5 billion schilling from this title towards economy and take away the communities 1.2 billion schilling. This means that municipal funding is becoming more problematic, and this also means that many jobs are being destroyed. But with workers you have nothing to do with hats, which were also you in the past sausages, you proved this last year on the question of the law on black and white workers, when we were the workers on the construction, who could really have supported the commuters, but were black and blue against it. Why this is so is easy to experience: because those who earn gold noses with exactly this system are sitting in your ranks. Mr President Mödlhammer, who has been quoted so many times today, is right if he says that the communities are in a very difficult situation. The communities are burdened in many ways. tax reform: almost 4 billion to be borne by the municipalities; Drinking and advertising taxes: 2.5 billion; Maastricht: 6 billion; total: 12 billion schillings that the communities have to bring in. This is a considerable scale if this amount is compared to the 16 billion schilling available to the municipalities as discretionary expenditure. I mean, Mr State Secretary, it does not make sense to deal with the communities here. After all, the municipalities are direct employees of 100,000 employees. They award annual orders in the order of 60 billion schilling and thus secure at least 60 000 jobs. I hope you do not want this job security to be given in the future. The municipalities are also active in many other areas, for other authorities and institutions: for the state governments, district chief teams, health insurance funds, the radio service, the social security, the agricultural board, hospitals, the statistical central office and the like. Do you want the communities to stop these support? – That would mean half of Austria would be lame. I think that the dimensions arising from it have not been sufficiently considered in the preparation of you – and this, although the Federal Chancellor and other high-ranking officials of ÖVP and FPÖ have repeatedly claimed in advance that for the municipalities this tax must remain that this must be retained as a municipal tax. But you've got this before the 3. October, promised before the elections. Today, after the elections, you don't want to know anything about it anymore. But we are now used to it by you, Mr. Khol, just from you. In the past, you have told Austrian citizens a lot of things you haven't observed afterwards. You only wanted to go to the government if you were at least second. "It's not a state to do with the liberals," they were your words, Mr. Khol. – Today, those with whom you can't make a state are your partners. You also told the Austrians before the elections that there will be no tax increases. What's going on? – 40 billion schilling take away the weak in the state, 20 billion schilling give to the rich. You always address budget problems, at the same time go together like Easter and the Christkind and pour out the filling horn over your clients. As you repeatedly quote Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger: The difference between the current and the former Minister of Finance is that the current Minister of Finance is a lobbyist for Mr Stronach up there and Finance Minister Edlinger was undoubtedly a lobbyist for the weak in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] "Rerule new" means class struggle in pure culture for you. Today, some of the EIA's MEPs are no longer in our ranks if they have realized what they said before the election, namely that they no longer want to be there if they have to coalate with the liberals: Pecker, brinek, ginger, morak. - They're all still here! Mr Khol, you always have at least 180 degrees between speeches and actions. The scepticism you always carry at the front is not real. I will return to Mr Mödlhammer once again. In a discussion yesterday, it was confirmed that the figures presented here by the Minister of Finance are "Milchmädchen- und Kindergartenkontaktionen" (Milchmädchen- und Kindergartenkontaktionen) - so to speak yesterday - that you were hard to be deceived by the Minister of Finance, that the Minister of Finance has no handshake quality and that the municipal government will not carry this package. – These are the current statements, ladies and gentlemen. Why? – Because the Minister of Finance once again had to kneel before Mr Leitel. If this comes, ladies and gentlemen, this means a further burden on the citizens, weakens the communities, prevents the development of infrastructure in the communities, weakens the culture in the communities, which is of vital importance to tourism communities, and weakens the economic location of Austria. I therefore believe that the preservation of communities as a powerful unity is crucial to the future of our democracy. In the communities, the citizens experience the first and closest relations with politics, and there he also makes his first and also permanent judgments on democratic institutions. I think we should be most supportive of this development. I should therefore like to conclude by calling for a 100% replacement to be given to the municipalities for the abolition of the tax on beverages. I also call for the additional strengthening of the financial strength of the municipalities in the coming financial compensation, and for the remaining budgetary sovereignty and financial security to be maintained by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5156	The next speaker was Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5177	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If I were in Parliament today's first day, I'd really mean full heart: [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Would!]] Great, which fighters are on the side of SPÖ for the weak communities, great, like a former finance minister, a former finance city council also the city of Vienna, like a colleague elected to the mayor of the municipality of Purkersdorf, Mr. Schlögl, whom I very much appreciate as mayor, also as an interior minister, so that it is clarified, today, how important the financial strength, the equipment of the municipalities with appropriate financial resources is! Suddenly, it is necessary to have a 100% VAT replacement because the budget creation of the municipalities is at risk. - Yes, I say, right! Ladies and gentlemen! Workplaces. The economy is called upon and asked what impact this replacement, which we are presenting today, could or will have. I am also very excited by Mrs Moser of the Greens, who said that the key to the elimination of injustices lies in the graduated population key. – Of course, ladies and gentlemen! Only: I'm here in Parliament a little longer. For example, I have the copy of a letter from the Austrian Municipal Government to Mr. Finanzminister Lacina, dated 25. May 1994, in which the then Federal Minister for Finances is asked to inform the local government urgently whether, as a result of EU accession – at that time, it was expected – a abolition of the drinking tax, such as a press release by the then Minister of Finances, was intended. However, the Austrian municipalities would have to be informed about this before the vote on EU accession, which is to be read in the final sentence. – An answer by the estimated Minister of Finance Lacina was received until 3. In June 1994, ladies and gentlemen asked. Of course, then Minister of Finance Lacina replied, as it was, but very late, namely, 7th. July 1994, and not, as requested, a month later, but several months later. But he gave great comfort by writing: ==References== I will inform you of the following: The drink tax is an essential basis for municipal financing in Austria. A change in this area is not intended. Also, accession to the EU will not require adjustments in the area of drink tax, as the tax on beverages is in its current form quite compatible with European law." [[Call the ÖVP:Ah!]] "This opinion was confirmed by EU Commission experts in Brussels. With the expression of excellent respect" So, ladies and gentlemen, now I note: [[Abg. Schwemlein: Work with the future, not with the past!]] On the basis of a letter from the Federal Minister for Finance, Lacina, the Municipal Association will of course have said: Wonderfully, the matter is fine, we have no need for action, so we do not need to make precautions to make changes, adjustments or something else if a member – and after all Lacina was a leading member – will hopefully not be challenged – when a leading member of the Federal Government and a recognized financial expert informs with letter and seal that it is all good. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You should have listened better to the liberals than to this Minister of Finance!]] Well, what is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? – The ECJ has abolished this drinking tax, because it has already been announced – and this is what many of us who were there at the time –. My question: Who cheated on who? Has the Federal Minister for Finance, Lacina, deceived someone, or has the local government deceived someone? – Because of this letter, however, I do not believe that. Ladies and gentlemen! I also admit that today's replacement solution is not the final conclusion of wisdom and that it hurts; it is also made clear. And I am also pained by the somewhat disunity process of those local authorities or those people who represent the cities and communities. In the first reaction, Mr. Gemeindebund-President explained to us: A painful compromise, so to speak. The city government states that the solution may be acceptable. The Oberösterreichische Gemeindebund strongly protests against it. The Lower Austrian Congregation writes to us that we may agree. Ladies and gentlemen! Given such a great "unity" – under quotation marks – negotiation is of course a little easier. I would really ask that more be done here on the eve of new financial compensatory negotiations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Schlögl! Before reading this SPÖ amendment, I really meant that this amendment was all right. However, if I read in it "The country-by-country distribution of the shares of the municipalities takes place in the sales tax to 33,581 B.H. according to the population, to 42,893 BC." – that is, for the most part – in turn "according to the graduated population key", then, I have to say, continue the injustices. – We give this a clear rejection, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: Insanity!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is still an open point. I expect with all my determination the solution to the question of all due repayment obligations if the communities are painful – I emphasize: the painful! – lose almost one quarter of the income of the drink tax. But the question of repayment must be clarified by the Confederation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The question of repayment is to be clarified by the federal government, for this is not the case that the practically clever companies will then be able to collect the drinking tax, but the municipalities will be left in the rain. It won't play, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that today, after the great rallys of all the political groups on financial power, on equipment, on the right of opportunity here from the speaker's desk, I would like to say: You can start the proof of truth during the forthcoming negotiations on financial compensation. The small, financially weak communities will wait for this day and for your proof of truth. Today’s solution – I say openly – I agree with tooth gnawing. It is not an ideal solution, but it is at least a little better than the previous solution, where some things are in question, and much better than the continuation of your injustice.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5292	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5322	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to address one point in this tax package, which the Green Group will approve – therefore we have also requested separate vote: This is a change in the Income Tax Act, which from our point of view is a small but very important step in the right direction, namely to subject artistic work in Austria to appropriate conditions. The fact that social legislation is very important framework conditions for the so-called creative industries in Austria is known and clear for years now. It must be noted, however, that during the time of the last coalition government, these opportunities have not been used in the last eight to ten years and that a number of tightenings have occurred, particularly in the tax and social legislation, that the situation of artists in Austria has deteriorated considerably. A few examples: I refer to the general abolition of VAT exemption, to the foreign tax, to the local tax, to entirely obsolete taxes such as the entertainment tax or to hidden things like police surveillance required and calculated in the Security Police Act - I am still coming back to this, which is a special absurdity. As a result of the change in social legislation – keyword: new employees, new self-employed workers, service-like work contracts et cetera – the situation has once again worsened considerably. The biggest problem, namely artist social insurance, remains unresolved. Although this is enshrined in the government agreement – Mr Klubobmann Khol nodds – a corresponding request from the Green Group in the last committee has been postponed. I assume that this question will be dealt with as soon as possible, since this problem must at least be solved by the end of the year. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are we aware!]] If you're aware of this, I'm glad! I'm glad. We will review this at the end of the year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I would like briefly to bring some data on the social and tax situation of artists in Austria to describe a little in which field we are moving and what infinite possibilities there are still, so that Austria might become something similar to Ireland. I know that Vienna must not become Chicago, Vienna must not become anything, but I can imagine that Austria could become a real location for the so-called creative industries in this area. All research on the social and economic situation of artists in Austria clearly shows: Their situation is extremely bad, most of them earn less than 8,000 s a month. The situation of women in particular is particularly worrying, their income is even lower. It is interesting that these artists, although unable to compete with their livelihoods from these incomes, are still pursuing their profession – and there is no other professional sector. It's particularly dramatic among the musicians – I come from a musician's family myself –: In this area, there are countless fragmentations and very complex situations that people have to deal with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Especially the freelance musicians have to insure themselves, that is, they pay 33 percent of their income in serious cases, and if they have a very low income, this is a massive problem. I'd like to make a small bill: At the minimum contribution base of 7 400 S you pay 2 440 S. Suppose you earn as a young guitarist in Vienna, Mr. Collegue, only 4000 S a month – that can happen at all – you pay half of your income for these charges away. It's unbearable! [[Abg. Kiss: I believe you do! But what are you talking about?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Movie Creator: More than two thirds are working in extremely uncertain conditions, with fixed-term contracts similar to work contracts, although they are wise, although they are highly dependent on producers. This is also an area where there is a need for massive action. [[Abg. Kiss: Income Tax Act! Sales Tax Act!]] The adoption of an artist's social insurance law is one of the biggest concerns in this legislative period, and I hope that this will be done by the end of the year. [[Abg. Kiss: Mr President! That's not the subject!]] Further point: Income tax law, the tax recognition of expenditure – perhaps more to say in the direction of SPÖ – is: There is a very close interpretation on the part of the Ministry of Finance that even readers and writers cannot even drop Lexika and larger books. – So these are things that are not necessary. This would have to be a major revision. [[Abg. Kiss: She speaks to other laws! You're at the wrong event!]] I do not think you know what an adjustment of tax and social legislation can mean for certain areas. We are talking today about a change to the Income Tax Act. I would like to make one more point. [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of Abg. Kiss) You don't even know what's on the agenda! What are you talking about?]] I think you should appreciate that the Greens agree to a proposal from this government. Appreciate that we are not playing fundamental opposition, but that we are through... [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: This has nothing to do with the drinking tax!]] The amendment of the Income Tax Act is also on the agenda. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Artists are also affected. I don't think anyone's noticed this yet. I am sorry that this division of workmen in Austria is always so disdained. That's on the agenda today. None of the government's fractions have noticed that this is the vote today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: (in the direction of ÖVP) You do not even know what they vote! Wake up!]] On today's agenda is as follows: Amendment of the Income Tax Act. I would just like to take a very brief and final point, which is very important to me, because it concerns especially the youth culture scene and the young artists. This is an accusation that I still have to put forward in the direction of SPÖ, if we are already on the issue of tax and social legislation in recent years. The last Minister of the Interior in front of Schlögl, the Federal Minister of the Interior One, has carried out a truly incredible increase in prescribed and calculated police surveillance in one area, a quadruple. What does that mean? – If, for example, student groups want to make a graduation event in a garage, police surveillance is required, and this is also charged. This costs the kids, the students 400 S the hour. And this is a "adjustment" – under quotation marks – of fiscal framework conditions that such events may also be able to chill. So I wish for the next few months – to be addressed to the government groups – a real package that benefits the tax, the tax, turnover tax and also social legislation in order to facilitate artistic creation in Austria, so that Vienna may not be Chicago or New York or whatever, but that Vienna becomes something comparable like Ireland – a real location for...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5488	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5503	... creative industries in Austria. Unfortunately, these are things that the government factions have hardly heard of, but I think that is quite discussive. Look at this! Have fun!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5533	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5554	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to make another amendment. You know, ladies and gentlemen, in the Financial Committee, there has been legal uncertainty as to whether the current regulation on advertising is so well-founded that it does not lead to double taxation. Mr Grasser, Minister of Finance, has promised in the Committee to have this provision debated here and to vote again in detail. It has been examined five times, and we have now reached a three-party consensus on it. I'd like to explain this briefly. You know that according to § 15 Financial Balance Act 1997 now the studio principle for the taxation of announcements by broadcasting or the principle of taxation according to the venue is secured. This is a change that has taken place in two stages. ==References====External links== January 1999 imposed new charges, which were drawn up in accordance with the old principle, and this, of course, causes problems. The amendment I am about to make is intended to ensure that there are no double taxation, and this is also constitutionally secured. That is why this three-party consensus was necessary. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The aim is to ensure that there is no recalculation and that the municipalities can expect calculable revenue. It was important to us. I am pleased – and I would like to stress this – that the Socialist Group has also agreed with determination that this need for change exists. I do not know whether the Greens will agree to this change. I invite them to do this very officially. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to make one sentence on the amendment tabled by Mr Schlögl, the new/old mayor of Purkersdorf. Mr President, I should like to thank I would have liked this proposal. It's hard to say anything about it. But it seems important to me that a serious point is mentioned: They have not made a cover proposal, and that is the problem. [[Abg. May. Schlögl: Did you make a cover proposal earlier than opposition?]] As sympathetic as the application is in terms of content, its implementation is problematic, because the money is missing. And if one does not make a proposal for cover, Mr Commissioner, then one cannot agree to it, because you know that the finances are scarce and the disaster is great, the predecessor of the Federal Minister has left outside the service of Edlinger. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] It's a dictatorship of empty cash registers. So we really have to stretch to the ceiling. We as the opposition party have not always made cover proposals, I admit. Therefore, these applications were also rejected. This is the role of the opposition. It's a different role play, you need to find yourself with it. Unfortunately, I do not think that we can vote for this proposal because of the reasons I have explained.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5629	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5653	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ten months ago it was now around, as the local government has obtained a signature in general planning of all mayors in Austria for a resolution to all clubs here in the house with the essential content of putting in place legal measures in the area of beverage tax in order to prevent any financial damage to the communities, with a few points still in addition and at the end: full replacement when it comes differently. It was different. In the light of the economic chamber elections approaching at that time, there was a need for a sugar choice for hotels and gastronomy. Then the self-proclaimed mayor party ÖVP has forgotten its mayors and their communities in particular, and has not given its approval to a proposal for a solution. The FPÖ doesn't have too much on the hat with the municipalities anyway. This is only because the drinking tax has to be removed without replacement and that the municipal tax is also called into question or has to be abolished and, finally, with such approaches, ladies and gentlemen, finally also the municipal autonomy. The "weigh of democracy", as it is always called so beautiful, should not be so important to the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. With pure populism, it has not been achieved too much in municipal politics. In the community it is more difficult to act only populistly, there one must confess color, discuss the decisions with the people and stand for them. The self-appointed mayor party ÖVP prevented a solution for the municipalities in July 1999. If the Federal Chancellor now claims that the old tax would have been a good tax, I would still give him the right. But if he added that we would not have gotten to the brink with this solution, I ask: Mr Bundeskanzler, it is a slave solution if municipalities are to impose a tax on health expenditure when municipalities impose a tax on the care of older citizens or, for example, for the rescue service, which in the future must surely again finance the communities, because the civil servants are missing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The commitment to use would still be possible today, as the French example shows in the EU. You just have to want it. And that, Mr Schwarzböck, I do not see him now, I meant in committee when I said that it should remain the way it is. Interestingly, according to an IFES survey, 76 percent of Austrians are also in favour of leaving it that way. If you talk to the host, you will find: It is an ever-increasing number to leave it as it was – with a commitment of purpose. Because no one knows it any more. And administrative simplification cannot at all be said, one only needs to remember when exactly which tax applies and when which tax is not. Interestingly, as a result of the current drinking tax solution required by the ECJ Decision, a government proposal is on the table, which, among other things, provides for a new food tax instead of the beverage tax. [[Abg. Silhavy: scandal!]] This is really interesting, especially for those who are forced to go to the inn because they work outside because they have to commute. Have you already thought about how the food will be delivered by innhouses, for example for school supplies, for the supply by "eating on wheels"? Or: What about the big kitchens? There is also a service. Will their services now also become more expensive – and this only because we have found no other solution for the replacement of the beverage tax? Ladies and gentlemen! I've been claiming since 9. March – since then, the drinking tax is no longer paid – there is a winner: the gastronomy that – with quite a few exceptions – has simply not passed on this tax departure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And there is a loser, namely those who continue to pay this tax: consumers, taxpayers, our citizens; they pay this tax. I therefore make the following request with my friends: [[Quoted print version removed]] § 7 of the Price Act states that if products are cheaper due to a tax reduction, this approval must also be passed on. However, because I am not quite convinced that such controls also benefit something, or more precisely, because I am not at all convinced that the consumer will pay for it a second time, namely when the new taxes are introduced, because then the current level, from the level of old calculation, is assumed, although the old beverage tax is still included, and then the new tax will be charged. Thus, our citizens are asked to register for a second time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They will certainly be asked to cash out a third time via the municipal finances, because the communities will lack the money they will no longer receive from the withdrawal of the drinking tax and from the new scheme: a good billion schilling per year! And what about the repayment? – I am eager to see if Mr Mayor's colleague Auer will also shout so loud against it when it is discussed here in plenary. I am eager to see if he still knows these words when it comes to paying back some 20 billion schillings. Above all, I'm eager to see who will get this. Will that get the host? Or will it get those who have paid this tax, the consumers? An unresolved question – which is not spoken of today, however, because you do not yet know how to behave. As a result of this loss of revenue, investment will certainly stop in the municipalities. Who cares? This is the case with small and medium-sized enterprises in our communities, because they have been the first to benefit from the municipal orders. So again a attack on small and medium-sized enterprises and on jobs in these small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grandruck: I'm with you anyway!]] Mr Grossruck has come to the fore earlier, but the citizens are not even interested in the drinking tax at all. – I think it’s very interesting, Mr Mayor, if I have to tell at home: The canal will not be built next year. [[Abg. Großruck: The citizen is not interested in where the money comes from!]] There is a house builder waiting for the canal, and one who has been waiting a long time for his access to the canal to be asphalted. I think the citizens are very interested, dear colleague, if they can't get it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not to mention that, in order to be able to meet the Maastricht requirements, the municipalities have to think about where they could increase any additional fees. In this context, the good advice always comes: Save! Mr Böhacker said it again today and some others too. I invite you all – the time is too short to carry it out – to really look at community budgets and then to say where can still be saved. In this context, I would like to take a very firm stand on behalf of all the mayors and all representatives of the local authorities in Austria against a statement by the tourist speaker of the Freedom Party. He's in a press release on 26 May. April claims that only the inability of the mayors and the municipal representatives is due to the fact that they cannot give up savings of around 3 percent of the municipal income. I hope you're directing it to him: He doesn't know each other in the communities! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially dear mayors from the ÖVP, from the mayor party! The President of the Federal Government takes note of the solution with the gnawing of teeth, but at the same time says at a mayor's demonstration in Gmunden that he is glad that he is strengthened. We all – you too! – the resolutions of the Quarter Conferences of April this year have been given by the Upper Austrian Congregation, in which the demand is clear and clear: no circumcision of municipal finances! I also consider the unanimous decision of the Upper Austrian Landing Day to be interesting, which states: The financial strength of each municipality must not be weakened. The principle of local income must not be ignored. And – very important – the previous form of tax is to be retained as a municipal tax. – ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens have agreed to this, a unanimous decision. We have received such signals from all the federal states and from many, many mayors. I am already looking forward to how you will behave in the vote on Mr Heindl's request for full replacement – your request from the previous year. I'm also excited about how you're going to behave when it comes to the Seven-Twelf rule. According to the Secretary of State, the Minister of Finance has not yet said anything about this. I think that is not quite true, because he has said very well that there will be nothing more, because the communities would have more income in any case this year and would have come even more from the settlement water management fund. What's the matter, please, with the drinking tax? This is only possible because of the good economic situation and not because the drinking tax has been changed, Mr State Secretary! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you all who may agree to the replacement solution with the excuse that the communities get at least a little bit: You betray the case of the communities, and you promote the gradual hallucination of parish democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5776	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by the honourable Members. Gässner and comrades are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. Next item is the report by Mr Sevignani. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5801	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I would like to begin by saying a few words to the first speaker on the subject of drinking tax replacement. Mr Heindl! Was that the red philosophy: more burdens, less revenue? - You have to explain that to me sometime. Accordingly, after 30 years, SPÖ Minister of Finance of the State budget looks forward. They left a mountain of debt to the new government despite massive tax packages. Their concern for the households of the cities and communities is too late. Five years you would have had time to correct the failure of the Red Minister of Finance. Now on the subject: Without If and But into the EU – that was the SPÖ’s announcement. About the But has been discussed for hours today. I am convinced that the EU's accession negotiations did not or did not negotiate the excise duty. I'm starting with two findings. The first finding: The SPÖ Finance Ministers have known since EU accession in 1995 that the drinking tax will fall. They generated a five-year legal uncertainty due to their inactivity. The second finding: The government has to solve another problem that the SPÖ has left to it. – Ladies and gentlemen! You will remember: We liberals have already called for compensation for the communities at the time. In tourism communities, the infrastructure is financed by the beverage tax revenue. You, Mr. Ex-Finanzminister Edlinger, were not very interested in this. You pulled your head in and pushed it on – that was your policy! Whether or not the communities can fulfil their obligations was indifferent to you. That must be said. Under the rule comes a discharge for the beverage tax solution for the consumer, but also for the gastronomy. [[Abg. Leikam: Interesting!]] An offer to young people: to remove the drinking tax for non-alcoholic beverages and to afford alcohol a bit. I think that is an offer for drivers, for young people, for society as a whole, for consumers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As in the other areas of the budget, we must also clean up a disaster here. We're going to run out of a SPÖ soup. [[Abg. Swimmling: Don't be in there!]] Of course, we tourists with the replacement solution for the beverage tax are not 100% happy. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of responsibility, and we have this responsibility. For us in tourism, competitiveness is important. But it is also important for the well-being of our communities, our communities. The municipalities create the conditions for tourism to work through infrastructure. It is about maintaining the important partnership between tourism communities and tourism. It is about a tourism in a sustainable form. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Policy has the task of solving problems, not producing how this has been done by SPÖ Finance Minister for 30 years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that this solution will make it possible for the communities as well as consumers and the economy to live well. I'm not saying "mealing!", I say: For good!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5877	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e5898	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would just like to say very briefly, and especially to my previous speakers, that now the whole of Austria really knows that it is the government's favorite theme to look for guilty people to sidetrack from their own problems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This applies to the budget, which applies to the EU sanctions and obviously also to the drinking tax. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say: First of all, this is painful, second unprofessional, and third, you will soon get out of the scapegoats. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: I don't think it's enough to work!]] The subject of drinking tax: Ladies and gentlemen! A reduction of indirect taxes should generally lead to a relief of consumers. This government submits a beverage tax package that produces a loss of 1.5 billion schilling and charges consumers with higher prices. In the meantime, everyone here should know how this situation has come to be somewhat paradoxical. Even if the Secretary of State accepts or assumes that price reductions are passed on, it is simply the case that the gastronomy has not passed on the price reductions. I would also like to make available a survey of the Chamber of Labour, which proves this. At the same time, it was also found that trade has very well passed on price reductions. The price reductions from the gastronomy will not be passed on. I think we all agree that on the other hand, price increases, tax increases are very likely to be passed on and entered into the calculation of prices. As a result – even that must have been said around –: As a result, the present reform means: Firstly, the municipalities have to take a tax downturn of 1.5 billion schillings, which is not even clear what will happen to the 15 billion to 20 billion shillings of open recovery claims. Secondly, The money that is missing for the urgent investments of the municipalities is distributed to the economy. And this, ladies and gentlemen, without creating a single job. On the contrary, by weakening the investment volume of the communities, jobs may even be lost. Thirdly, As usual, consumers pay the bill – a logic that draws through government programmes like a black and blue thread. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the problem for the communities is heightened by the fact that the government also imposes a halving of revenue from advertising, without any real pressure on them. Apparently, one proceeds according to the motto: If the mayors are already offended, at least it should pay off. Ladies and gentlemen! But what I really don't understand in this context is that the government parties are acting as if they were putting in place these measures to clean up the budget. The budget target will only be attainable if the countries, municipalities and social security institutions generate a surplus of 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product. In this situation, however, communities are now deprived of a substantial part of their financial base, while funds are being distributed to the economy to the same extent – and this, although there is no real compelling need for it! Perhaps Mr Grasser believes that a few billion schillings are just small money anyway. I believe that if he wants to get his budget under control, he will need every billion, both those billions that will be missing from the communities and the budget as a result, as well as those billions that are to be distributed to the economy by reducing the additional wage costs and other things, although there is nothing to distribute. Ladies and gentlemen! Since we now know what this government understands about social security, we are of course concerned that the billions so generously distributed should be brought back through the wallets of the "small" people. Even if the drinking tax had been renovated under time pressure, a little imagination on the one hand and a little more sense of economy on the other would have been quite positively recognized by us. It is precisely on this question that there have been several solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] The municipal government, the municipalities and a number of other institutions have made proposals in this respect – some have already been mentioned today – which have been held by EC law, which would have reduced the burden on consumers and reduced the tax burden. [[Abg. Auer: Which one? Which one?]] – Maybe were You're not present right now, I don't know. [[Abg. Auer: No, no, I want to hear from you!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (in the direction of Abg. Have you been careful!]] This reform seems to have taken some time to find a solution that is annoyed as far as possible by all the groups involved – a tactic that perfected this government in the first 100 days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Consumers are annoyed because they have to accept price increases without benefiting from tax reductions. The mayors are thinking of protest actions because, as the President of the Austrian Community, who has often been quoted today, Mr. Mödlhammer xxx o.k. , expressed, "by the process of the Ministry of Finance feel heavily deceived" xxx o.k. Because Minister Grasser and the government "do not stand for their word". Also, the economy is obviously anything but enthusiastic, as we can take from a representative of the Chamber of Commerce, quoted today, in yesterday's issue of the "standard". Ladies and gentlemen! I join the position of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce: We are against a Husch-Fuch-Gemeindefundung, against a carpentry and coffee tax that meets the host and guests – and I would say: and communities – together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6026	The next item is the report by Mr Finz, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6060	Mr President. High house! I would like to refer once again to the arguments put forward. Mrs Moser is concerned that local and urban representatives do not speak enough in the financial compensatory negotiations, since they have only one representative there. – I can calm you down: We have had two negotiations so far, in which communities and cities were represented by several people each, by very powerful words such as the mayor of Linz and the mayor of Innsbruck. And I can assure you that they have not only spoken once, but also several times, so more often than all the representatives there have spoken together. So the municipalities and cities are very, very well represented in it! We are seeking a structural reform because stabilisation, consolidation of the budget, is only possible in the context of financial adjustment. That's our goal. We do not want to extend existing regulations, but we want to deal with the solution of all the problems. That is why we have dealt with all the financial compensation problems in 45 topics, and these 45 topics will be discussed in twelve blocks by the end of the year. In particular, hospital funding will be addressed, and the population key – there is a statement in the coalition agreement – will be carefully examined by professionals – who wins, who loses? – it will, of course, be discussed the topic of national teachers, it will be discussed the promotion of housing because there are many habits that are illuminating and re-examined. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you are talking about consolidations and savings, then of course all the local authorities are addressed. I have also mentioned today the potential for savings in the municipalities, but no one has responded to it. There are special specialist articles that mention exact amounts that are saved, for example, by a joint purchase. Anyone who travels through the countries can see that parallel baths, leisure halls are built that can be better used when sharing. Towards the EU, we act as an overall state. Consolidation is therefore a common public task, which all the representatives of the financial compensatory negotiations have in principle granted once. It was also asked today why no replacement solution was prepared. To this end: On the occasion of our case, we have immediately examined what is prepared in relation to the drinking tax. – Nothing was prepared! As in many questions, we have raised the present state of affairs: It was not just the 2000 budget that was not prepared, no surveys were launched in the resorts, no meeting took place, although at the time we already had the 4th meeting. ==References====External links==* Official website January this year had begun. [[Abg. Edellinger, is that right?]] Likewise, nothing was prepared for the beverage tax, no possible replacement solutions! [[Call to the liberals: This is the truth!]] We started negotiations on this on the day of its findings. That's our way of solving problems. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Reimbursements have been addressed. [[Calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is a very serious problem, of course, and we take it seriously too! However, this is a municipal tax, which is why, first of all – and there are also preparations and legal regulations – countries are required to ensure, within the framework of their legal possibilities in the case of a municipal tax, that – by means of bans on enrichment and the like – the legal possibilities to make such recoverys are limited. This is not primarily the task of the federal government! The artists were also addressed today. While today's artist social insurance is not the subject of the debate – which has rightly been established – we have already solved urgent tax issues that have been postponed for a very long time in this package today. So: We are dealing with the solution to those problems that have long been in place at the earliest possible time. The question of commitment has been mentioned again today and therefore the Community proposal would have been so good: Purpose commitments are also a challenge for the local authorities, for it is necessary to know in advance what purposes the tax will be used, and is therefore totally inflexible when other needs arise. It is undisputed in financial science that purpose commitments are abolished. They are not a good solution because they make it difficult to react flexibly to flexible solutions, to respond to new situations. [[Abg. Edlinger: Does this apply to FLAF?]] It also tells every finance minister when he is in office that commitments of purpose are to be abolished. [[Abg. Edellinger: Yes!]] Of course, if he's no longer in office, he says that commitments of purpose would be good. [[Abg. Edlinger: I don't have that!]] Today, the calculations and the point that tax reliefs are not passed on were also addressed. Calculations are one thing, but standing in competition is another thing. Only those gastronomic establishments that can really prevail in competition will remain. That is why I am convinced that these reductions will also be passed on. [[Abg. Edler: Mr State Secretary, the Chinese stand up in Vienna!]] However, we have referred to the competitive situation when we have not included the nuance in the increase in sales tax, because there is a strict competition. In addition, we will allow for administrative simplification in the form of a package so that the different tax rates can be dealt with in an administrative manner with a tax rate. [[Abg. Swimmlein: But the all-inclusive operations are affected!]] Today it has been repeatedly claimed that the Minister of Finance has no handshake quality. I repeat it again: There is and did not exist an agreement for the year 2000. There was only a basic agreement in which I too was present, which guarantees the communities 4.5 billion schilling. However, an aliquotation was then required, which is not correct in our view, because the individual taxes are staggered both in the old beverage tax and in the newly introduced beverage tax and therefore one has to take into account the actual revenue. We need to consolidate the budget and cannot simply provide any lump sum amounts with a view to a future solution. Mrs Kubitschek said that we would be distracting from problems. On the contrary, we accept the problems, we are not looking for the guilty. [[Abg. Sweamling: You're putting on the problems!]] I would like to mention these problems once again: We have solved the 2000 budget within 14 days, we have started the drinking tax immediately, still on the day when the EU knowledge was presented, and we have also started with the long-awaited question of savings book! In this respect, there was already a conditional FATF xxx o.k. -Decision that we will be excluded from this group if we do not present a solution concept by the end of May 2000. ==References== There was no concept yet on February 2000. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6245	The next item is the report by Mr Wenitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6266	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of today's debates by the Social Democrats, in particular of your, Mr. Finanzminister, other than Edlinger, one could think that a meteorite impact or something else unforeseen would have happened in Austria. – With no exception, Mr Edlinger! For years it has been known that the beverage tax will fall in the current form. Everyone knew that, only you obviously didn't! Secondly, it is fact, Mr. Finanzminister, that both your predecessors and you personally have done nothing to ensure a replacement solution in good time. You've had time for years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger:... nevertheless not right!]] – Your current teachings, Mr. Finanzminister a. D., are inappropriate and especially too late. [[Abg. Edlinger: The host did not agree to my proposal!]] Thirdly, this new federal government, with Mr Grasser and Mr Finz, has managed to find a replacement solution within a few weeks. Fourthly, I have to tell you that neither this Federal Government nor we Members of the Coalition Party are interested in finding a replacement solution that is burdening the economy, but it was simply not possible otherwise. I should like to remind you of all these newspapers in which the Community and the City Union have already threatened the Minister of Finance and called for a solution. This government was called for, and it really did it within a short time. I tell you openly and honestly, Minister of Finance out of service: Personally, of course, it would be most desirable for me to find a replacement solution for our economy for competition reasons. I'd love that! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: "flat tax" means the magic word!]] If the communities were to work more economical and efficient in the future if they were to save on the administration, then it would be possible! Then we don't need to look for any replacement solution now. I want to tell you a little bit about my own home community – I know how this goes. We were in a coalition with the Social Democratic Party for five years. [[Abg. The poor!]] There was a social democratic mayor and a freedom-wing vice-bourgeois. That has gone relatively well for two, three years, we have always been relatively agreed. In the fourth year, Mr. Mayor once again inspired the idea that this municipality with 1,800 inhabitants needs a brand new community center, a community centre with a hall for the elderly, with a bar, with a kitchen, with an event hall for balls, a meeting room for the community. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: And what about the freedomable vice-bourgeois?]] – Mr. Kummerer, I'll talk to you in a moment. What was the solution? – Mr Mayor has proposed to the municipal council that a leasing credit of 25 million schilling be received – for this is "nothing" for a community with 1,800 inhabitants – and that it should be rebuilt. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: And what about the freedomable vice-bourgeois?]] That is why I say clearly and clearly: In the future, the communities are invited to be more efficient, more economical and, above all, to save in the administration, Mr Edlinger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will not be left with anything else but to agree to this compromise solution, even in view of the fact that the economy is still spared by a total of 1.5 billion schilling in the future and can thus become more competitive. That alone is an aspect that I say, okay, that's the right step in the right direction. As I said, I am not quite satisfied, but I will agree to this compromise. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer:... black-blue up to the community level!]] Mr. Kummerer! I know you're talking a lot about it now, just like Mr Edlinger did before. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: What about Mrs. Vice-Citizen Master?]] I still miss a correction to my colleague Trattner's speech, which says that Mr Edlinger is more or less financed by the taxpayer, by the magistrate of Vienna, of his private processes. I would like an answer from you. That would be interesting! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why, how can such a thing happen? Every "small" taxpayer, every citizen in Austria is responsible for its own process costs. But a finance minister or former councillor can do that. [[Abg. Edlinger:... no process costs caused!]] There's no problem! Mr Edlinger! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] Don't talk like that, I've understood your statements very well. [[Abg. Edellinger: Come on!]] Mr Edlinger! You may be the cheapest Members in this House at the moment, but one of them is certain: the most expensive finance minister of all time for Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6447	The next item is the speech by Mr Schwamlein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6482	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this debate, the representatives of the coalition parties gave us a sad picture. I would even like to say: The mask of ever-long smile is off, which remains behind, is a stoned face, a face that can only frighten the Austrian citizens, the Austrian communities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Are you talking about the Gusenbauer?]] Georg Schwarzenberger, if you have anything to say, and don't bother me, because otherwise I understand from the background of this more than indispensable hump and dump debate that you're a farmer and a forest farmer, and then the Forest-G u mp will come out to you – and I really want to avoid that! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes, I will speak afterwards!]] So listen what I have to say! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We don't have such speech disorders!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What the stakeholders said about this was a very sad picture. Allow me a few quotes. Mr Leitl said: "Increasing VAT, without imagination". It can't go that easy, because it rules imaginationlessness and no economic sensibility." - Quote. xxx cf. Mr Leitel is the new Chamber of Commerce. It is not I who say this, but Mr Leitel, the representative of the economy, has said that! Mr Leitl also said – I quote –: "After that I look at whether one does not negotiate with the economy if it has reasonable proposals. That's what I'm really looking at." - Quote. xxx cf. We looked at it. Nothing was negotiated, not even talked to him, was driven over! [[Abg. Böhacker: That is wrong!]] That's how you deal with your representatives in the Chamber of Commerce. I know why my colleague is stupid about this. Mr Leitl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. But this Mr Leitl does not seem to love the coalition parties at all. In the end, he said – I quote –: "If we already have to take on a torture instrument, we want to take part in the nature of the instrument." xxx cf. Ladies and gentlemen! I have to tell you: If you are already making sadomaso laws, as Mr Leitel says, you should at least involve them in determining the nature of your instruments. But I do not just want to focus on the representatives of the ÖVP – Mr Mödlhammer xxx o.k. I no longer quote, for in the past this one has offered an image of most sad nature. I'll see him in front of me today! Mr. Mödlhammer last year in the SPÖ club – holding, with tear bags –: Dear friends of Social Democracy, please help us! – We said: We are happy to help you, but you need to talk to Mr Klubobmann Khol. Then he said: I just came from this one, but he just threw me out! [[Calls.]] I wonder, What is that for a president of the Austrian Community? – It is a sad picture that you deliver here, a very sad picture! Mr Khol, if you intend to make an actual correction, I must tell you that this is not possible because I asked a question, and my questions are not going to really correct you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol is heading towards the Bureau.]] But perhaps that is in line with the new Rules of Procedure of the House. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That was a statement, not a question!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to another political party, namely the Freedom Party. [[Oje-Rufe at the liberals.]] This is the party that radiates a very special harmony! I quote a very important and important representative of the Freedom Party, the Salzburg state party, not anyone, but the state partyobmann, the head of Böhacker, Haigermoser and some other colleagues – no, as you came to the National Council, we know! – namely Karl Schnell! [[Abg. Böhacker: I don't have a "chef", I'm a freely elected MP! You have a boss, the cast farmer!]] Karl Schnell says about his Minister of Finance that this one has no idea of the gastronomy. I quote: "The proposal to increase VAT on food... shows that the Minister of Finance has no idea of the gastronomy." xxx cf. - Quote. It's hard for me to contradict Karl Schnell. Although he may not always tell the truth, in this case he will probably have been right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You son of a bitch, why are you so red now?]] As the next essential point, Mr Schnell points out – I quote – that: "We all live by tourism. This should also be achieved through to the Minister for Finance. All in all, the proposals are to be rejected by Grassers,..."I don't even quote anything else, otherwise I would have to hurt you even more. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's debate, not only chamber representatives have spoken, they have spoken mayors, and so-called experts have spoken. [[Abg. Böhacker: Teacher!]] I say to you now: There is a letter from the Austrian Hotelierverband. In this letter, an urgent request is made: Please, dear representatives of the SPÖ, help us, help us that such a beverage tax solution does not come! What the Secretary of State said was wrong, and what the representatives of the government parties said was not true either, namely that this new regulation costs consumers and businesses less. We have even been given a concrete example of a company. [[Abg. Böhacker: Mag. Helmut Peter!]] On the basis of this scheme alone, it has an additional cost of over 400 000 S per year! That is, the Entrepreneurship Party (ÖVP) sends one of Austria's most renowned gastronomy entrepreneurs with a drinking tax scheme for next year, which costs him 400 000 S! [[Abg. Böhacker: Mag. Helmut Peter! Say it!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Did you think about it?]] This is a shame for an economic party – if you are one more, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He's pudding what Helmut Peter says!]] I'll tell you something. I've been for 15 years... – Dear Georg Schwarzenberger, you're a representative of the big farmers of Austria, let's say something about a financial representative of a small community. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The Swimmlein doesn't want to give the communities anything at all!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You are against the fact that the economy pays the communities a little!]] On the one hand, this financial reference is obliged to make a contribution to complying with the convergence criteria, so that we are Maastricht-compliant, so that this financial reference is very likely to provide a balanced budget, but on the other hand it should also be investment. – Only, the fact is that the free budget peak, for example in my community, was essentially formed by the beverage tax! If I am now taken away from this free budget, this will mean that we can no longer cope with an investment volume of about 100 million schillings! And who are we meeting with? – To represent the small and medium-sized economy, the economy you are proposing. I say from this point of view with all the clarity: They do not represent small and medium-sized enterprises! You are withdrawing the financial strength with your policy, you are withdrawing the orders for the future! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I would like to conclude by saying the following: Confess that it is a massive mistake to decide on such a new regulation, and do not at the same time complain of observing a lot in the future – as Mr Auer has said. I believe that the essential step on the subject of drinking tax is that we are working openly and with all our strength for the financial resources of the communities and for the well-being of the citizens. That means: Reject the proposal of the coalition parties!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6769	Mr Klubobmann spoke in favour of an actual correction. I do not have to add anything to § 58 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6802	High house! My previous speaker has put the claim in the room that I had thrown Mr. Mödlhammer out. [[Abg. Sweamlein: I asked!]] His secretary, Hofrat Dr. Hint xxx o.k. , will confirm to me: I don't throw anyone out, even you, sir...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6843	Mr Böhacker spoke about another actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6867	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Salzburg colleague Schwamlein said from this pult a few minutes ago that the economy in general and President Leitl in particular would not have been involved in the negotiations. [[Abg. That's what the Leitel said, not me! That's what you need to correct.]] - That's wrong! It is true that both the economic representatives in general and Mr Leitel were involved in several summit discussions. I myself was alone in four discussions with whom Leitel was also present. In addition to this, I would like to say that the economy has expressed its concerns very well and that there has been a wide range of adjustments to the beverage tax reform at the request of the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6916	The next item is the report by Mr Mitterlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6937	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you have to get 100 S from someone and then return 80 S for some reason, you will have to return the remaining 20 S less high and critically say that you have to return 80 S. This explains the current mood in the gastronomy sector. Based on the ECJ decision which, with the exception of non-alcoholic beverages, put the tax burden de facto on zero, one is not particularly excited if the government now presents the overall balance sheet, according to which if one sums up positives and negatives, one remains 1.4 billion schilling. I noticed in today's discussion that a little bit of the mood and also the attitude – according to the motto quoted several times today: "Old tax, good tax" – that you see it as almost illegal when someone claims the ECJ or a court to make such a statement. That is why I believe that we need to make some fundamental considerations. In my opinion, it must in principle be legitimate and allow everyone to have a system considered unfair, all the more so than we are now faced with more competition in a larger community. Secondly, it should be the normal, politically logical and compelling consequence that a decision taken by the ECJ, for example, is not only formally reflected or repaired, but is also taken into consideration by material law. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a question of confidence in legal certainty and the rule of law. The citizen has a right to take decisions into account accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, these principles must be implemented even more intensively when the complainants have declared decades of an unfair burden and have always fought with open vision. The Minister of Finance is out of service! You and your predecessor have already made a significant contribution to the fact that no substantially better solution has been found so far, because you have always put yourself on the point of view: There will be no other decision anyway, this will be confirmed anyway. – You need to know: In court and on the high seas one is exposed to the powers of the others! Secondly, I have to say why you did that. This has not been done because one wanted to challenge only arbitraryity or formal defects at the ECJ, but because the taxation of gastronomy is very high in international comparison. If you take away the drinking tax, then compared with other countries, namely competition countries such as Italy, Germany or Switzerland, we are still going ahead with beer tax, which means that we have competitive disadvantages here. Ladies and gentlemen! It would be a matter for the economy to come up with its position: We want the decision to be respected! We do not carry a new burden! – However, the economy has not done this: out of responsibility to the whole, and especially to the communities. The communities are our most important client. We are concerned that this will be settled. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we could have imagined other points of reference. The basic tax and the basic income tax have already been mentioned here, but there are also exemptions for 20 years when someone builds a house. And there you should already ask the question: Who is the one who actually uses the infrastructure in the congregation? Why can't we move ahead with better regulations? [[Abg. Leikam: Now let the house builders stay here!]] This is actually shed milk, which does not help us. We have now drawn up a proposal for a resolution which is now before us. This proposal for a solution contains something positive and a few drops of wormwood. The positive thing about the whole thing is that a total of 1.5 billion schillings are lost, the negative is the increase in VAT for food and beverages. This is negative for a number of reasons which I would like to address. One reason is: It is not possible for every hoster to pass on a tax increase one to one, otherwise he would not have had problems in the competition already, and otherwise we would not have such a high number of bankruptcys. A second reason in this context is: The scheme is, of course, distorting competition. Why? – Because they reward those, for example in the trade sector who have secondary rights and deal with them by 10 percent, or reward those who can make holidays at the farm with a flat-rate arrangement and offer everything. That is why we are concerned about the principle. A third reason in this context: The bureaucracy is not necessarily less. One who now operates nights and gastronomy has a nighting tax to pay, has to take into account a VAT rate of 10 percent for the nighting, 14 percent for breakfast, and 20 percent if someone drinks another coffee. Therefore, from my point of view, it is quite clear – that is now the desire towards the future – that: It must succeed in removing all this bureaucracy on the leave, so that at least the resolution is quite normal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say the following: We have tabled alternative financing proposals from the economy – President Leitel has been addressed several times here – because we have expressed the opinion that on a broader basis and with a solidaric act on the one hand, the willingness of all entrepreneurs to contribute in total, and on the other hand, the willingness to accept the gastronomy would have been greater. There were the problems of time, and there were very limited opportunities in the negotiating area, especially in the compensation area, so that no better solution has yet been achieved. The logical consequence would therefore be to consider whether the economic operators and the economic representatives can at all agree here. We have decided, after a long discussion, that an overall project is at stake here, that it is probably not for prejudicial reasons to prevent some kind of tactical. Therefore: With tooth gnawing and knowing that there are still some possibilities to handle the regulation in a way that is quite practical, we also agree with this decision – in solidarity with the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e6997	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7018	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Mitterlehner, yes, it is a question of confidence that the members of the Chamber of Commerce put in their representatives here in this House. After hearing – this is also to be read in a press release by the State Secretary Mares Rossmann – the re-regulation of the drinking tax on the leave is intended to lead to an unbureaucratic regime for the hotel industry. Where, Mr Mitterlehner, do the small inns stay? Where are the small country guest houses represented in this package? Still I can't read anything in this broadcast, nor do I hear from the "small" hosts that they will not be affected by this flat-rate arrangement that is to come for the hotel industry. We need exactly this "small" host in the rural communities, we need for gentle tourism. This regulation distorts competition with these "small" hosts. You have also said, Mr State Secretary, that it is not possible to consolidate the budget on the one hand, and on the other hand to produce any lump sum amounts. If I read now that Mrs. State Secretary Rossmann wishes for hotel deals on the leave, please, but also flat-rate amounts for the "small" host. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is in the Committee's position, Mrs Colleague!]] I invite all of you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but also of the FPÖ, to agree with the SPÖ's request, which reads as follows: Motion for a resolution Pk by Mr Hagenhofer and Mr Genossins on equivalent arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Finance is invited to ensure that, in connection with the replacement financing of the drink tax for restaurants with a few rooms (up to 10 beds), there is no additional burden on tax clearance. The tax settlement permit should provide for generous arrangements for small gastronomy. I'll invite you to: Voices Please accept our motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7075	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hagenhofer, comrades and comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law in 101 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has made a request for a separate vote on Rule I. In addition, Mr Heindl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 15 in Article IX. The vote on this request has been taken by name. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Schlögl and Mr Comrades submitted an amendment. This has also been called for by name voting. Finally, Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. Firstly, I will vote on the parts concerned by the request for a separate vote and the amendments or supplementary proposals referred to above, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on Article I as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Deputies Böhacker, Dr. Stumbling and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new point 10a in Article II and new points 2a to 2e in Article III. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign in this regard. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. In addition, Deputies Böhacker Dr. Stummvoll and Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning Article II, points 5 and 12 and Article X Section 1 para. 3 introduced. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a positive sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. Mr Heindl and Mr Comrades have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 15 in Article IX. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The voting papers to be used are located in the drawer of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink polls. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Heindl and Mr Comrade's supplementary motion, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. I now ask the author, Mr Mag. Schweitzer to start with the name call. Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7176	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes. (The competent officials shall take the vote. – The meeting was suspended at 13.08 a.m. and resumed at 1.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7210	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 177; of which "Yes" votes: 77 and No votes: 100. The amendment tabled by Mr Heindl and Mr Comrades on a new point 15 in Article IX is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaal, Gazner, Glavish, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Lacner, leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Schashing, Schlögl, Schwemmlein, Silhavy, Sima, Stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischl Harald, Freund, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Haupt, Hofmann, Hornegger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leinner, Lentsch, Lexer, Loos; Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of which: Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Platter, Povysil, Prince, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rasinger, Reindl; Schender, Schoettel-Delacher, Schöggl, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummful; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Windholz, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7386	Deputies Mag. Schlögl and comrades have tabled an amendment concerning several paragraphs of Article IX. The vote has also been called for. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken, and I am therefore going as far as we have just done at the first vote. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Schlögl and comrades vote, "Yes" - polling paper, those who vote against throwing "No" voting paper into the urn. I now ask the author, Mr Mag. Schweitzer to start with the name call. Member of the European Parliament Auer will replace him later. Until now, I am still pleased that the Austrian Municipal Association is also on visit today under the leadership of Mr. Mayor Kröll. I welcome him to the heartiest place in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7437	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7471	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 177; of which "Yes" votes: 77 and No votes: 100. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. It is therefore rejected that locks and comrades relating to Article IX. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Antoni; Bauer Sopie, Binder, Brix, Brosz, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gaßner, Glavishnig, Grabner, Gradwelt, Green Forest, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, kostelka, herbs, cubits, sorrowers, kuntzl; Lacner, leikam, Lichtenberger, Lunacek; Maier, Mertel, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pittermann, Plank, Posch, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Rider, Riepl; Schashing, Schlögl, Schwemmlein, Silhavy, Sima, Stoisits; Van der Bellen, Vergestnitsch; Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Amon, Auer, Aumayr, Bauer Rosemarie, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Böhacker, Bösch, Brinek, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischl, Freund, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Count Martin, Grollitsch, Großruck; Haigermoser, Hakl, Haller, Hartinger, Haupt, Hofmann, Hornegger, Hornek; Young; Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; Leinner, Lentsch, Lexer, Loos; Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of which: Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Pistotnig, Platter, Povysil, Prince, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Rasinger, Reindl; Schender, Schoettel-Delacher, Schöggl, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Sodian, Spindelegger, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummful; Tancsits, trattners, drinkers; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Windholz, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7647	We shall now proceed to the vote on the parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their approval to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is also the majority and thus adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Gässner and comrades in respect of compliance with the price law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagenhofer and Mr Comrades on equivalent arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the draft law in 102 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu, Mr Böhacker, Mr Stummvoll, Mr Heindl and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment or amendment. There is only one request. I shall therefore vote on the draft law as amended by the additional or amendment mentioned above. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. Paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure expressly determines the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 102 of the supplements in the version of the supplementary or amendment amendment tabled by Mr Böhacker, Dr. Stummvoll, Dr. Heindl and Comrades. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is unanimous and therefore also adopted. I therefore establish the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted, and thus the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution has been reached or exceeded. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Financial Committee to take note of its 103 Supplements report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7768	We are now entering into a short debate. This concerns the request made by Dr Petrovic, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the 102/A request concerning the condemnation of anti-foreign, racist and the Nazi regime of impoverished statements of FPÖ politicians, a period of time to 5th. In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. The word first receives the applicant. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7803	Mr President. High house! I tabled the motion for a resolution 102/A some time ago. My colleague and spokesperson of the Green Club, Ulrike Lunacek, has summarized in a similar request even further statements and has requested the same. I would ask all Members of the House, in particular the ladies and gentlemen of the EIA Club, to look more closely at this request, provided they have not yet done so, and to consider seriously whether the adoption of such a request would be the decisive step towards moving into the European debate on Austria's relationship with the other 14 EU countries. For some time now, criticism has been expressed by the opposition parties, understandably, by the government factions, that Europe has gone through Europe without any reason, totally without cause. We believe that this debate will help to determine who is responsible, whether the occasion of these so-called sanctions is justified or not, only if there is a serious willingness to deal with statements that have unfortunately fallen in and outside this House in the past. Now we know – there have been representatives of the Green Club who have shown this over and over again – that there are such statements in other European countries. These are regularly made by neofascist, right-wing, right-wing populist parties. There are also, especially in elections, other parties – there were also in Austria that should not be kept silent at all – statements which are quite similar to those mentioned here, which I do not need to read again, unfortunately you know them. That's right! Only in the past has it been the Freedom Party – we believe that this has been an essential motive for the European debate – which has clearly overcome the bow in elections. I remember the Vienna election campaign, I remember other battles, in the context of which these statements already had such a method that it was apparently no longer apparent that they were going too far. [[Call:Workerkammer election campaign]] – People have also made statements during the workers' chamber election campaign, which do not deal specifically with politics and the political party system in Austria. I've really heard this a lot on the street and I have to say that's too far. I would really invite you, if not today, perhaps as a result of a debate in the Constitutional Committee, which is also addressed to the Members of the Liberal Group, to reconsider these statements. I don't think anyone in this house would fall a stone out of the crown if they said: In the past, this was an overshadowed election-retoric, that was agitation, and at least from today it should be different! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that this would be very important, because this could give Austria and Austrian politicians the weight that we can also criticise such statements in other European countries, which are not in harmony with human rights. Those who turn at their own door will also acquire the legitimacy to show if it is not the best for human rights elsewhere. Without this willingness to take a critical look at these own statements, we are forever entering the debate that is expected to look for scapegoats, that conspiracy theories are spun and similar. [[Abg. Fischl: Start with yourself!]] You would have the opportunity, with a serious discussion and the adoption of this request, to get out of this deadlock. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, yesterday's debate showed that it appears, even to gain media attention, that this proposal is being taken further away and that the old agitation roller is running again instead. I have already noticed, and it is also the media debate that not a few Members of the Austrian People's Party parliament also felt that it had reached the border. Meanwhile, the 100 days are over, and now free politicians have been sitting in government offices for more than three months. It would be time for these persistent blumbers to be abandoned by verbal rides, be it now slanders of other, any degrading nicknames, or be it really clear derailments that raise reminiscences to the NS time. If this continues to be done, then you do not need to wonder if there is no productive discussion in Europe, and then it is really necessary to say: We're the poor, the others put us to the prange, if you don't want to talk about it. Do you like these statements? - I don't like them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As I said, on our part, I can say with certainty: If it were not for the liberal Members of this House, of whom at least the Members discussed yesterday, we would like to say that there was no Member of Parliament and no Member of Parliament, that they would be willing to talk about it seriously and also to reach a decision, as the European Parliament has already done, then it would certainly be of respect to all the Members of this House – I do not think I am saying – and no one would encounter such a procedure with hems or any negative expression of feeling.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7875	The agenda was actually exhausted before entering the short debate. The list of speakers is not exhausted. The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e7899	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to point out what we discussed in detail yesterday in the context of the debate, and I would not like to highlight the fact that, of course, the outcome of yesterday's debate, the statements and the statements made in particular by representatives of the FPÖ do not give rise to too much confidence. I think it is in the sense of the whole, it is in the sense of the Republic and of the Austrian citizen to keep trying to get away from it. The reason for this lies in a single cause that is sun-clear. That is why I do not understand why you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – I appeal to you, because I believe there are things that are more or less removed from day-to-day policy and so to speak, and that is one of the points – not together with the opposition – perhaps you are also making convincing work with your coalition partner – to finally take the appropriate step so that we in Europe have again the importance that comes to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you also know, I still know from our common coalition time – that the statements of the former obscene and currently massive decision-makers of the Freemans are inconceivable. We saw yesterday what happened during the discussion, how suddenly the behaviour of Mr Westenthaler changed, when Haider was sitting there on top of the gallery. We have experienced how the ratio of Haiders to the rest of this club actually is. We all therefore know that Haider is still the dominant person in the FPÖ who makes statements. [[Abg. Fischl: That's what it's supposed to be like!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, probably benefit from the fact that the statements of Haider are not really known in the public. If I read the statements in the request, for example the statement that SS members should be role models for Austria, then I must say, you cannot seriously believe that this is a policy, the understanding in Europe that will lead to understanding in a developed world, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Auer: How many were in the SPÖ?]] What does it take to explain this to you? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I'm reading something else to you now. Haider stated in 1990: "spiritual freedom is a natural thing in a democracy, but it finds its limits where people claim that spiritual freedom they would never have received would not have held their heads for others." Yesterday we heard the proposal made by Haider that we should do something here, introduce something which means nothing but finally quote political dissidents before the judge. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl.]] In the course of an objective discussion, you must note that what you propose to implement is already planned on the basis of the legal situation. That is why it is not intellectually louder, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! You cannot constantly rely on your inconsistency of legal matter, although I already understand that you coke with ignorance and show it to us permanently. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Communist dialectics!]] You cannot afford to do this when it comes to defining a moral position – we are in no moral space, I would like to say on this occasion – which clearly makes us a community of values. I can only tell you that the fact that Haider has made statements that you have not yet distanced yourself from them, the fact that a discussion took place yesterday, in which Haider called for an unthinkable thing, and the fact that the Federal Chancellor does not find it worth dissociating himself from it, but rather makes it ridiculous, not only by gesticism, but also by saying that this is a summer topic, cannot lead to the fact that we, namely, this government, abroad – also domestically – being given the respect that ultimately belongs to us as the Austrians and which is to be reconciled with the position we have worked out together. They endanger the reputation of this country in a sustainable way. Please note! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll finish. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's the best you can do!]] – Mr Westenthaler! I believe that you are not really – I do not know for what reasons – aware of the situation. I take note that you always believe you have to say something. I think that sometimes it would be better to say less than much, especially as regards your explanations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Haider has been successful, the FPÖ has been able to take bowl hostage, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So much nonsense in such a short time – absolute world record!]] In turn, it is through a campaign, so I would say that I do not wish to qualify more closely here, successful in taking all Austrians hostage.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8029	Deputies! Your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8044	Finally, it has been found that Schüssels Problem Haider has become a problem for all of Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your time has expired!]] We do not need that, and I urge you to take the appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8083	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8104	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Petrovic would like to repeat that the National Council is making a condemnation of a single or several Members, former Members of this Parliament. I welcome the fact that this discussion can take place today in a relatively relevant climate. Let me explain a few points: First of all, I think it is very problematic to try to condemn a party, a democratically legitimate party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to refer you to the Party Act, which expressly states that the diversity of political parties is an essential part of the democratic order of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Oellinger: Not the parties!]] – I come to the second point, let me first deal with the first point. The Party: It's about the party first. If a party disturbs this democratic order, then this party must be banned. This happened in 1989 when a party was banned by the Constitutional Court. And then the Ministry of the Interior also dissolved the association that this party had agreed with. Second point: They now demand that individual politicians be condemned. Here, too, I refer to the party law. In the Party Act, a constitutional provision clearly refers not only to the members of a party, but also to the Members of this House: Their activities must not be restricted by special legislation. – This is the free mandate, which is also enshrined in the party law and, of course, in our constitution. I believe that there are, of course, more and more statements that need to be condemned. In an interlocutory call, you pointed out that, for example, in 1988, a member of another group also made statements that certainly did not correspond to our sentiments that should have been condemned. No one here in the house thought at that time that a condemnation by the National Council had to be made. That is not possible either, Madam President. This is not possible, for there is an instance that has to be condemned by making statements that violate our laws, and these are the courts. The courts also make such convictions from time to time. But I mean, we have – and this was said yesterday by Mrs Fekter – not a reason to change our criminal code, but the acts that are contained in the criminal code and can lead to a condemnation are sufficient. I'll tell you something. The statements quoted in your application do not include any suspicions that could lead to such a conviction by criminal courts, otherwise – that has already been said yesterday – it would have happened otherwise our prosecutors would have had to intervene already. It is therefore not such a statement. In conclusion: I am opposed to the fact that there is a condemnation of politicians, no matter which group they are. And I believe that this is unacceptable. I do not have to judge whether your request is acceptable at all. But one thing I find out: In my view, it is unacceptable to carry out such a thing and to demand it, and we will therefore never be able to give our consent to both the setting of deadlines and your request, because this procedure is not adequate for the procedure we have decided here in the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8151	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8172	Mr President. High house! I feel temporarily transferred back to a time not long ago, but obviously forgotten, in a country where with the daily fascism cult one has tried to find its inner legitimation. The GDR and the SED have always understood this very well. They have needed the antifascist protective wall in order not to end up subject to any democratic influences. It was also going on at the time and would have been that everything that did not have the same attitude, namely a left-wing extreme attitude, was equated with right-wing extremism, with racism and so on. [[Abg. Oillinger: Now it is socially capable!]] And I tell you, the GDR had its antifascist protective wall around the state borders, but you carry it around your heart – every day and again! That's a fact. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You recognize what is important to you in politics by your way of action. You also agree with many representatives of the Socialists. And I believe that the change in the name of the Social Democratic Party of Austria will not wait for long. I'm sure they'll soon become the old socialist party. You'll track it all. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Wittmann and Heinzl.]] But what is really important to you from the Greens in politics? An environmental theme? – I don't hear anything about that! The daily swing of the fascism cult is important to you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And this also prevents environmental issues from perhaps being debated in a more prominent position on the next agenda. I think you're not a green party anymore, and this has come out well in the discussion. You are a red, a dark red, nothing else. It's all the rest of your life out of your mind. Only the internal legitimacy in the swing of fascism is important to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] How dishonest Your request is to show that you are always trying to remove a party-political spectrum. If you had really meant it objectively and honestly – and I am not going to put it to you in this matter at all at all; we know it better – then it would be right after your diction to say the words of Mrs Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Member of this House, was made on 6 June. ==References====External links== She said at the time: All liberals and sympathizers should once meet the full hardness of the law, namely, 20 years behind lattices. – She wanted us all locked up! That's your attitude, but it's not condemned. That's normal! [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of green) This is your technique!]] The daily criminalisation of the free voters and the free representatives – this is important to you! The criminalization, the in-de-eck pressures and the daily indirect and immediate accusation that we are re-activators, that is important to you! With the most cruel regime, contact us! Not we bring and wish the NS time back to this time! They bring them to the policy agenda every day! They quote from the laws of the time and say that this is going on again today. They bring it back again and again, not us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not without occasion!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Sometimes you might even have the suspicion that you wish for this time again. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's huge!]] We want to leave this time behind! You must learn that this time is over! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The way in which my previous speaker, Mr Jarolim, acts is also dishonest. They forget the workers from your ranks, and therefore you are dishonest. What about your brown spots in the party? Does the colleague still have his mandate, yes or no? Get out of here and take a position on this! Look at your own door and don't always try to shake us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Turn in front of your own door! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Socialist Double Quote!]] Considerably, I am also in favour of the following, and this is actually much more important to me in this discussion: If the SPÖ Parliamentary Group invites us to a survey here in the House – all Members of Parliament and the people as well – it sends a comparison under the title "Rassism and Past Treatment in South Africa and Austria"?". [[The speaker holds a document on which a red SPÖ logo can be seen, in the height]] And now I'm telling you something: That's exactly what hurts us abroad! You are setting the Republic of South Africa with Austria! [[Abg. Brix: Have you forgotten which posters you glued on?! Have you forgotten your posters?- Oh, my God!]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[General unrest in the hall.]] They put it as if we had racism here, daily murder and death, as is the case in Johannesburg and South Africa! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] As if we had mass murder here, apartheid policy and the like!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8369	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8385	You are trying to create this picture domestically and abroad, so that you have your legitimacy for maintaining the contemptuous sanctions of the EU-14! I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8434	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8477	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, you will not succeed – even if your colleague, Mr Partik-Pablé, continues to try to put something in the room here by means of intervening calls – you, Mr Graf, will not succeed in denying or forgetting by allegations towards opposition, what your party has made in the past and in part also in the present state of affairs and where you yourself stand, Mr Graf. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Fischl: Who's throwing on? They're throwing us up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Look at you! Do you distance yourself from what Stoisits said?- Oh, my God!]] In the "Falter" of this week there is an article...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8550	Ladies and gentlemen! A short debate offers each group the opportunity to speak for only 5 minutes. I therefore ask, in these 5 minutes, to give the speakers the opportunity to be heard! Please, ladies and gentlemen, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8569	Thank you, Mr President. – Mrs Partik-Pablé, I am now referring to the comments made by your colleague, Mr Martin Graf. In this week's "Falter" your freedom-at-national or national-free connection "Olympia" is quoted. The Ministry of the Interior's legal extremism report for the year 1999 attests to the Austrian student connections, which are summarized under the umbrella association of the German Burschens – including the connection "Olympia" – that they are "understated and proclaimed right-wing extremism" and that the "agitation of these student connections also shows the attempt to create a certain acceptance for national socialist thought". [[Abg. May. Trattner: Who said that? Was that the new builder?]] Mr Graf, even if you do not listen to me now! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf is in conversation with a group colleague.]] You will not succeed in acting now as if you had nothing to do with all of this, as if the measures of the EU-14 had nothing to do with statements by politicians and politicians of your party and with a certain attitude! Just because the FPÖ, since it was in the government, has a blue-black government eyeglasses in the environmental field and therefore does not see environmental issues anymore, does not mean that we have given up the environmental issues! – That only in your view in the past. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: For a long time!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why are you dressed blue-black today?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Because this is a modern color!]] Now to my colleague, Feurstein. I believe, Mr Feurstein, that you simply did not read this request very carefully from us. This is a request which says that, for example, the European Parliament has agreed to a similar request, even the large majority of Conservative Members. These Members did not mean that parties, individual politicians or politicians should be condemned here – and that was criminal! – but they have understood this very well so that it is about political condemnation and the political removal of statements by individual people, individual politicians and not about their criminal condemnation as politicians or as individuals. You have, in principle, misunderstanded that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They didn't understand that we don't want a criminal conviction. Yesterday, Mr Böhmdorfer was there, who could very well take up such a proposal by the head of state of Carinthia. That's what it was. Your government partner, it wasn't us. I would like to come back to the EU level and finally get out of the situation we have with the EU what you might see as an opportunity. It is not just that the people in Brussels are guilty of it or the 14 EU members. The ÖVP still does not see or wants to see that the Austrian Freedom Party should do something that Fini has brought about in Italy in the mid-1990s. [[Call: Stop]] There it has succeeded in breaking up with the fascist tradition, and individual right-wing fascist parties have then split themselves apart. They don't belong there anymore. In this situation, this would be an opportunity for Austria, and this is what we want to do here with this proposal and the deadline – so that this can finally be discussed in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8686	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8702	Once again, my request to the colleagues of the ÖVP is based on their Christian-social attitude: Take it as an opportunity to agree to this request, finally to make clear where Austria stands, and to show that you too can and want to make a contribution to it!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8732	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Petrovic, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on Amendment 102/A concerning the condemnation of anti-foreign, racist and the Nazi regime of impoverished statements by FPÖ politicians. In June 2000, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00026_d7e8768	I am still announcing the introduction of Amendment No 165/A at today's meeting. Questions 801/J to 803/J have also been received. I call for the next meeting of the National Council today at 2.03 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
