ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1754	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of the 40. Meeting of 18 and 19. ==References====External links== Meeting of 19. In October 2000, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. The President of the National Council Dr. Heinz Fischer, as well as Dr. Grünewald, Mag, are reported for today's meeting as preventative. Lunacek, Dr. Partik-Pablé, Dr. Glavischnig, Gaál, Lackner, Leikam, Nuremberger, Dr. Zernatto, Dr. Spindelegger and Dr. Fekter. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1791	The Federal Electoral Authority has received notices that the Deputies are Mag. Herbert Haupt and Harald Fischl have renounced their mandates and in their place of Ing. Kurt Scheuchund Mag. Gerhard Hetzlin was appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words "I promise". I now ask the author, Mrs Haller, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1824	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties." On call for name by the writer Haller, the following honourable Members make the fishing observation with the words "I praise": Ing. Kurt Scheuch, Mag. Gerhard Hetzl.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1857	I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1885	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Mag. Wilhelm Moltererwill be represented by Federal Minister Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture Elisabeth Gehrerby Federal Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1920	I also have a letter from the Federal Chancellor, which reads as follows: "Dear Mr President! I should like to say that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 24. ==References== 300,000/6-BEV2000, on my proposal in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Dr. Elisabeth Sicklvom Amt has discharged. At the same time, on my proposal under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany has Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt appointed Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations." For the communication just read, I have the request of five Members, according to § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. Are objections raised against the immediate implementation of the debate? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e1968	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2063	I also announce that the Fifth Report of the Incompatibilities Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Before entering the debate, I very much welcome a delegation from the German Bundestag under the leadership of Mr Brunnhuber, a member of the Bundestag. [[General condolences.]] Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2095	Let's go into the agenda. In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the duration and shape of the debate as follows: A day block time of 6 "Vienna hours" has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ 117 minutes, liberals and ÖVP per 87 minutes as well as green 69 minutes. For the first three hours, the following speaking time agreement was made: First of all, at 15 minutes' speaking time, the Federal Chancellor will be given the floor, then one speech per group will follow each 15 minutes, then one word by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations with 15 minutes speaking time, one word per group with 10 minutes speaking time, then one word by the Vice-President with 10 minutes speaking time and one word per group each with 8 minutes speaking time. For the next three hours, no time-limit agreement has been reached, so that the rules of the Rules of Procedure apply in this respect. We shall now proceed to the vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by common accord. Discussion on the appointment of a member of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2138	We are now entering the debate on the communication concerning the appointment of a member of the Federal Government. [[The women's representatives of the SPÖ appear consistently dressed in suit and tie at this meeting.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2169	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I can announce and justify a reform of the Federal Government in the social resort. Social policy has been at the centre of political reforms over the past nine months and will remain there for the rest of the legislative period. We have started reform dialogues with all the major groups in the country. Government, opposition, social partners and scientists have contributed, and we have already implemented part of the reform programme. First: The 2000 pension reform is a very big and important step in adapting pensions to demographic conditions, in order to make them safer for the next few years and decades, while also introducing structural reforms that were urgently overdue. We have thus secured pensions for the older generation for this legislative period. We have not imposed any unbearable burdens on young people and have the chance to have their own pension. And we have at least halved the increase in the Federal Pension Insurance Fund that occurred without the reform. A first important step! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For the first time – moderate and socially compatible, but nevertheless – this Federal Government has increased the age of entry for early pensioners by 18 months. This reform is socially fair because all the groups concerned, whether officials, employees, railways or farmers, are fully involved. I believe that it is very important that all professional groups are really involved in such a reform. New is also the commitment to system care. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever is predicting today's generation that pensions are safe in any case, and in the future there is no need to adapt the system to changed issues such as life expectancy, employment or financial viability in the long term, does not say the truth! This has to be said today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The opposition has to this reform, which with 1. October, that is, a few days ago, that came into force, expressed massive criticism; we know that. In particular, it was claimed that there would be massive labour market impairments. - That's not the case. They all know the data: Employment is increasing this year, and it will continue to increase by almost 1% next year. We will have a record employment of 3,1 million self-employed workers, and, most importantly, unemployment among older workers tends to be even more marked than total unemployment. At the end of September, only 35 000 unemployed, over 50 years of age, were reported. This is almost 22 percent less than the same month of the previous year, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This reform was therefore necessary, it was correct and it was actually enforced socially. Secondly, we have had a fair and scientifically objective review of the entire social system. A committee of experts under the leadership of Professor Mazal has tried to involve all groups, and in the case of total social security expenditure in Austria, some 760 billion schillings have at least been carefully reviewed with regard to 300 billion schillings, which is socially fair, less fair or not afforded at all. On the basis of this expertise, the Federal Government has then identified a total volume of around 5 billion schilling as a potential saving potential – we were also involved and informed in the opinion-building process in parallel – with an overall volume of 0.7 percent of the total social expenditure or expenditure. I think that's absolutely all right. I believe that we are now particularly good at parliamentary level with the forthcoming talks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Allow me to express my warm thanks to Elisabeth Sickl, the excreted Minister of Social Affairs. She has dealt with very difficult tasks with the other members of the government, without thanking her very much, Mr. Col., for the fact that the Republic had been burned, as some people claimed. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] I thank her specifically for this work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The high acceptance of the measures is also a consequence of teamwork in the Federal Government, in this case under the leadership of Elisabeth Sickl, and social balance. I think Elisabeth Sickl has put a lot in motion in the last nine months. No matter how public opinion or opposition appreciates this, I would like to thank you on behalf of the government. What she did for our country was important! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To present Herbert Haupt, her successor, is not necessarily necessary here in the House, as I mean. He has been a Member of Parliament for many years since 1986. His access to the subject of social affairs is well-founded, he was a social spokesperson, a member of the Health Committee and representatives of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Herbert Haupt has addressed a number of very important issues. Take the whole issue of health policy – health policy will have a very special importance over the next few months and years. The questions are as follows: How can you optimize within the health management? Is it really wise that there are different computer systems? What can one do to develop a kind of health card that ultimately means a lot to patients, for the insured? . I believe that there is an incredible amount of support for reform in this area, and I agree with Herbert Haupt that he is also discussing the necessary structural reforms, the necessary taboos, whether we are not going further with a courageous combination of social security institutions here than the former social ministers had just thought. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] After all, we have equated workers and employees with social security law. What reason, then, is there to keep the pension insurance systems separate from workers and employees today? – I think Herbert Haupt will have a rich field of activity. It is also true that, while the health insurance reform is taking shape, the health and social ministry of course has to exert the necessary pressure to ensure that the insured are not burdened beyond what is necessary. Another topic: For the first time, we have presented a real offensive for the disabled. We know that many issues need to be discussed and resolved in the field of disability work. We know that there are many thousand disabled people who do not have a job today. I trust Herbert Haupt that he will set new standards with the offensive programme of 1 billion schilling for disabled people in social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Last point: Herbert Haupt is of course also responsible for women's affairs. I have registered that some female Members wear ties today, and I think it is very good that one does not go here only after the sex: Anyone can wear a tie or a mesh, and it can also make any male or female policy professional. Being a man cannot be a cause of discrimination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This federal government will provide 17 billion schilling for labour market policy measures by 2006 at least, of which 50 percent, more than 8.5 billion Schilling, will be made available to women. Almost 2 billion schillings are intended for the promotion of women in non-traditional and forward-looking professions. I mean, this is a program that can be seen. Herbert Haupt will manage it together with our Minister Bartenstein. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But also allow me to take a position here not only on ressort conversion, but also to say a few words about the current case of data abuse. There have been serious accusations that have criminal consequences; I say this very clearly. I therefore expressly acknowledge that these accusations should be fully examined by the independent courts – not by a political justice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is also clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the presumption of innocence has to be applied to everyone, whether he is a politician, a journalist or a police officer. I also expressly refer here to the European Convention on Human Rights, which states in Article 6: "Every man is entitled to hear his case in a cheap manner and within a reasonable period of time, by an independent and impartial court based on law, which has to decide on" him. Paragraph 2: "Until the legal evidence of his guilt, he is suspected of being innocent for a criminal act." Ladies and gentlemen! How much more so is this only for people, against pre-examinations – by no means a charge; Previous surveys – which have been led in the way! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Investigation Committee!]] Therefore, yes to the investigation, no to a pre-condemnification. I would like to remind you of the following, ladies and gentlemen: In Austria, the Lasser articles have been abolished – properly abolished – but the question of the obligation to take account of the journalist is therefore all the more important. I refer in particular to Professor Ermacora and his "Handbuch on international law and the European Convention on Human Rights". [[Abg. Oillinger: The manual for the Federal Government!]] Give yourself a moment of examination whether the magazines that have appeared today reflect exactly this premise of innocence in the way they are presented! I think the sensitivity in dealing with the language, with image and sound is clear to everyone, but then this should apply here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you on behalf of this Federal Government: Dealing with the citizen, dealing with the data of the citizens is highly sensitive. We are aware of that. That is to say, dealing with files, dealing with police data from the computer, dealing with confidential Court of Auditors reports is very likely a matter, and I ask the House to ask itself the question: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] What's to be confidential? How can one really take into account the legitimate concern of public interest and individual trust protection? In my speech, I also raised this issue openly on the National Day and I repeat here: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I trust the independent Minister of Justice Dieter Böhmdorfer, who is not a party member, that he has no influence on the judicial authorities and has no instructions to examine them – because that must be of course, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And I trust the Austrian Minister of the Interior, Ernst Strasser, that he will leave the police and security authorities unimpeded on behalf of the Justice, but will then also draw the necessary consequences and allow the same reformer to come back there, as it has become natural in all other areas. I trust the Ernst Strasser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One last: In an interview with FORMAT, opposition leader Alfred Gusenbauer explained: It shows that the Federal Chancellor is entirely of the senses when he relates the political responsibility of former Minister of the Interior. – Ladies and gentlemen! So much for sensitivity and for dealing with the language. But that's your theme, not mine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that officials can ask questions without giving any reason at all, then there is enough reason here to ask how political responsibility has been felt in the past. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it is possible, Mr Gusenbauer, that police trade unions claim that surveys have been carried out under their number in the ECIS, this is an issue that needs to be clarified as soon as possible, Mr Gusenbauer. There is no one who demands this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it is true that, although the National Council has decided that the cartels need to be erased about mental diseases, it is alleged, according to media reports – I emphasize: According to media reports; I do not identify with it – that such data still exists, then it is very likely that this is a reason for review. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And, Mr Gusenbauer, if the ECIS system still contains pre-punities, even those who have already been destroyed, then this is, as I believe, a very good topic. And there is no one who asks such questions, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And if it is true that the former Minister of the Interior, Schlögl, has explained in an interview – I quote it; I cannot verify it – that from his term of office he is known to be a greater number of such incidents, of accusations, if this danger has been known since 1997, then it must be clarified: What happened? What political consequences have then been drawn? How to do this? – All of this first has to inform independent justice when it comes to criminal law, and the Minister of the Interior has to clarify when it comes to the consequences. - That's what we're talking about. [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[10:24]] Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2434	I declare, Mr. Dr. Pilz, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requests a Committee of Inquiry to investigate the responsibility of the Federal Minister of the Interior for the illegal disclosure of data from his department and organisational defects in the field of security authorities, which have led to years of unnotified personal data being passed on to unauthorized persons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer, in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the establishment of an investigative committee to clarify the allegations relating to the transmission of police data to third parties and the systematic involvement of members of the security equipment and the investigation of legal and political responsibilities relating to these matters. This is also the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda and the examination committee debate and vote already announced. Mr Gusenbauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2486	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, national elections took place in Austria, which caused some commentators to evaluate the last year. In a comment from a top journalist in the "Standard" the following is recorded – I quote –: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Sure, even earlier in politics, not every promise was made. But with the deception of voters, with whom he made himself the head of government in February 2000, he has opened an era of political misplay, as she has never passed through the Second Republic before, with delicate explanations to the first. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is described here is impressively confirmed: not only by the German Chancellor's speech today, but also by the political climate that was created in Austria – a political climate in which the Minister of Finance can unpunishedly claim that two thirds of the population are not affected by its burden budgets, although he is heavily burdened by more than 20 different tax measures precisely these two thirds! [[Abg. Haigermoser: "Unpunished"?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you mean, "unpunished"?]] In this climate, it is obvious that it is also possible that the Chancellor and the Minister of Finance are still firmly asserting that it will be saved, although the state has never spent as much money as today, further expenditure is planned in billions and we have the highest tax and tax rate in the history of the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this climate, individual government representatives still dare to take the word "justice" into their mouth, although the most affected victims of their policies are the socially weak, the unemployed and the accident pensioners. This is an insult to the people concerned, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's huge! Stop talking to them!]] It is also white cock, for example, when Mr. Klubobmann Khol defines his relationship to the truth as follows: "Truth is a daughter of the time." – This was translated by a leading journalist in the "Kurier" as follows for those who do not entirely agree with it: "What interests me tomorrow, what I said yesterday?" – This marks your relationship with the truth, Mr Khol! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The changes in the Ministry of Social Affairs do not take place because the previous Minister was completely overshadowed and unqualified. If that had been the reason, then it should have resigned months ago. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is happening here is obviously a distraction of what the FPÖ has so painfully experienced, namely the bill of voters for breaking all her true promises over the last eight months. But the new Social Minister is not an alternative here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The new Minister of Social Affairs has looked forward to negotiating this package of social security that he has co-negotiated the social policy of this Federal Government. That means that before he became a social minister, he took over responsibility for this social policy shatter. It is not about the exchange of faces, but about a turning point in social policy. That would be said, and not the exchange of faces! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But the FPÖ obviously does not manage to live to be halved by the voters at the last Styrian country elections as far as the votes are concerned. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And what has happened to you? Did you win?]] – Mr Westenthaler, I will come to you later, you will give enough interesting things in these days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: Today you're not good at it!]] But as the culmination of this blue-black experiment has now been added to the FPÖ Spitzelskandal, and this scandal has obviously opened the dusk of this federal government. [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] Let us stick to the facts, Mr Bundeskanzler, with the facts that you have not mentioned in your speech: There is obviously a party, namely the FPÖ, or individual representatives of the party who go here and pay executives so that the critics of the FPÖ are stifled. This is so right in the image of shamelessness and in a political understanding in which there are obviously no rules and no bans anymore, and this is what characterizes your party, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Instead of dedicating itself to the real political core of this scandal, namely that artists, journalists, intellectuals, up to Caritas, were obviously stifled and there is absolutely no awareness of injustice in this matter, it is now obviously tried to knit a conspiracy theory. In the words of Mr. Federal Chancellor, the words "FPÖ", "Alt-Parteiobmann Haider", "Kabas", "Kreißl" have not once fallen, and there has not been only the reference to a suspected injustice in this context. There were only attacks against the former meeting ministers: as a result of the fact that the FPÖ has clearly come into being. And this is a democratic scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no evil plot of any people in the media or here in Parliament. There is no dark power that has invented all of this. It is simply a matter of providing sufficient documentation to the public prosecutor, documents sufficient for the public prosecutor to be justified in initiating preliminary surveys against individual top-level politicians of the FPÖ. And the scandalous thing is that a party that has come into such a smell belongs to this Austrian federal government. This is a fact, Mr Bundeskanzler, which you have denied so far and which you have not dedicated yourself to. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And the so-called ultimate counter-attack announced last week by Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler will probably go into the history of the Austrian media as the largest weekend recorder. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what we'll see!]] Have you ever asked yourself the question: Why are it only FPÖ officials who are in doubt? Why is it the old partyman of the FPÖ, who is at the heart of the affair? Why are only representatives of the Freedom Party always accused? – Quite obviously: It is a blue affair, a blue scandal and, perhaps, a blue criminal. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this is really immense, that, in this context, the minister of justice, whom you call particularly independent, the Minister of Justice, who for years has been the legal sword of the FPÖ and its former party owner, Haider, and is now at the head of the judicial body, that this Minister of Justice has also come to the smell of being involved in these affairs by using illegally acquired files in processes. And now the prosecutor's office is to investigate and collect and then, obviously, to present the reports to the Minister of Justice in his own causa, which then lead to a further cause of justice. – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! There is no more blatant example of political incompatibility than if a minister of justice, who is himself interested, is at the head of this department! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We believe that this Minister of Justice can no longer lead the judicial body, and we therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! That would be very appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is the second major crisis in the Federal Government. At the first one, you could still talk about the outside enemy. This time, Federal Chancellor, you can't. This time you have to deal with your coalition partner. But you have so far limited yourself to the fact that on the National Day, which would have been a great opportunity to rise above the small-carrier and to say the really state-political essential, you have held an exclusively blue-black propaganda speech in which With no single word have you mentioned the chaining of the FPÖ in this matter, but, although you attach importance to the fact that the presumption of innocence applies, only earlier ministers of the Interior have spoken. With no word have you mentioned the suspected perpetrators! This is a model example of the fact that you have absolutely no awareness of injustice and that the political priorities are completely misplaced. And that is not a good way in a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you are not the viewer on this question, you are not the breakfast director, in all your experience with breakfast matters, you are as Federal Chancellor responsible for the whole of the Federal Government. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of SPÖ]] And if there is a case that shakes the fundamental festivals that shake the trust of the Austrians into justice, including in parts of the executive, then it is appropriate for a German chancellor to raise the state awareness and the fundamental right awareness about the coalition fidelity. And you have left that to this day, even in today's speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] During your entire speech, everyone has asked themselves – with all that you want to clarify: all the political contexts that are to be clarified, who was responsible for what – why you did not complete your presentations with the comment: Yes, a parliamentary committee of inquiry can bring light into the dark! – You have failed to reach this conclusion. But it would have been the logical consequence of your questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The real doubling of this government's attitude is that it is always pretended to be interested in information. Mr Alt Partyobmann, too, said that he recommended that his group vote in favour of a committee of inquiry. – 24 hours later, however, Mr Westenthaler informed us that an investigation committee was not necessary now, and it was all agreed with Haider. Three days later, his old partyman says again: Investigation Committee? No problem! – And today the Federal Chancellor is here and lists a number of questions to be resolved. And what is the consequence? The two coalition parties will again vote in favour of a committee of inquiry because they are not interested in the Enlightenment and they obviously have something to hide, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They do not serve Austria with this behavior, they do not even serve your small party political interests, they do harm the fundamental right consciousness, they damage the reputation of essential state bodies, and you contribute to the fact that many citizens in this country are no longer safe and are wondering: Are we being stifled? From whom? With what order? Where do the information end, and what will Westenthaler, Haider and Stadler make out of it on occasion? This, ladies and gentlemen, creates a climate that is inappropriate and unacceptable for a developed Western democracy. And the consequences to be drawn from it would be at least a consistent clarification by the Minister of the Interior, a committee of inquiry of Parliament and the failure of confidence towards the Minister of Justice, which is obviously very deep inside.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2782	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Westenthaler has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e2807	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Gusenbauer has started his remarks – and this is already something very interesting in this context, because he considers it to be criminal cases – that he has complained that a Federal Minister of the Republic of Austria can say his opinion unpunished. Mr Gusenbauer! What punishment would you like if a minister did not say the opinion you would like? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. Often you expose your language, and today you have been exposed again. We strongly reject such a Jargon, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Let's talk about something else! Top coward!]] - You won't punish a minister here. On the contrary! You're talking about crisis, state crisis, you're talking about a crisis of the parties, a crisis of Parliament. – In reality, there is only one crisis, one crisis, and this crisis is in your own home. This crisis is in your party. The vulture circles around the house in Löwelstraße: 350 million schilling debts you have from the SPÖ in the party case! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have a mistrust in your own base against your chairman. You have election debacles on the running band, most recently in the Styria, where Mr. Schachner-Blazizek wanted to show the government the "red card", but the voters have been so saddened that you can't even rock with it, because the voters have rejected the policy you are making there! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Yes, yes, let's talk about something else!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Hannes Androsch is right when he says – I quote literally –: "The state of the SPÖ is pathetic." And Johann Hatzl, SP club chief in Vienna, says: We've become a loser's party! - I could quote a lot of things here. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Painful!]] For example, in the "standard" you so highly valued was on 19th. August 2000 The following – I quote – was written: "In summary: SP-chef Gusenbauer is an ultra-left party apparatusist who speaks by the population in the language of the 60s revolutionaries!" - Quote. Congratulations! Today again, no one really understood you, Mr Gusenbauer. Another topic is missing, again! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This government has actually made the turn: the turn away from your debt mountain – 2 200 billion schilling debts you have left behind – the turn away from your tax policy, the turn away from your social redistribution policy from top to bottom, the turn away from the reduction of the karenz money, the reduction of the care money, the removal of the care bag money. [[Abg. Edellinger: Painful!]] All your non-social measures have abolished this government, that is no longer coming. That's the turn! That is the performance of this government: a socially just, a good policy, one that we can undoubtedly go along with. Mr Gusenbauer, you cannot distract from this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you quote, I also quote an economic journalist, Roland Barazon, in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" of 24. September. It says: The practice so far, as far as possible to congratulate everyone in social policy, is not only absurd, it also has highly unsocial consequences. The distribution of funds to all means that the actual needy are not sufficiently supported. – And he says that this government also belongs to applause in social policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am also of this opinion, and I am therefore pleased that we now have with the new Social Minister an appointed social expert who is undisputed across all sides of the party as far as his expertise and his political expertise and also his political statements in social policy are concerned. He has so far been one of the most prominent social politicians in this House and also one who has always been careful to ensure that social justice is effective especially for small people. And that is why he has already told us that he is committed to a social security reform, and that is why he has also said that he will work to ensure that seasonal workers will not be wronged in connection with unemployment benefit. I say that the main thing is with the guarantee that a modern, efficient administration in social policy will result in a higher quality of life in Austria and also in a socially just policy. [[Abg. Edler: Insurance!]] And for that, dear Herbert Haupt, dear new minister, I wish you a happy hand and good luck in your new activity! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bures: Now say something to the Minister of Women!]] A sentence, too, because there is much doubt about the quality of a man in terms of women's policy. I also have full confidence in Herbert Haupt, and I say quite clearly to you: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Bures: I think so!]] There is a very successful woman head of state in Austria. I am convinced that in Austria we will have a very successful Mr. Women's Minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But now on the subject that you have raised here. You're talking about state crisis, you're talking about scandal. - No, it's not a state crisis, it's really a scandal. You have to look at that in history. This is not a state crisis, but it is a scandal, namely, the question of data abuse, which has grown in the swamp of the 30-year rule of socialist interior ministers. This must be said to the public: That's your scandal and no one else's scandal that's true! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it is almost amusing: Mr Gusenbauer suddenly becomes involved in the role of sacrifice. [[Abg. Edellinger: Painful!]] Last week, Mr. Gusenbauer has been very out of print by one of these dubious magazines: Gusenbauer was sharpened!, was written in the "profile". He was asked. Gusenbauer, too, victims of illegal queries!, has been written. However, today – very small in a small box – it had to be admitted that it was a embarrassing Fauxpas. [[Abg. Bures: You are embarrassing!]] What happened? – No one has illegally asked Mr Gusenbauer. There is a single question about Mr Gusenbauer, and that was a school colleague from him who wanted to know whether Mr Gusenbauer was actually as old as he looked out. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] He wanted to know the date of birth and therefore asked a police officer to make this request. That was the result – otherwise there was nothing. Similar to Mrs. Ederer from Vienna. Very large was written in this dubious magazine "NEWS", which was never known for accuracy, with a photo of her: Mrs. Ederer was asked! Scandal! Another prominent out. [[Abg. Edlinger: Why does he know? Why do you know that?]] – What happened? There has been a question in the ECIS system because Mrs Ederer has made a new passport. To be read in today's edition of "FORMAT", on page 40. "Neither other SPÖ politicians are victims," writes FORMAT. "The confusion of legal and illegal surveys was therefore due to the fact that Straster's officials had checked with 500 celebrities whether their data had been illegally accessed." And now it's coming! –: "But the final results are not yet available." - Quote. There are no results at all. There's no evidence of accusations at all. [[Abg. Edlinger: The Procuratorate Determines!]] This is your pattern, but we strongly reject how you act here, even in this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you think of the prosecution?]] But it's going on. The diffamation machine is on high-speed. The defamation and diffamation methods of the left are Legion. They are divided into three areas: One starts with the false claim. First, the untruth is put into the world. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: What do you think of the prosecution? Prosecution!]] Example: ==References====External links== September. So it has been almost two months since Mr. Kostelka introduced himself to the Minister of Justice in a press conference – you have to imagine that! – that telephone calls would be recorded in the Ministry of Justice if certain keywords were to fall. Mr. Kostelka made such an immense accusation of a criminal offence on 18 June. It's on the table in September. To this day there is no Jota of evidence, until today there is no evidence that is true, but no excuse to this day! Please enjoy, Mr Kostelka, for this inconceivable claim that you have put on the table. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But no complaint either!]] But that's how it goes: Kostelka and Kuntzl go out here and claim that the clubman of the liberals is in the center of the top cowardry, he is the engineer of the craftsmanship. – To this day, there is not a Jota proof, not a millimeter – everything has collapsed in itself. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Procuratorate, Mr. Westenthaler!]] Then it is claimed that there would be an ORF database. Now the data from the ORF computer is being extracted from the evil politicians and are distributed there via secret channels in the computer. – That’s all not true! The general intern demented this. That's all wrong, it's all false. This is your method: They make false claims, can't prove them – and then keep silent about it without apologizing! It's bad! I would also like to say this quite openly to you, Mr Kostelka and Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The second phase of this diffamation machine on the left after the false claim is then the criminalization: Once again, without any evidence, there is no crime. What has not been accused of Jörg Haider – for years, with the support of your party magazines! He'd be home to illegal refugees. - Wrong, don't! He'd be trapped in a cocaine affair. – This has never been demonstrated, is wrong and has already been denied by court! He'd have met a Nazi pistolero. – Everything wrong, not true! He would have taken away a Prater penthouse from a family illegally. – Your accusations, all collapsed! He would have written a letter to terrorist-Nazis. - It's all right! His tax record was pulled through the media eight times, it was said that he had committed tax evasion. – Everything is not true, everything has been disproved! This went down to the accusation of the Gagenritter, up to the allegation – in connection with "Free living" – that he would have obtained a private apartment illegally, he was guilty of the FPÖ-Klubbau, he would have a salary fee and so on. All these accusations have dissolved in air, and I guarantee you – the bet is valid! – even the current accusation will disintegrate in air, and you will be quite paralysed. I'm telling you that quite openly. That will be the outcome of the procedures. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In fact, what is happening here is nothing but a journalistic revenge campaign of so many magazines. There, former bodyguards of Jörg Haider are called by journalists – I have the evidence for this, and I will hand it over to the prosecutor today – who offer them a sum of money for saying against Jörg Haider that they are making a statement against Jörg Haider. If they do, they get money from this magazine. This is also pending at the Public Prosecutor's Office today. We will not allow such methods to be invaded. What is produced by these magazines with your support, under your leadership, is nothing but pure hatred against successful politicians who are, in fact, watching you with envy. That's really your motivation behind it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The third point after the false claim and after the criminalization is then personal accompaniment. That's where politicians are just put. Mr. One of them says: I'm worried about the Federal Chancellor's memory. Mr Gusenbauer said: The bowl's full of senses. Jörg Haider is depicted in a magazine as if he were going through. This is your method: Finally, if you don't have anything at all, go into human contempt. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] First, false claims that you launch through your lubricating pages, then criminalize, and if nothing goes any more, go here and explain people, politicians, down from the Federal Chancellor, for mentally inferior. This is a completely messy, dirty squabble policy from which young people and people in this country will turn away. I'll tell you. That's actually the result. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] No evidence is on the table, no evidence! But we sent an advertisement to the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna on Friday, where we probably put evidence on the table, such as a book by the Director-General for Public Security Michael Sika. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is a decent pipe-creper!]] I quote literally from this book: "I was," Sika says, "to be carried, the STAPO plan, to construct a hazard to Haider in order to have a pretext, to bring policemen as 'protection' to his nearer surroundings. I mentioned this carefully in a conversation with the Minister" – in parentheses: Lösnak –, "but no longer heard of it later. However, in mid-January 1994 such a alleged danger situation around Haider became known. At the time, it was about German left-wing extremists' plans against the politician. ... In this case too, it was munked that the state police had ‘tucked’ the notice. Whether it's right, stay put," says Sika. "In any case, at this time a STAPO official succeeded in bringing at least to the vicinity of the bodyguards. And it is quite regular – bearing in mind the alleged risk situation." - Quote. A terrorist threat was created against Jörg Haider and his family, so that the socialist Nomenklatura of the Ministry of the Interior can send officials to the incarnation of Jörg Haider. This is the real scandal, and it will – I promise you! – the subject of preliminary surveys and preliminary investigations are also the subject of the prosecutor's office. That's your causa! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Why do you know that?]] Personal diffamation, criminalization, contempt for misguided politicians – but nothing will be left this time either. Even this time you will not be able to construct an affair here. Nothing will be left of the accusations of the magazines, which are in the competition for the personal media slaughter of Jörg Haider and the FPÖ. Who are these "death writers" of the FPÖ? – A editor-in-chief of a magazine, Mr Rainer, who no longer settles on tables where the wife is vice-cancer, as he has said, or a chief editor of the magazine "NEWS", Fellner, who threatens, in a letter from the vice-cancer, to lead the counter-attack journalistically and to put us in a tighter position. This is the motivation, and every sincere journalist in this country who follows it and takes his professional ethos seriously, should actually turn away from this disgusting het, which is being operated there. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm telling you once again, and I've said this a lot: You do not have the right here – at the stage where we are now, where you yourself have butter on your head and thus go into the sun every day – you do not have the right, decent, democratically elected politicians, whether in Parliament, in the country days, in the governments, so to speak, as you always do. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: My rights are defined by the law – and not by Mr. Westenthaler!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Make an investigation committee!]] They do not have the right to agree to people, just because they are other political convictions, the right to live, namely the right of political life. This applies to every representative here in the house vice versa. But this also applies to every representative in the countryside. [[Abg. Parnigoni: For you in particular, all that you say is that!]] This applies to members of the government, and this is also true – remember that in your formulations with which you want to agree with people's political life-righteousness! – for the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria and also for the head of the state of Carinthia, Jörg Haider.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3262	Ladies and gentlemen! As can be expected in this heated debate, the choice of words is quite difficult and sometimes at the limits of the allowable. On a given occasion I therefore ask the following speakers to be particularly careful in their choice of words! The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3288	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comply with the President's request and believe that, according to the statements made by Mr Westenthaler, this was a very useful and productive indication. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Thank you, Minister of Women! The Ministry of Women has been abolished. That was one of the first acts of this federal government that you now belong to. The next step was the abolition of the Minister of Women herself. It has been replaced by a technical one, I suppose, quite dissatisfying colleagues, whom I have also learned to appreciate personally in many committees. But whether it is the right signal to make Mr Spittal's veterinarian in the Drau a dubious administrator of the women's policy in this Federal Government, I doubt at least personally and on behalf of my group. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Mag. Head! You still owe the women several answers – at least yesterday in the "press hour" you have remained guilty of several answers: After the Grasser package, how should it continue with the accident pensioners, with the unemployed women, with the seasonal workers and with the students who have been pushed to the brink of poverty by this federal government, which you now belong to? Find it, Mr Mag. Mainly, first clear answers to the fact that the so-called tax package, which is, in part, really a social penalty package, meets women who are in training alone responsible for children who switch from one job to another, because in the labour market there is less and less room for them who have retired as accident victims or who are rightly concerned as pensioners about how things continue! Mr Mag. Head! On behalf of my group, I expect clear answers to these questions, which are clear answers which are clearly different from those of your Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You will not divide us! Pisces!]] Mr Mag. Head! In other respects, you have also taken over a sensitive place: They are the head of the supervisory authority of one of the most sensitive data areas in the Republic, namely the social security data. I'm really wondering: What to Remember In the field of social security data, what does the Minister of Defence intend to do in the future in the field of all federal data? – The Minister of Defence is entitled, under the two new State law, to have all personal sensitive data collected by the municipalities about the chambers, hospitals, social security institutions, financial offices without any justification on any person in that Republic. , and these are two ministers – the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Defence – who do not find anything when the friends of their party organize illegal invasions into precisely these data stocks. [[Abg. Murauer: "Without justification" – that's not true!]] [[Further opposition to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why, Minister of Social Affairs, this is what it is all about, Minister of Defence. How do you secure this most sensitive data of this Republic from your party friends, who are now and here issued in the plenary session of the National Council by the Federal Chancellor? Ladies and gentlemen! The people who worry about what happens to their sensitive data do not need persils, but need security that the members of the free circles do not access these most private and personal data; at least we do not have this security today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are discussing a change of government. Of course, a government transformation has long been overdue, it's only one of the most peculiar I've experienced so far. Federal Chancellor! You said: We had an excellent Social Minister, she moved violently, much more than her predecessors. Not to have said so However, it is: Because she has worked so well for this republic and for the people in this Republic, we – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic, the Vice-Cancellor, the head of state, the clubman, the Second Clubman – have each taken hold on one side of the chair and carried it out together. – Probably that's even true. If you are successful in this government, you take a high risk, and with regard to the investigation of the top coward, the Minister of the Interior can probably best report what it means to allow despite the influence of federal chancellors and coalition partners that his ministry works successfully. But Mrs. Sickl did have something to add, and you couldn't or didn't say it: The Minister for Social Affairs has failed, has failed politically and objectively. You couldn't tell what was going to change. They have posed a dangerous threat: Everything will go as far as under Sickl. – Please take this back! Please Promise You have this house and all the people concerned in the Republic of Austria: No, it's going to be quite different, no, we're gonna stop the sickl policy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Punishment and ridicule are all you have to offer!]] But this is not the government reform that would be necessary. I quote from the White Report that this Republic of Austria and its Federal Government have been handed over. Quote: "One of the most problematic features of leading FPÖ members is attempts to silence political opponents." This is said by the "three wise men", whose report you, Mr Bundeskanzler, personally welcomed and appreciated. The "three wise men" continue and say there is a single problem minister: not the Social Minister, not the Minister of Defence, not the Minister of the Interior – a single one: Minister of Justice Dr. Böhmdorfer. This is the conclusion of the White Report. They have made the following public commitment: We will implement the report by the "three wise men" and signal Europe and the European Union that we are taking this report seriously, including his criticism. – The Minister of Justice is still sitting on the government bank and today he has been issued by the Federal Chancellor again. I wonder, What is the basis of this Persil license? – We have discussed an illegal liberal summit, will continue to discuss it, but in the following respect, Federal Chancellor, you have the right to: As far as criminal law is concerned, the courts and police authorities are on the train, and I do not have the slightest doubt that they are taking their task very seriously. But in the meantime we also know the beneficiaries and The profiter of the liberal Spittelring, and one of the most important beneficiaries, was Dr. Böhmdorfer, then a liberal party lawyer. If the Freedom Party was about reputation - and that was its means of political debate - then lawyer Dr. Böhmdorfer was the judicial executive of this policy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] He has filed a written version published in the "Falter" and has used, and this has to be proved, illegal ECIS surveys for this booklet and at least seven illegally acquired state police files. But now Dr. Böhmdorfer says: The photos of the applicant that you wanted to finish – your clients have been accused – the photos – you said on TV – would be passport photos that you would have believed. [[towards the Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer]] Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer! Does that look like passport photos? [[The speaker keeps magnification copies of photographs up to the height on which the eyes of the imagers were fitted with black cross-bars.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I ask you: What is the new liberal passport under Dr. Böhmdorfer? Does this look like an applicant for a new passport is first arrested, then photographed frontally and photographed by the side, treated for recognition, then set on a free foot and then with the signature "Dr. Böhmdorfer" or "Dr. Haider" – if it just likes – gets a passport? I am glad that you, as Minister of Justice, are at least not responsible for passports. It is bad enough that you are responsible for the justice of this Republic! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I ask you something more: The prosecutor's indictment. We don't know if Jörg Haider will switch from the government bank to the indictment bank, but the judicial preliminary surveys are at least one step in this direction. The prosecutor finds out the police authorities are investigating, house searches are carried out – and what is your answer in the "Mindtagsjournal"? They say: "Jörg Haider is exalted over every suspicion." "Jörg Haider is above all suspicions," he says, not his party attorney, but that says the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Austria and thus signals to the investigating prosecutor: Dear prosecutor, I, as your authorising Minister of Justice, tell you what I think about your preliminary surveys, namely nothing. The man's innocent, he's a friend of mine, I'm gonna let you find out, but I know what's coming out! That, Dr. Böhmdorfer, is the political friendly economy at the head of the department! And that's probably the worst thing you can say about a Minister of Justice. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One last: In an attempt to justify your then behavior – namely the exploitation of illegally acquired files – you have done something that few lawyers and later judicial ministers have done: You have taxed your clients and said: I got this material from Haider and Stadler. – They are suing their own clients for the illegal procurement of police material and files. Do you know what that means? – That means accusing one’s clients on the one hand – and on the other hand explaining that they are completely innocent. That is the reason, Dr. Böhmdorfer, why not only we Greens, not only social democrats, but leading representatives of independent justice today say that it is possible, on the one hand, that there will be criminal proceedings against you in the near future, but on the other hand, you should at least get ahead of them. Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer! It is not justice that is at issue, it is not the prosecutors, the judges and judges who are in doubt, but the only ones who stand alone as the Federal Minister for Justice! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Because it is pointless to ask you to withdraw, because you and your party would never allow it, and because you have long placed your personal and party interests over the interests of justice and the rule of law, it is with Mr. Chancellor Dr. Schüssel to take this necessary step. I wonder, Dr. Shell: Why are you unable to reform this government? Why are you unable to say: Yes, we finally need a truly independent and uncomplicated and unwarranted Justice Minister, yes, we need someone at the head of justice who enjoys the trust of all people, yes, we must ensure that not the entire justice system There's no doubt, yes, I'm remodeling the government and making it possible to re-start at the top of the department!Unknown term type: "%s".? I wonder why you can't do that because I don't know if you want it. Obviously, you have been chained to a much stronger degree to the Freedom Party and its Old Partyman, than we have been able or wanted to do so until now. Sometimes I have the impression that you have not only entered the black Porsche, but also managed to attach you to the old partyman somewhere on the steering wheel or on the seat. You can no longer get out, Federal Chancellor, because you – this is my guess – have no other option. Nobody else wants to cool with you. With social democracy, you have broken so convincingly personally that there is apparently no longer this option. We are going – also to our luck! – Couldn't be calculated anyway. So it's just the FPÖ. But there is much more than the top coward! What do you say about the fact that free politicians are already breaking the Government Convention and saying: We are making the Easter enlargement the subject of a popular survey or referendum!Unknown term type: "%s".? Yes, your promises to Europe no longer apply? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] If coalition is broken, is the government agreement suddenly a cavalier's offence? Are you ready to put the Easter enlargement at risk, just so that you can continue to be Federal Chancellor of Haider's Grace? Are you willing to risk all of this and put it at risk?- Oh, my God! I tell you, Dr. Schüssel: It would be time for you to note that the Freedom Party is not in trouble, but at the brink of a political bankruptcy, because it has abandoned the "small people" – the so-called little people – with their attacks on social security and thus has broken its first important promise, which reads: [[Abg. Haller: Dreamer!]] We're here for you! The second promise was: We're fighting power abuse! – That too is broken! Dr. Schüssel! You will have to decide whether you will become the bankruptcy administrator of the Freedom Party – or seriously try to change this course as the Federal Chancellor of the Republic! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3483	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3505	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Gusenbauer, today, in this debate, it is not about the misuse of protected data. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Federal Chancellor has started with this!]] We are now discussing what we want to change in economic and social policy, and I am of the opinion – and I regret it – that you, Dr. Gusenbauer, had nothing to say about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Did you notice that the Federal Chancellor introduced this topic?]] They have not dealt in any way with the programme of the new Minister for Social Affairs. You have – I have listened carefully to you, Dr. Gusenbauer – talked about the past, but not about the future. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Did you also listen to the Federal Chancellor?]] But today, Dr. Gusenbauer, we are dealing with the future of social policy in Austria. I would have expected a statement on your part. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But we must note that you can't say anything about this or don't want to say anything. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Did you listen to the Federal Chancellor?]] I will then come to another important point you mentioned. Dr. Pilz! What you said here is incredible and unheard of! – Neither the Minister of Social Affairs nor the Minister of Defense have access to the individual data of social security. You need to know that there is no access to individual social security data for one or the other ministry, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That's not true!]] That's not true what you said, Dr. Pilz, and that's unheard of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is no computer in the ministries that would allow this access. If I don't think you have a white vest, I have to say that what you said here hardens the suspicion that you don't have a white vest in this whole thing. I do not want to wish you what you have wished for other politicians, but you should go inside and not spread falsehoods and insure people in the public, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The government work of the past nine months, Dr. Gusenbauer, has been positively assessed by the Austrian population. Surveys show this very clearly: The vast majority agree with the reduction of the debt that this Austrian Federal Government has started, even wishing, ladies and gentlemen. We stand by this and we welcome the fact that the budget deficit will be more than halved in the coming year and that we will have a zero deficit in two years – that is, no new debt! – in Austria, so that the Austrian youth, the Austrian population, is not burdened with new debts by the state. This is a very important progress! Dr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You have shaped an important sentence that I would like to underline. You said: We need a turn in Austria! – Yes, we needed a turn, and this turn in economic and social policy took place in February of this year. She's already entered, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: The turn back!]] There has been a fundamental change in the safeguarding of pensions. Do you remember what has been done so far in the framework of pension reforms? Almost all pension reforms have resulted in a reduction in pensions for new applications. They have introduced deductions for pensions. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You were in the government!]] . We were there, but the proposals on the discounts came from you. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Feurstein, the sleeper! I was asleep for 14 years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We now have a pension reform without deductions, without any new reductions in the pension allowance. For those who enter the pension, the previous supplements apply, but there are no new supplements, and you must also take note of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: For 14 years you are already responsible!]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: We didn't have a single government, did we?]] – Yes, you have long led a single government, and there has been an increase in pension contributions, and you have been responsible only when various deteriorations – and you know that very well – have been made. Ladies and gentlemen! I now quote from the opinion of the Committee on Pensions, which noted a week ago: For the years up to 2005, a significant reduction in the rate of growth is expected at all pensions. It further states that the share of federal funds will fall, and that means that pension funding has become safer through the 2000 pension reform. Pension financing has become safer, to an extent that you could not have imagined, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. More charming: We have nothing more, but we have that for sure!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the standard of living for 2 million Austrians is still secure, and that is crucial! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The employment situation has been greatly improved. I do not want to praise the government for this because the merit of improving the labour market situation comes from those who work in our economic life: Employers, employees, those who work. They have taken advantage of the opportunities, to an extent that has not always been the case in previous years. The unemployment rate has reached a low level, which has already been mentioned. If today a young person says he needs a job, then we can't offer him a "desirable place", but we can say to him: Yes, there's an employment, you can work! And that is crucial, ladies and gentlemen: that young people can be told that they do not have to stay unemployed but have the chance to work. The situation has improved significantly in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, it is not pleasant for a social minister – as it has been the case in recent months – to have to contribute to the reduction of debt, especially in order to consolidate the budget deficit. But with a volume of 600 billion schillings we spend for pensions, for care, for unemployment payments, for health and accident insurance, for family support, there is also the need to check where there can be some change in the field of social policy. [[Abg. Bures: With the poorest!]] . I'll come to your argument that it would hit the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen! Social security is an issue that we need to discuss. We do not get past this issue, and I am glad that earlier Social Ministers have never closed their doors on this issue, but you of the SPÖ are currently closing down on this subject in principle. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You were in the government for 14 years!]] What's happening? – I would like to give you two examples. First example: Unemployment benefit. The unemployment benefit for persons with less than 8 300 s of unemployment benefit – those are persons who have earned around 10 000 s and less in employment – will be increased, ladies and gentlemen. But you say you're not doing anything for the poorest. True is: Unemployment benefit for low-income persons is increased. This is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, we say that where very high unemployment benefits are paid, 13 000 S, 14 000 S for single people, for example, we can reduce a little. But with the poorest, we increase unemployment benefit; we turn it over from those who have a very high unemployment benefit, who have more unemployment benefit than some woman, who is the sole earner and sole owner, to the poorest. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a fair measure. This is an essential change! Second example: We are of the opinion that we need to change something for seasonal workers. Minister Hesoun has already raised this issue, but he has not succeeded in bringing about a change. – I am convinced that the new Minister for Social Affairs will succeed in resolving this issue and achieving that we will also receive a fairer form of unemployment insurance for seasonal workers. That is what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen. The divorced Social Minister has not been dealt with very carefully by you; this has to be said once. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] [[Abg. Ritsmer: From their own party!]] They have not treated them very well. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: She was sacrificed by her own party!]] They faced her the first day she introduced herself here with a urgent request. You bombarded them, if I remember correctly, with 70 to 80 requests. It certainly has not been able to complete everything it has done, but I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: We are obliged to thank Mrs. Sickl, and we thank her for starting this turn in a particular area of social policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that, in a few months, the work of the Minister for Social Affairs will be assessed differently from what has been done by the media in recent weeks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Wittmann.]] – Yes, we have started the turn, Dr. Wittmann, together with the Minister of Social Affairs, and we are proud that we have succeeded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the new There is no doubt that a number of important tasks await social ministers, such as health policy, which has already been mentioned. In the field of health policy, we undoubtedly have to make important decisions which must also lead to a turnaround, so that, like the pension system, there must be no danger that we will face the two-class medicine as it is already practised in other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We agree that health insurance in all areas – including yours in Carinthia, ladies and gentlemen – will be rehabilitated. I would also like to say to you, and I now call two persons from the main association of social security funds, which must be taken into account: President Sallmutter and Director-General Dr Probst. These two gentlemen must cooperate constructively with the Minister for Social Affairs in order to bring about, in the field of health and health insurance, the rehabilitation that is necessary and urgently needed, ladies and gentlemen. We cannot release these two gentlemen from duty. You must cooperate constructively. That's what we expect from them! The concerns of the disabled are an issue which our Social Minister has already committed himself to in particular in the past. He has repeatedly stood up for the disabled. I am convinced that solutions will be found and that these "badeers" billions, which the Federal Government provides for disability policy, will be useful to ensure that disabled people who want to work also have the opportunity to work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The new Minister of Social Affairs is not an unknown one. He knows what he wants and has said this clearly in the last few days. We stand by the statements he made. In his speeches here in the National Council, he has always proved – even Dr. Pilz admittedly – that he has a strong conscience for social interests and for the socially weak. He will implement this social conscience, ladies and gentlemen. That's how we value power. Herbert Haupt as a new Social Minister and wish him good luck in carrying out his projects!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3854	Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. Please note, Mr Deputies, § 58 GOG and begin with the replay of the claim you wish to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3879	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Feurstein, explained that the Federal Minister for Defence has no access to sensitive personal data, especially in the field of social security. [[Abg. Böhacker: He didn't say that!]] – That’s not fair! I quote § 22 of the Military Power Act adopted by you at the beginning of July, paragraph 2: "Military bodies and departments may request from the bodies of the local authorities and the other bodies of public law, as well as from the foundations, institutions and funds operated by those bodies, those institutions and departments which need them as essential conditions for carrying out the tasks of intelligence or defence." - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: You claimed direct access!]] The requested body is obliged to provide information. I asked the Federal Minister for State Defence at the committee meeting on this subject: Are these communities, financial offices, social security agencies, hospitals, foundations, all ministries, social offices, youth offices and the Chambers of Workers and the Federal Chambers of Commerce? – The Federal Minister for Defence has declared: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! This is not an actual correction!]] That's exactly what it's all about. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a debate!]] Mr Feurstein! I trust, although I am against the content, the text of the law and the information of the Federal Minister for Defence. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3958	Mr Feurstein spoke in response. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e3991	Dr. Pilz! You spoke to me personally. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: No!]] - You spoke to me personally. I am personally concerned because you claimed that I would have said something wrong here, something false. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is not a personal response!]] It's been hard on me. I notice: There is no direct access! I said that! There is no direct access to social security data from the sides of a ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4060	Deputies! You have been reported to speak in response!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4090	That's right, and I'll stay there.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4120	Mr Magistrate, speaking on an actual amendment, has spoken. Maier. Please, § 58 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4144	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker claimed that the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Ministry of State Defense did not have access to social security data. [[Call the liberals:Directions!]] – That is not right, ladies and gentlemen. That's just wrong! Rather, it is true that in Austria several thousand people have access to over 90 million data on social security. Rather, it is true that, on the basis of a contract signed by the main association with the BMI, individual officials have direct access to social security data in the area of organised crime or wherever. This, ladies and gentlemen, was confirmed at the session of the Data Protection Council. Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4180	I announce that I will put further actual corrections to the end of the debate. As the next speaker, Mr Mag, the Federal Minister, spoke. Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4204	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Not quite a week ago, namely on Tuesday last week, I was praised by the President of the Federal Government as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations. I see this so clearly because in the last days and also in the announcements of public broadcasting today in the early morning and the morning my office was presented in such a way as to say that I am only the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Women's Affairs. In fact, according to the Federal Ministry Act, I am Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations. [[The women's representatives of the SPÖ keep records with the title "Black-blue = all power to men" and "A woman's minister is a woman's minister".]] The issues of women in the Federal Ministry for Social Affairs and Generations are, of course, important concerns of my ministry for me as for my predecessor and for all the predecessors who have worked in the Ministry of Women. Dear women here at the High House! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! We should find the basic consensus that in our Republic, in our country, social policy and security policy are the basic foundations that the future of Austrians of all generations is developing well and positively. For me, therefore, social policy is the most important foundation of my ministry, because only a healthy social policy that takes into account all the interests of the people, starting from the infant to the grandpa and from the student to the grandma, takes into account the social needs of these people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Those who have studied the past of our First Republic and our Second Republic will have found that if social peace was in danger, first the women of this country were the needy. Therefore, for me and for this Federal Government, the foundation is a balanced social policy. In the future, women will have the same position in this country and thus more right to participate in our society. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been a member of this National Council for more than a decade, and I therefore know the symbolic power of a women's minister for women in Austria and of her efforts towards equal treatment and equality in our society. But I am also aware that over the last decades women's policy has been able to achieve something that has always been the most important to me: improving women's incomes, harmonising women's incomes to men's incomes and improving the situation of women in retirement. [[Abg. Bures: With you there is a back to the sixties!]] That's the fact. We should perhaps draw two lessons from it: Women will only be fully integrated into society in this country and can implement their two ways, career planning without partnership or career planning within the family, if they also have the necessary financial resources. Only then will they be able to fully implement and determine life planning for themselves and for their families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Even though in these hours the debate about the social sector and the succession of Mrs. Elisabeth Sickl has focused on two points by my person, namely, on the one hand, on women's policy and, on the other, on data protection policy in Austria, I am fully aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the Ministry of Social Affairs is a ministry which is required in both interests. The problem of data protection in Austria, which has now been in the public debate since the so-called "premise", is also worrying for me as a Social Minister. I am just as interested as all members of this Federal Government in the fact that what is currently being discussed in the Austrian public is being fully, carefully and legally reviewed. The consequences of this review for all the regions of the Federal Government are undisputed within this Federal Government, and they will be taken into account. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You all who have met me in Parliament over the past 14 years have also shown me quite well in your answers to my order that I have always stood up for the rule of law and fairness. This my attitude will not change in my new position either. [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, as Minister for Social Affairs and Family Affairs, I am allowed to bring a new facet to the current debate on the efforts of the Republic of Austria and its federal institutions to the debate on data protection. It is also worrying for me, as a family minister, in what form the debate is currently under way.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4269	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry! After six minutes, may I ask the ladies of the Socialist Group to remove their plates. – The Minister is speaking!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4293	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I can therefore continue. As a family minister, it is particularly worrying for me how and in what form the debates in Austria are currently being held. All of us who stand in politics know that when we enter politics, we have taken a path that makes us and our person public. I have drawn the consequences for myself by making myself aware of the HCV disease since 1991 and having been known since 1997 and never suppressed its report. Ladies and gentlemen! But in the current discussion about the so-called data clause, it is obvious that both the media and politics forget that all those who are in the public have families. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a member of this Federal Government, who is responsible for the questions of the families, it is also unbearable for me to observe that people, for overeager or other reasons, also practice prominent politicians, such as the head of state of Carinthia, for example. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Far reverse!]] Mr. Dr. Haider, like everyone else and also the two ministers of the Social Democratic Interior, mentioned by Mr Gusenbauer in his speech, have the right to presumption of innocence. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How did he suit the families!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As long as the right of innocence applies to Dr. Haider – I have no doubt that it is right for him – his family also has to get the protection of the institutions of that Republic for so long. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it would have been worrying if no preliminary investigations and preliminary surveys had been initiated after the publication of the two books by Kleindienst and Sika in Austria. It would have been worrying for me if one had been transferred to the agenda after the publication of these two books. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the Federal Minister and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian National Council, with whom I have been able for 14 years to have some hard discussions, we never forget that the instruments of the rule of law ultimately serve to give to all of us in Austria – the population, but also the citizens who have decided to enter politics – the protection of the rule of law, security and thus the validity of the presumption of innocence. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are you Minister of the Interior?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] Mr Pilz! You know as well as I do – many other Members who at the time belonged to the "Noricum" study committee know – that the parallelity of research committees and surveys is not appropriate in order to accelerate important and necessary investigations in the interest of this state – data security in this state should be our concern to all of us – on the contrary: They are extended, delayed and widened. I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that a number of representatives of the state had to wait for years in political functions before the Austrian courts restored their innocence in the sense of innocence. In this sense, I think we should all be interested in improving data protection in this Republic. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Now Is the Chief Minister of Justice!]] For me, Mr Schieder, there is no doubt that these efforts are taken seriously by all, by the Austrian Parliament, but also by all members of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't say anything about agriculture?]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I can now turn back to those areas which are the real basis for the discussion of this meeting today. First of all, I should like to thank Mrs. Sickl for having implemented the pension reform in her term of office. It was a difficult subject, it was a subject for many in the Austrian population, which was painful for them because it involved in their direct and comprehensive life planning and changed there. I believe, however, that the German Chancellor's remark is to be fully underlined, that this Federal Government has achieved by finally implementing the necessary reforms of the years 1995 and 1997, which were then under way, and thus the pensions for this legislative period – I am aware of the figures that have come to me as a parliamentarian – but also beyond this legislative period. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Feurstein made it clear from the speaker's point of view that there should and must be a significant improvement in the area of labour law and unemployment support for seasonal workers. As a Social Minister, I agree with this opinion, Mr Feurstein. We all know that this afternoon we have the next round of negotiations – with the involvement of the social partners – and I am pleased that, finally, together with Mr Dr. Bartenstein will come up with a solution that will take into account the interests of the entire population in this state in such a way that we can talk about socially balanced regulations in this area. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the area of family policy, my department is currently preparing for the implementation of "children's money for all". The approximation of the figures between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Generations has been so great that we can now get to the final round. I assume that at the beginning of 2001, this important legal project of this federal government can be reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen! The "children's money for all" will also involve important improvements for women and women in this society. I should like to remind the women here in the House that the old karenz money scheme has not been possible in terms of merits and training during the karenz money relationship. Therefore, it is planned to achieve a "children's allowance for all" with means of service, with possibilities of professional representation, with possibilities of staying in their own profession, with possibilities of professional improvement through training. Instruments are being created to ensure that women who have decided to leave their working life because of child care are fully restored to their professional skills, as is called in Technokratendeutsche. I believe that there is also a need to discuss the extent to which women should be open to their businesses during the period of child benefits. There will be talks with the economy there, because I know that at a time when we are God-than-than-than-the-go, thanks to the efforts of this Federal Government to achieve full employment in many areas of Austria, the companies are again interested in the return to their occupations of skilled employees with excellent qualities, at the last stage of professional development.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4421	Federal Minister! We agreed to a speaking time of 15 minutes in the President. I ask you to come to the end of your execution. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4448	Mr President. I will stick to the time horizon, but may only say briefly in my area that I also have special concerns about consumer protection and, above all, the affairs of the invalids in that state. I've already done it, I'm even affected by it as HCV-Positor. I am therefore happy and proud to become a member of the Federal Government right now, in which the Federal Government with 1 billion schilling will make as much money available to the disabled as never before in the past, so that the disabled will have a fair share in the working world in this state and finally the best opportunities in that state. Ladies and gentlemen! I offer you fair, comprehensive information for the legislative period and a fair and comprehensive cooperation of my department, as we were used to in the past. I am looking for you in the interests of social peace in this state to use this fair offer, because – and I am convinced of it – only in a socially peaceful Austria will we be able to implement all our ideas for improving the world for tomorrow and the day after. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4481	Next item is the report by Mr Edlinger. Time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I have the opportunity to say the words of Mr Social and Women Ministers. The main thing is very attentive. I share his view that a basic consensus in social policy would be desirable, and I also share his view that consensus can only be achieved if there is a dialogue before, a dialogue that is supported by fairness that all dialogue partners are heard in the same form. However, I have missed that from Mr Mag. Mainly certain positions, which are rightly in the public debate and which were represented by his predecessor, are changed and here in the House – perhaps also due to some announcements in the media – are specified. But I waited for it in vain. I believe that social policy is indeed of interest to most people. I pointed out that it was only last week that not only the highest tax rate is a very non-social matter, but also that the principle of social security is misunderstandingd by this federal government, because it is obviously not a question of dealing socially justly, but of meeting the socially weak. [[Abg. Gaugg talks to Federal Minister Mag. Chief.]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Listen to him at least a little!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I miss the answer to the question of how those citizens of our country – and this is the vast majority of the people in Austria – who earn about 30,000 s or less, are spared from the "package of atrocities" of this federal government. I am thinking of the tax issue, but I am thinking of many issues relating to social policy. Mr Sozialminister! [[Abg. Huber: The minister doesn't even listen! He's not interested!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pipe, beep, beep, beep, beep!]] You said the dialogue is important. In the area of dialogue, the Austrian social partners have a great tradition. It would have been useful to know from you whether you, too, give the social partners the priority they deserve. Mr Sozialminister! How do you deal with the Chambers of Labour, with the trade unions and social security schemes? Is it, in fact, so that you shorten the contributions to the Chamber because You know better what workers want anyway? The motto is: Get away with over-company co-determination, get away with compulsory insurance! when it goes to ÖVP and FPÖ? – The answers to these questions would have interest me very much, Mr Sozialminister. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Us too!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the question of the pension system: I have noted your comment that the pension system is secured by the measures you have taken during this legislative period – then you have made a boost, which means: possibly beyond that –. To do this, I have to say: I am very curious whether you are actually committed to this project in the next few years. Mr Feurstein! They claimed that I too would have voted in favour of reductions at the time. I have to say: That's wrong! It was true that I – and at the time in December some of you were hiding behind me – also felt that changes had to be made in the area of early retirement age. Although I was for a much longer grinding time, even up to two years, but until 2005, but for no discounts! Dear Dr. Feurstein! Only someone who cannot imagine how to deal with a pension of 12 000 S to 13 000 S can think of discounts at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These pensioners want to take 15 percent away!Unknown term type: "%s".? This is socially disgraceful and would certainly not have been carried by me! [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high is your pension? How high is your pension? Mr. Edlinger, how high is your pension? Do you have 12,000 S?]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: How high is your pension?]] Mr Sozialminister! How do you cope with the reduction of accident pensions due to the inclusion in the tax system? – I hope that this afternoon you will give up the plan that a unemployed construction worker will not get any money for four weeks and then have to say to his children: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How high is your pension? 200 000, Mr. Edlinger? Do you have 200 000 S pension?]] You must wait until the next one, until I can make this or that purchase! [[Abg. May. Trattner: Are you coming out with 200 000 S?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 200 000 S Pension!]] I am curious to see if you have the social conscience that you have at least indicated here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: We already heard it! You don't need to repeat it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It was interesting that the Minister dedicated his role as Minister of Women to a much wider area. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 200 000 S Pension! 200,000 s he's cashing! Absorber!]] I take note that you are in this country women's minister, and it is indeed true that some in the traditional form think that the man is the head of the family. A man, namely the new head of the Social and Family Affairs Ministers, now also has the say in this area. Austria finally managed to get newspaper reports back into the European Union: a man in the midst of many women. Finally, we are back where we were in the area of women's policy in 1970. The ÖVP and FPÖ governments have managed to put the trends in women's and family policies back to Stone Age within just a few months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As a man, I do not want to judge that the women in our state will have to judge. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pension Millionaire!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that you, too, have been given particular attention in this debate to the top-level affair. It is also interesting that Mr. Westenthaler – I have noted what he said – has meant in the media in military form, he is bringing about an "ultimative counter-beat". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] This was a round-up with inaccurate and in no way related to the arguments that served to divert from the main thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't like that! That was a hit! Complete hit!]] Daily, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, there is new evidence that the FPÖ has set up a peak net within the Austrian police in order to monitor political opponents, but also unspoiled citizens. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Socialist Ministry of the Interior!]] Day after day, the indications are that the FPÖ has done the most serious political attack on our democracy, their right and their fundamental values. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who wrote this to you? Who wrote you that?]] Every day, the clues, ladies and gentlemen, are compacted, that the systematic stifling of political opponents and other citizens has not only been done with knowledge, but – that is particularly objectionable – on behalf of the head of the Freedom Party. This must be said to the public in all clarity! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who wrote you the sentence? Abkassier! Pleasure! Socialist vulture! Pleasure!]] It is not against the Social Democratic Minister of the Interior, but against a Mr. Haider, against a Mr. Kabas, against a Mr. Kreissl. Your party's top officials are involved in a matter that is highly in need of information. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One! Get out of here! Kessler! Schlögl!]] The Federal Chancellor knows nothing but to say that there were 30 years of Social Democratic Interior Ministers. This affair can only become known when one chats out of the net, and this paneler is called mini-service. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: One!]] This Mr Kleindienst has brought this matter into play, because it seems that he cannot do so with this kind of politics, with this disgrace, with this incisiveness that characterizes your policy and that makes people, in fact, Hampelmen in this country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Whom you bought! Who you bought!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Socialist buying!]] That is why I think I am venerationing Ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry would be just that way of clarifying all your opinions, including against other political parties. [[Abg. May. Trattner: That was a good decision that you are no longer ministers! Retired Minister of Finance!]] But you know exactly why you don't allow this – because you're sitting here with a very, very bad conscience. The time will bring the perpetrators to the daylight, of which I am sure. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Failed Finance Minister! You're a failed finance minister!]] The clock of justice is sometimes slow, but very precise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4941	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. Time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e4975	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the bench! High house! I regret that today's presentation of the new Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Women is overshadowed by the data clause abuse that took place entirely in the era of socialist interior ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: The Federal Chancellor started!]] [[Abg. Of whom, Mr. Gaugg? - From you!]] Especially you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, have repeated hetz campaigns against top-of-the-art liberals, first of all head of state Dr. Haider, forgetting a member of the board of the Control Bank in Austria, who had to give way to a certain Mr. Exminister Scholten and committed suicide on the basis of your political system. But you think you can continue to carry out het campaigns without regard to losses. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Another example: A Styrian Federal Council of the FPÖ will be sent. It appears at the Gendarmerieuniform meeting. It is they who bring the people to the brink of despair and bring it together with the fact that Bundesobmann sent Dr. Haider "his horse" to the Federal Council. These are you and your characters! You also forget "Lucona", the "Club 45" – all your tips have gone in and out there. This Causa has led to a number of withdrawals. All this you forget, but you even send out your Expleiter Chief Edlinger and write him a sentence on how to deal with spicy or other affairs. This is to a great extent unbelievable. You have no credibility on this question, especially you, Mr ex-Secretary of State Wittmann. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It seems that dealing with people doesn't matter to you when it comes to the freedom of the people, especially the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider, because he hurts you most, in the form that you lose mass voters. Thank God there has been a change in this republic. [[Abg. Gradwelt: As in the Styria! As in the Styria!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you have lost, yes!]] With the presentation and installation of the new Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, a new era begins in Austrian social policy. The SPÖ, together with the ÖVP, is subject to a misdevelopment – until the 4th century. February of this year; in the case of ever higher debts, increasingly fewer benefits, until ultimately the "consumer" was established as a memorial to the Republic. This is your form of contributions for the Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How can it be that after 30 years of SPÖ Chancellors, 30 years of SPÖ Finance Ministers and many years of women's ministers, there are thousands of workers in Austria without a collective agreement? How can it happen that 1 million people – mostly women – live at the poverty line or below? How can the question of equal treatment for men and women be further separated in income than ever? There are large differences in income in the individual sectors – ÖGB President Vergestnich knows exactly. How can there be differences of up to 35 percent in the income of equal work if the overall women's policy of SPÖ has been so excellent up to that time? The fact is, you didn't bring anything together in this area either. Mrs Dohnal was still trying. We prefer to cover the coat of silence about what has come after that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They believe that unfinancing pensions will be paid until they are strong. They take their chances for young people with their form of financial policy. I'm gonna have to keep this mirror on you. They explain to the population that everything can be financed. They have always told the employees of the "consumer" that everything can be financed, it is all in the right lot. – It only came to the public which contracts They offered to the Director-General at the time and to which disgraces the "consumers" were employed, without having paid them overtime. You've got to keep that up! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Today you are weak!]] You have to keep in mind the mirror all the time, because, while the new Federal Government is working on the renovation of the Austrian household, you and your party leaders are at the forefront of the Thursday demonstrations. They were not about the Republic, but only about the occupation of your posts. It's broken down in itself. The demonstrations in the sand have passed, and the sanctions you are looking for are also puffed. Finally, it remains that the SPÖ can no longer beat the defeat of the offices of the capital as it would have liked. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Edlinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, knows that the reorganisation of this budget is not easy, because now he is already so far, he thinks and says that the zero deficit could actually be achieved. – With Minister of Finance Grasser already! I doubt it with you, because you did not tell us the truth at the budgets before. [[Abg. Edlinger: I always got it!]] You've always said you'd hit it point-by-point. – It went full side by side. 100 billion schillings must be saved. This is not a cardboard stalk, Mr. Ex. Edlinger! If you had been more careful about the resources and resources in the past, we would not need these massive interventions in the budgets. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: It doesn't get any more right when you say it again and again! Wrong!]] It is not easy to live in a time of exploding petrol prices, in a time with a euro suffering from sobriety, which you have first and foremost incubated us. They were the one who introduced the euro in Brussels or wherever. At that time it is located at 1.13, now we have reached 0.8, and the biggest concern is that it is once at 0.7. This is your financial policy, these are the results and impact! [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is Holler! That's Holler!]] Today we have an inflation rate of 3 percent per month in the Republic. These are the effects and causes. Here I would expect you to assert your perhaps remaining influences within the European Commission, so that once the price driver ends with petrol. This inflation and these petrol prices only affect the more socially weak, not Mr Liebscher of the Austrian National Bank, who constantly explains to us that it is not so bad. Mr Duisenberg says that it would be best if the politicians did not say anything about it at all. There I have to say, dear friends, one should already show them that we also have resources that may also need those who believe today to be able to blackmail us with oil. That's water. That is what I am saying in all clarity, and that is why I invite you to support us here. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Are you against monetary union? – You're selling our water!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do you want to withdraw from monetary union?]] What do we expect from the new Minister for Social Affairs and Women? First of all, a professional and financial improvement for women, an actual implementation. He will take the evidence of this, and I have great confidence that he is able to pick up those failures of the SPÖ women's ministers and finally ensure that there is real equality. Secondly, the introduction of the children's check. Why Torp Are you taking such measures? – You are responsible for the lack of kindergartens. Children are becoming more and more indifferent to you. They have always been particularly important for foreigners in recent years. [[Abg. Edlinger: Isn't that the federal states? – The federal states are responsible for kindergartens!]] They have failed to ensure that disabled people have a higher employment rate while employment is increasing. - We're creating a billion disabled people. I am convinced that there will be rapid implementation, in particular with a view to improving access to the profession for the disabled. The merger of social security institutions is a measure which shows efficient management. The introduction of a three-pillar model is strangely always torpeded by the SPÖ. But in the working chambers we already have this three-pillar model, there it was installed with great joy. So I can't quite understand the protest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] I expect to receive the calculation models for seasonal staff in our Republic, so that there is a fair distribution of income among employees and employees, a prevention of the introduction of the four-week waiting period and the issue of Easter enlargement, immigration and commuting problems, a special consideration of Austria. Of course, this change of government has caused irritation, especially with the active assistance of the SPÖ. Why were they? You're so massive about it, aren't you? Why did you scream so loud at this loss of power? – Because it is also – and this is unfortunate – associated with the detection of the abuse of tax funds of the Austrian population! They have abused this republic and its citizens for their own self-service shop. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You are weak!]] A small example – I just mention the word "Euroteam": All of a sudden, no one knows anyone at all. Mr. Klima no longer knows he has a son. The press speaker David Mock doesn't know he's a member of an association somewhere. But Mr. Chairman, the best friend of your chairman Gusenbauer, who has lost access, is the one who can lurk 118 million schilling unverified. Unverified – 118 million schilling of tax money! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Despite the resistance of SPÖ, we will improve the efficiency of labour market services and other social areas. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Of course!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: "That would also be a possibility," Mrs. Mertel...!]] I'm convinced of that. We have already succeeded in achieving the abolition of the limit of retiring for pensioners, the equality between workers and employees – that hurts you! For years you have been talking about it; it hurts you that you have not taken a step forward. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: No! They're weak!]] We are now in a position to show this. There's a lot to do... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's the 50. Casting up your old...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] There's a lot to do, Mr Kogler. Once, please do not use the mouth, but use the brain – I would really like it! There is much to do and much to create in this republic. I'll invite you from the SPÖ: Give up your resistance and continue to work for the benefit of this Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5274	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The Federal Chancellor has initiated this debate, among other things, with a very memorable sentence. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have literally said: "To be a man cannot be a cause of discrimination." – This sentence alone clearly demonstrates the female-political incompetence of this entire federal government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They know that Austria has been cheated on the part of the EU at least as often as on budget policy. The difference between the sexes in economic terms, the so-called "Gender Gap", is far too big for a developed industrial state. And you know that the so-called employment miracle is at the expense of women. The atypical employment conditions become more, the temporary, the temporary, the non-existential part-time. You know all this, and yet you say: "You can't be a reason for discrimination." The Austrian women will know how to answer this announcement properly! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Frauenminister – for that was the only female title for a member of the government we had – and Mrs Sickl has taken over him in an answer to a question – you are speaking against better knowledge! [[Call the ÖVP: But you too!]] They cannot agree with the corresponding expertise in social policy. You know exactly what you have said here as your wish, namely the reduction of this economic gap, is being countercared by the policy of the Federal Government. The figures in the budget are others, and you did not object, Mr Mag. Head! They know that the pension reform – today so famous – works very unilaterally at the expense of women, by several percentage points more due to their occupational interruptions. They know that the money for childcare facilities has been deleted at the federal level, put on zero. They know that only in domestic childcare is invested and that the training allowance has been removed after the karenz phase in which it would be particularly important. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true!]] You did not address a particularly embarrassing circumstance in the form, namely that in the future for a woman's social security, the criterion whether she once born a child or not will be relevant for a woman's social security for a lifetime. This is an anachronistic criterion, but it underlines the intentions pursued by this Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Once a child had, the chances of co-insurance have been preserved at no additional cost. For whatever reason – I thought it should be private – no child had: It's wrong if the household income is wrong! All in all, I would have expected a word from you to be redistributed. The Second President of the National Council has indeed defended the privileges for the billionaires, the founders of the foundation with strong words, saying: You can't introduce something and then remove hop or drop again. – That’s why I ask you: What happened – hop or drop – to women, for example, when you deleted the training fee? This is very one-sided, and that is not even mentioned by you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Women have lost their own voice in the government for a long time. There was this voice once – I would also like to warmly welcome Mrs Dohnal! [[Congratulations with the Greens and SPÖ for the former Federal Minister for Women's Affairs Johanna Dohnal, who is sitting on the gallery.]] [[Abg. Young: The fact that you're still claping is already amazing...!]] Now I would like to inform you of a few votes of women. [[The speaker holds several papers.]] All these are original letters that have reached us. Women's Services Union: "To bravo! After the abolition of the Minister of Women and the integration of the Department into the Ministry of Social Affairs, the blue-black government finally gives us a man who tells us women where it is going." Or the magazine "An.schlagen" "The fact that a man represents women's agents in the Social Ministry is only consistent from the point of view of the FPÖ because the FPÖ operates an anti-wife policy. [[Abg. Böhacker: What's its name?]] [[Abg. Young: Sells four to five pieces a month!]] – And who could do better than a man?" Or Mrs Erdmgil-Brandstätter writes: The Federal Government is committed to gender mainstreaming. Where have the measures now being decided been reviewed from this point of view of equality, gender mainstreaming? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Head of the Federal Minister Mag. Mr Grasser) Mr Federal Minister, please listen!]] – You have not even ignored this commitment. The implementation of the UN Women's Convention and Framework Agreements will be required. Nothing of all! – Yes, he should only show before the television audience how much he is interested in women’s policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] That is a good example. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: The magazine "An.schlagen" is really not so important!]] Or Mrs. Althaus, who writes: "Whoever is no longer allowed to represent his own interests is depleted. What's next? The abolition of women's right to vote, because men represent women's interests much better anyway than they could ever have?" Or the "Oberösterreichische Networking Group"... [[Abg. Steibl: The women are not interested at all!]] If you think it doesn't interest the women, then you also give a debated example of how much you're worth the voices of the people, of the population, of women's votes. They're worth a lot to us, and they're worth coming into this house! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Especially when they are published in the magazine "An.schlagen"...!]] The Upper Austria Networking Group: Under the Amsterdam Treaty, "all EU governments are invited to involve women in all policies and decision-making processes in the same way". Then another two individual letters from citizens; one written in terms of tuition fees, tax for students: [[Abg. Young:... Mold Letters!]] I feel betrayed for my matura and for my degree qualification. What good is it for me to have all of this if the money and time – this woman also has children – are missing? These are apparently the only criteria that count as access to study, and not knowledge and ability. Austria is becoming a poor country. - Quote. Another complains of the removal of the training fee because it is unlikely that she will be able to continue her work as an export manager, which she interrupted because of Karenz, at the same level. - All these are examples. But also from me a word in terms of top-level cowardry: Federal Chancellor! You too seem to have changed your opinion on this matter. You don't have a long time ago towards the person Mag. Mainly, his distance from the then Haider/Krumendorf expressions – SS veterans as "decent people" – is half-hearted, that is not enough. They have therefore spoken against an appointment of the Head of State as the Third President of the National Council. – And now you are dictated that this man, the You didn't think you were fit to sit in your government at the time? What's happened since then that makes your findings so different? Or: You too, Mr Mag. Chief, in your "press hour" said there's no fault with the FPÖ. – Presumption of innocence is good and beautiful, but first of all political responsibility is something other than criminal responsibility, and second, you are no longer concerned with the suspicion of innocence – as is not the case with Böhmdorfer – but it is a matter of laying down innocence, and it seems to apply only to your own party friends. That's classical partyism! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] One last thing: You've been worried about the family of Dr. Haider. [[Abg. Young: The speaking time has expired!]] We all refuse to be Sippenhaftung and the like. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How long is the speaking time actually?]] But what do you say to the journalists' families sitting up here today, to whom Dr. Haider has addressed today, that the top coward is the invention of sick brains of some journalists? – Explain You've got this family one day!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5562	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5584	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to my predecessor: It is only the deeds and not the words that are important! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Oh, that's it!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is important that a good women's policy is made; what matters is politics. Here the People's Party has full confidence in Herbert Haupt that it will make a good women's policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The actions are important. I have seen with great interest, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you have on your Taferln "All power to men!" demanded and immediately... [[Abg. Bures: Completely wrong!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ah, isn't it? – But you then immediately put it into practice. They have deleted the women's minister, except for Prammer, who was reportedly, and replaced him with a man. All power the men! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I would remind the Federal Minister for Finance, Edlinger, that it was his debt policy, which caused the budget hole of more than 100 billion schilling, that it was his debt policy, whether we need to reorganise it in a reform dialogue now, and that it was his debt policy, whether we need to put things back into practice in a package of social security. Remember that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because I have spoken to Mr. Edlinger, out of service, and heard his real emphatic appeal regarding 15 percent reduction in pensions: Mr Edlinger, remember: Who put in the early retirement fees, and when?- Oh, my God! – This has introduced a coalition government that Minister Hums has heard from the Social Democrats. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: You were there too? Look!]] In this coalition government, the 15-percent limit on deductions for early retirement pensions has been introduced. So that always applies: When you point your finger at someone, three fingers point back to one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] These three fingers have pointed out to you, Mr. Edlinger! It was you who introduced these deposits! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me also say a word about data abuse. If it is true what is currently in the media – I have nothing else to do with what is in the media – and if these facts are confirmed, then there is a scandal that must be clarified. However, I would like to say: I've been in this house long enough to know the Hydra data abuse. She's got seven heads, and she's taken off a head, so she keeps growing up. The first person who wanted to turn his head off from Hydra data abuse was Minister Olah – then a socialist. There's been more. There was Minister Lösnak – I remember exactly – and it was your party friend Mayor Zilk, who, in an excellent discussion contribution, pointed out that the question of data abuse was always an important problem among socialist interior ministers, which so far clearly could not be solved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But there's already a question. I heard Mr. Landeshauptmann's deputy Schlögl on television, who was confronted with the fact that all these data abuses concern his time and the time before. Schlögl said the following – I quote –: "First of all, I would like to say that 52 million surveys are carried out each year. This is a remarkably high number of 25 000 police officers entitled to do so. There have always been suspicions. If there has been such evidence in my time, immediately it has been examined. I also made a number of advertisements to the prosecutor's office. There have been court proceedings, there have been acquittals, there have been convictions. There has been a variety of disciplinary procedures. That is to say, in my term of office, it has always been immediately responded to the smallest reference, and appropriate measures have been taken." ORF question: "How many cases have there been investigations?" Loop: "I can't tell you the exact number. It must have been a double-digit number." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! A minister who has a double-digital number of investigations on data abuse and does not change the system has the political responsibility to do so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: A dreamer!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's how it looks!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no judicial procedure yet. [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: Why don't you agree to an investigation committee?]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Please agree to the Investigation Committee!]] I will come to the committee of inquiry to speak. I know your strategy, Mr Wittmann: They have always been so successful in the Federal Government to consider the wrong problems with wrong answers. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] So far, there's suspicions, there's serious suspicion. However, we have confidence in the officials of the executive in the Special Commission, and we have confidence in Federal Minister Ernst Strasser that these investigations – unimpeded by politics, only by law – are carried out properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, we also have confidence in justice and trust in Minister Böhmdorfer that he uses his entire legal capacity – and that he has – to ensure that these procedures are implemented very quickly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: What is the Bohemian to do?]] In this confidence – if I had not already known – I am confirmed by the Chief Prosecutor Schindler, who said today in a press release – I quote an APA message: "Schindler emphasizes that in nine years, he has never been in the debate as a senior prosecutor. ‘I’m proud because I’m not a party myself. ... But from Böhmdorfer I have never felt or got the touch of a direction at all.” - Quote. Thank you, Minister of State! And that's how it's supposed to stay! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course – and I would like to stress this once again – the Federal Chancellor and Minister of State have pointed out this point – applies to all the presumption of innocence, to all. Felix Ermacora, our long-standing colleague here and an eminent human rights activist, has quoted in his comment on the European Convention on Human Rights Christian Broda – for you, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, no unknown; he was the SPÖ Party attorney and then many years of justice ministers – and there it has said: "Ch. Broda, the former Austrian Minister of Justice, has shaped the term ‘media justice’. Indeed, the presumption of innocence is no more at risk than by persistent press campaigns relating to certain persons." - Quote. We should consider this very carefully. I think what to do is clear: The facts must be clarified; all accusations must be examined; Home searches shall be carried out according to judicial order; Accounts must be opened – according to court order; criminal responsibility must be determined by independent judges. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I have more confidence in justice than in Members who have clearly known everything today. Mr Pilz knew exactly what he was saying: It was the liberals! Mr Gusenbauer spoke of a blue scandal, of a FPÖ scandal. Yeah, what else do you want to investigate? You know everything! You Are Masters of Prejudice! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That is why I am in favour of a court, where non-cooperative, judicial-thinking officials are investigating everything. If the facts are on the table, then the hour of politics comes. Then comes the hour in which one has the political responsibility to clarify, and then the hour comes when the Augias stable, if there is it, will be missed out by a Hercules.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5842	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Riess-passer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e5864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! High house! First of all, I am pleased to see that across all party borders and across the media landscape of the new Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt is recognized and respected as an expert. This has also been clearly and clearly expressed in the course of this debate today. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The only thing that seems to be blamed on him is the fact that he's a man. I find it particularly noteworthy that this accusation comes from two parties, in which "all power belongs to men", namely, one of the Greens, in which a woman as party leader and clubwoman was advised to put a man in place, and the other of a party such as SPÖ, in which a woman had no chance at all to apply for the party chair, for I still have very well the statement of the Vienna city councillor Brigitte Ederer in the ear, who said to the question why she did not apply for the party chair in the SPÖ: [[Ironic cheerfulness and oh-noise in the liberals]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is embarrassing!]] "The SPÖ is not yet ready to accept a woman as president." – I can tell you: [[New ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Other parties are far more there than you are. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Binder: (executing a corresponding gesture with your fingers) Yes, they have puppets!]] Responsible Women's Policy, Dear Ladies and gentlemen, it does not depend on who they do, but on how they are done. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Nor does women's policy consist of Sunday's speeches and symbols, and the fact that Mrs Prammer is wearing a tie today and Mr Cap is not making him a particularly good woman's representative; neither is Mr Pilz, who has never worn tie before, but who has never done anything for women. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Very good!]] Women's policy, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, not exhausted in symbols, but must put concrete actions. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, you can see the concrete actions!]] The balance sheet of 30 years of socialist women's policy is that women still earn by 30 percent less than men and the trend among their governments was rising. 30 years of women's policy among socialist ministers has meant that the risk of poverty of women, especially of single women, has increased and that you have been able to resist it except beautiful words. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Faster! Faster!]] We want equal opportunities for women in careers and occupations. We want the same pay for the same performance. We want kindergartens with opening hours that are compatible with working hours for women – a fact that you have never accomplished. [[Abg. Bures: By abolishing the Kindergarten billions?- Oh, my God!]] We want to ensure, with the introduction of child money, that women have the option without financial pressure. [[Abg. Huber: Faster! Faster!]] And we want to ensure that there is an independent pension scheme for women and pension-based billing of child rearing times, because women's policy for this federal government and for this social minister is not talking but acting. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, on the current occasion and on the basis of the fact that today, in this debate, which should have been about social policy and the new social ministers, I would like to say once again that I strongly condemn the FPÖ, its former party officer and the Minister of Justice, and also say that I strongly reject these allegations. I reject these accusations because they are wrong! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to say from my experience over the past 15 years that before important elections I have experienced the ever-increasing attempts to defame and criminalise the FPÖ and its leading representatives. These attempts always follow the same pattern from accusations and allegations to the room without the slightest evidence, then a corresponding media drum fire is triggered, and the media reporting is valued tax-free as evidence of debt, according to the motto: [[Abg. Dobnigg: With you people are served immediately!]] Something's going to hang! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The most pressing goal of all these attacks has been and is Jörg Haider. After nearly two decades of failure to attend the elections politically, you have taken advantage of every important choice on the method of personal accompaniment. [[Abg. Neighbors: You are talking about your own methods!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is inconceivable for a democratic rule of law that there is hardly any criminal offence that Jörg Haider has not yet been subject to: He had acquired his house in an illegal manner, he had engaged illegally foreigners in the Bearental, he had consumed cocaine and had been drug addicts, he had attempted extortion, he was the "Zie Mumbaier of right-wing extreme terror", the blood trail of the letter bombs led directly to the FPÖ and thus to him, and so on and so on. – All these accusations, all these accusations have proved to be wrong, and so it will be this time. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But you went even further. After various telephone hearings and observation actions by private detectives were unable to produce the desired load material against Jörg Haider, one is not afraid of it – the former security director Sika wrote it in his book – to construct threats to include security officers in his environment with the aim of getting first-hand information. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What are you talking about?]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is a way of dealing with every rule of law of the law, and it is above all a procedure which also demonstrates a unique human defiance. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Here – I would like to say that quite clearly. – It is not only about the politician Jörg Haider, but also about a family father with a wife and children. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You confuse Parliament with a beer tent!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Or with a FPÖ board meeting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is not a board meeting of the FPÖ!]] I don't know if anyone from the Riege of the permanent Hider convicts has ever thought about what it means for his wife, for his parents, for his children, not only to live with constant diffamation, but also with ever-increasing threats against Jörg Haider as a person and against his family.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6151	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has the ability to enforce herself. However, I would still believe that they should not be disturbed by constant calls.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6178	I'm on it! – Photos, Mr. Schieder, by Jörg Haider im Fadenkreuz, released, so to speak, the publication of his residence address and his telephone numbers on leaflets, accompanied by ambiguous calls – all these are not individual cases! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is polemics from the government bank without talking about it! Come on!]] And where, please, did the indignation and indignation of all the moral guardians of this nation remain? Do you really justify "holy war" against Jörg Haider any means, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Is it compatible with the principles of the rule of law and democracy, a man who has achieved all his functions in a democratic way, who, on the basis of the clear electoral vote, is the head of state of the Carinthia, in this country and far beyond, to be free of birds? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is the wrong speech! You're not in the Styrian party board!]] The goal behind these recent attacks is clearly recognizable, and it is transparent. The goal is to destroy Jörg Haider and with him the FPÖ and thus sprung this coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You're not at a party event!]] And I'm telling you here and today and in all clarity: That's going to be You don't succeed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You have failed to do this with the sanctions you have ordered, you have failed to do with your horror stories about the budget policy of this government, and they will not succeed at all with a collection of nebulous accusations for which there is no evidence. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Keep your current parliamentary speech ahead of your party board!]] [[Abg. Dr. Hannes Bauer: That's unheard of what you're putting under us!]] In need of information is the political responsibility of the Minister of the Interior of the Socialists, in whose sole responsibility this whole causa falls. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You're not in the party board!]] All distraction maneuvers, whether against Jörg Haider or against Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, will not change anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6292	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me once again point out: This meeting will be broadcast on television. [[Abg. Huber: It is unbearable to have to listen to this!]] [[Abg. Edler: We're not in the Bearental!]] [[Other loud, outraged calls at the SPÖ.]] Hundreds of thousands of people in Austria can take a picture of the conditions here in the High House. I do not think it serves the reputation and dignity of this House if we are to hinder the speaker from speaking with constant intervening calls.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6338	It is clear to me, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, that the bad conscience leads to nervousness on your side, but it is nevertheless clear that the accusations against the FPÖ are just too absurd when you know that the most frequently questioned politician is Jörg Haider. [[lively calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Oils: Because of fast driving!]] Faith Are you really seriously concerned that the FPÖ is using the police equipment to stifle its own supervisor? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! Hundreds of thousands of people hear she doesn't talk about it!]] Does anyone seriously believe that it would have been undiscovered in a red Ministry of the Interior for years if the FPÖ had carried out a large-scale information collection from the police equipment? 30 years of socialist interior minister – this is the core of the matter, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! That is where we need to look when we talk about political responsibility. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's it!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Now let the prosecutor determine against the SPÖ!]] It is also no coincidence that all the real scandals of recent years have taken place in the dark circle of a single party. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President!]] Whether "Lucona", "Noricum", "Euroteam" or Bank Burgenland, they all fall within the responsibility of the Socialist Party! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President!]] And even if you make a routine request against the Minister of Justice every month, you will not be able to distract from it. [[Abg. Shasching: This is pure polemic!]] I think it is quite incredible that SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer is producing himself here and putting further accusations into the room under the protection of immunity, without having the slightest evidence of it. [[Abg. Ritsmer: Yes, your approach is immense!]] In your exaggeration in the fight against this federal government, do not hesitate to adapt the entire security apparatus and justice, a security device that has been in your political responsibility for 30 years, and this, although all the cases mentioned here fall into the responsibility of socialist Interior Ministers and none of them falls within the responsibility of this Federal Government. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's not true at all!]] [[Abg. Shasching: On the matter! On the matter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is your word on social policy?]] Their permanent attacks against the Minister of Justice, whose office is absolutely unfit and unattended, are nothing but the question of the independence of justice. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Is this your social policy?]] Their absurd accusation that the Minister of Justice would influence investigations and proceedings is nothing but the assumption that the representatives of justice in that country are not independent. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Unlike you, I do not believe that this is a matter of whether the opposition or the government is winning, but I am concerned that the rule of law is victorious in this country. And I have full confidence in this rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6545	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the one who has been driven back.]] I ask again, even if a speaker does not agree to let her speak so far that she can articulate herself enough! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mr President! To the Rules of Procedure! You can't say that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The speaker is speaking! There's no business treatment!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then he cannot defile. If he gives her the word, he's not allowed to say anything himself!]] For business treatment: Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6614	Mr President. There are exactly two options: Either it is a speaker already speaking, then no further enunciation can take place. Second possibility: If you wanted to give Mrs. Vice-Chancellor the necessary attention, it would have been appropriate to point out that she should talk about the matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6679	Mr Gusenbauer! I would like to be prepared to go on an excursion on the question of what is part of an item on the agenda in the next presidency. I would just like to say: The method of this House was to reach this term relatively far up to now. [[Abg. Rider: But not so far!]] If a woman is speaking, I do not want to create a different scale, especially if she is the Vice-Chancellor. I should like to say to Mrs Magnette that I am now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e6722	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs. Vice chancellor! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What I noticed in your speech: They remained the press spokesperson of the "simple party member" in Carinthia. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I note that there is no longer a good custom in this House, as there is much more in this country and in this House, namely that there is no polemics from the Government Bank, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why have you been thrown back? Why did you get Edlinger?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who tied your tie?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a loser tie!]] We have recently received a "Women's Minister", and it has already been pointed out: The "in" at the function designation once made it clear. We now have a "Mr. Women's Minister". It was already significant that Mrs. Sickl used the word "woman" very shamefully. On the other hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it says it in the throes of his conviction. But you are right, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party: I don't have to go that far. It is no longer necessary to discuss a progressive women's policy in this House. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you have against us? What did we do to you?]] The Minister makes it clear that there must be equal treatment in today's European Union until women are in the appropriate positions. We note that it took a man to make it clear that equal treatment is limited in time. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What do you have against us, Mrs. Colleague?]] There is no need to ask what the corresponding women's positions should be. We are pleased to be able to finally recognize that equal treatment is a transitional phenomenon. So at some point, ladies, we are allowed to be treated completely differently again – as in the good old days. How are you going to keep it, Prime Minister, when the Federal Equality Act is almost out of effect by means of a planned objectiveion law? Does this have to do with the fact that equality has already taken place in this country and is therefore allowed to take place again, ladies and gentlemen? How do you keep it, Prime Minister, with the definition of feminism, emancipation? Are you going to keep it the same as your predecessor, who has already made this definition very difficult? Minister! If the domination of men can be considered radical – and I believe it – Feminism can also be a bit radical, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why is Gusenbauer not a woman?]] Mr Gaugg asked the question: How did it get to all the women's question today? And Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has also tried somehow to balance. I also take stock of it, ladies and gentlemen. [[The speaker, during her speech, put several taferls, which contain parts of her speech, on the floor of the speaker.]] Before 1970: 12 weeks of maternity protection. - Now it's 16 weeks. There were no benefits for newborns and their mothers before 1970. – Today there is a mother-child pass. Before 1970: There was a karenz only at low income of the man. – Today: Parental care, part-time care, and much more were created. Before 1970: No help for professionals when children are sick. – Now there is a care exemption. As of 2000, ladies and gentlemen, the question will be answered again, namely: Women return to the stove and child care money. That's the new answer, that's the turn, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before 1970: Budgetary taxation, allowances under tax law, which only benefit men and the rich. – It was only through social democracy that individual taxation, the amount of tax evasion, came to the benefit of women in particular. What's up now? – A return to the time before the year 1970, ladies and gentlemen! Before 1970 – another Taferl, just to help you refresh your memory –: Educational barriers for girls, middle school admission examination, gender segregation in public schools. After that: Schools and universities are free to women. Open middle schools are there for girls and open the way to a good education. Joint teaching for girls and for boys. All of this was created during the 30 years of Social Democratic government. – Now study fees and admission exams are on, and this is particularly a matter of girls. Ladies and gentlemen! How do you keep it: § 144 StGB, single mothers without state aid! – Today’s abortion, and the single parents are legally equal. – I noticed the question mark very thick on my Taferl, because we have to expect a lot more to come. Ladies and gentlemen! Another Taferl. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mrs Colleague! On this page too, I want to read that too!]] I know, Mr Haigermoser, you've lost hops and malts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before 1970: The man is the head of the family, no help if the father does not pay, exclusive fatherly violence over the children, a medieval name right. – I don’t need to read more about what the situation is like now. But what's going on now, after the year 2000? – Joint care after divorce and much more, ladies and gentlemen. Another Taferl. [[Abg. Haigermoser: How many do you have?]] Before 1970, three weeks ago, minimum leave, rightless women when they are discriminated against in the labour market. Women in the public service do not count. Today, there are equal treatment laws, five weeks of minimum leave, women's promotion programmes. But an objectiveion law will tip everything, and the social security particularly affects women. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: No one knows what you've done!]] Another Taferl. Before 1970: Domestic violence is a cavalier crime. So was the sound until 1970! Today, there is a law on violence, women's homes and women's emergency calls, but you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, are cutting off at the women's facilities. [[Abg. Steibbl: This is an untruth! This is not fair to women!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Next time you have to make the Taferls bigger, no one can read it!]] The Federal Chancellor speaks of the report of the experts, the so-called Mazal report. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The Taferl has fallen by!]] If you listen, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you will be given the impression that you have never read this expert report! Ladies and gentlemen, what truth is spreading You here in this country? Once again, come back to Mr Frauenminister How do you keep up with the fact that there are still civil servants to this day? Not that I think we should fight for women to be admitted there, but what will your commitment look like? – I heard you were a member of one of these associations. – Sometime to eliminate this relic, ladies and gentlemen, that would be the right way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! How will you cope with the social security of study fees? – Last week I met or met a young woman who is a single parent. She just got divorced and has three children. She is busy with 30 hours, and so that she and her children have a future, she now wants to complete her studies, and she does so by the way. This is a woman who will feel the multiplicity of the importance of this social confidence in his own body. It will have to pay for the study, it will have to fear the common care of its three children, and of course it has no chance of getting any support from the government parties even in the first place. [[Abg. Steibl: She doesn't have to pay for it, she gets a scholarship!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What about unemployment benefit? Where are the many billion schillings that have already been mentioned today when the single parents are saved when intervention is saved wherever it is necessary? At the same time, after the Karenz period, the training career is immediately deleted. Ladies and gentlemen! For free health insurance I have already spoken twice in this house. These are four anti-discrimination statements, ladies and gentlemen. We will take all the legal action to be taken, even if it is at European or international level, but we will not take note of these four anti-discrimination statements, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government! You want to spin straw to gold, but you won't succeed. This fairy tale does not take place in this house – and will not touch women either. One last word: Austria has already experienced a time when the break-up of trade unions, the total privatisation without regard to social consequences and the disregard for a threatening economic disaster was the content of a political programme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) speaking time! 8 minutes have been agreed! 8 minutes were agreed in the Presidential, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka!]] It is an error, ladies and gentlemen, that increase in capital at any price automatically means wealth. Social peace is not for nothing, and not the gender equality at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) There have been agreements: 8 minutes speaking time! She's talking for 10 minutes!]] The absurdity of a Minister of Women and the lack of a women's policy is one thing, but this is almost inconceivable given that there is still a member in the Federal Government where there is an urgent need for explanation and that it does not do anything to comply with it and that does not bear the responsibility it has to bear, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! The President-in-Office of the Council has reached agreement on the time to speak.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7104	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7126	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Just no excitement, I know that the direct transmission of television will end in a minute, but the High House is good enough without television, and every speech that will be held afterwards is just as important for matter as those debates that have still come to television. So don't worry, everything goes as it used to be. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] First of all, as an attentive newspaper reader, I can deal with the fact that... [[Abg. Dr. Povysil is helpful to the speaker in putting his crutches down.]] Thank you, Mrs. Primaria. I think I'm a primaria for lifting the crutches, that's not bad either. That's very sweet. [[Call out the outrage at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: I don't have a problem with that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] Mrs. Colleague! I'm a little deaf, I don't understand. Come on. Please come after me and tell me! A little more respect for older people, because older people are no longer so easy, older people are no longer hearing so well! But you can come to me after that, and you can tell me all that. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I can now deal with two or three things that I have learned from the media and which have also been addressed by my previous speakers. Everyone pretends to be Herbert Haupt, whom we all know and whom we all appreciate – across party and political borders – the only man in all of Europe to accept and accept from the political side of women's things. I think I've read that at that meeting he's been taking part in in the last few days, there were also two other representatives in charge of women as men, a Spaniard and a Portuguese. I have not heard any protests from other European countries, because the Spaniards and the Portuguese are wondering to let men be used for women in this sector! Now also a few comments to another one of my previous speakers, namely Alfred Gusenbauer. Alfred, you've been talking about the problem with the Styrian election. I'd love to grab that. We liberals have suffered a sensitive election in Styria, but you have suffered the strategic defeat anyway, because the two government parties have reached at least 60 percent – 60 percent! – and the opposition only 40 percent. What does that mean against the following background? – The background is that the liberals on the one hand and the People's Party on the other have long recognized that in the past nine months each of the two parties has been able to spend more of its programmatic assets than the ÖVP has succeeded with the Social Democrats over the past 30 years. That means that content goes a little further. That's clear to the ÖVP! The fact that something can be implemented in terms of content has long been recognized by the liberals. You got something else in the Styria. They have learned that the old, constantly nourished fear within the ÖVP, which is called: Let us not go with the liberals, for if we do, then we will lose votes!, not true. They have been with the liberals, they have enforced much of their will, and they have cut off well. Which means well, they even cut off – perhaps a Styrian specification – excellent! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What about you?]] That means: As government parties, we remain at over 50 percent – currently 60 percent in Styria – together with the realization that we can implement much of our project – more than the rulers of black and red in common – and we recognize that the ÖVP does not lose the pants as it has always been prophesied when it comes to dealing with the liberals, but rather that it cuts off well! This is the strategic perspective of the outcome of the Styrian country election. You are the ones who have lost, and you are the ones who have lost the future prospects, because you have realized that we, Black and Blue, have the future with each other – and this has been marked in the Styria – in front of us and in hands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You won! The FPÖ has won!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If Wehleiden conjure up Europe when it comes to a Minister of Justice who has complied with it before his profession and has represented his clients as a defender and lawyer, I must say: They are those who have raised this in a special way – for example, Mr Pilz – not quite so delicate when it comes to their own party friends abroad. There is in Germany a vice chancellor and foreign minister on whom I read the following quotation marks – Joschka Fischer is the name: "I have never disputed that for almost ten years, I also wanted to overthrow the constitutional order in the Federal Republic using force. We have not adhered to the rules of the Criminal Code." – And then on: "We left radicals, we are the mad ones." - Quote. So that should have trusted anyone who would have been sent by the liberals to the Federal Government now to say – changed or just as! But that fits exactly into a very up-to-date newspaper report. In a newspaper that gives itself to the public, the following becomes without crying, without comment – but you've already gotten used to everything – under the headline: "Resistance days against Haider" printed: "Italy's Communists, the oppositional "Rifondazione Comunista" and the co-regulatory "Italian Communists" will be from 26 to 28. October to take part in the “International Resistance Days”, proclaimed by a platform “Open Carinthia – Koroska” against Kärntner’s head of state Jörg Haider in Klagenfurt.” - Quote. That's it! Communists, old and new, come to Austria from abroad, from Trieste and Friuli, and take part in resistance days – the word "resistance" is misused in a way that the resistance movement has long brought to the palm tree – against a duly appointed Austrian head of state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stalinist Oillinger!]] I don't wonder that the Communists are doing this, I don't wonder that you don't mention it, but I'm just wondering about the newspapers, because where's the uproar, where's the protest, where's at least the gloss. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Stalinist Oillinger!]] These are things that you must not leave unmentioned, even if the time to make statements is relatively short. A few remarks on the subject of lawyers, ladies and gentlemen: I already know that the type of consideration of what a lawyer should and must, is very different depending on which side you are standing on. If you need a lawyer yourself, you take the right view that the lawyer has only one interest at all and has only one guide to follow, namely: He has the interests of his client and nothing else at all. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Like Jarolim at AUA or at the airport!]] If he found borders, then he'd falsify evidence himself. But if the client comes with evidence, these appear plausible, and he sees himself with the documents able to help the client according to his order, then he is by no means acting to question. I do not wish any of you if he needs a lawyer the next time – and if I look at anyone who has been in court in the past years, I think it is likely that one or another will be standing there again soon – that he has a defender or a representative there – from the other camp; I also know all of them, I am with everyone per You, I could list you all – who then says: What do you give me for a paper, I don't know if I'm presenting it, it doesn't seem quite koscher to me, you got it again! – Well, dear, I don't want to experience that! The lawyer is, as it were, the client's foreign legionary, the Legionary gets his order, and he has to fulfill it. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Are you aware of what you said now?]] – Mrs Colleague, that is life! "No one can do anything for his clients," says an old proverb. It's from Michael Stern. [[Abg. Oellinger: "Our honor is called fidelity"!]] This is a statement for which others have been brought before court. Mr Commissioner, be careful. I wouldn't use such expressions! [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Khol.]] But, Mrs. Colleague, you wanted to say something. Your neighbor crossed you under the motto "All power to men". What did you want to say? - Nothing! Thank you. The standards you have to apply to a defender are such that he always... [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I asked you if you were aware of what you said now!]] Now it's come back to you, but now I don't want to listen. – That means: Put the standards on your lawyers as you put them on others! And then you'll see how much you like with your ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7374	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7395	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ofner, I don't know, should I understand this as a threat, or...? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: How you want!]] As I wish! Thank you. That's very generous of you. Now I know at least what the former Minister of Justice of the FPÖ has to do with representatives of the opposition parties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What did you do with Petrovic? Why did you drop Ms. Petrovic?]] The fact that there are open threats in this House against representatives of the opposition parties is also something new, Mr Vanner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why did you turn Mrs Petrovic off cold?]] I would just like to say to the vice chancellor: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer, you have shed some tears here about the "poor", "poor" country captain of Carinthia. – I am not going to hold a haider debate here today at this speaker’s desk. I'm just saying, If one in this country, in this Republic of Austria, has systematically used slander as a political weapon for years, then it was this politician: Jörg Haider! And if you want to read details about this, ladies and gentlemen, including those on the gallery, I can tell you that it has just appeared an excellent book by Hans-Henning Scharsach, it says: [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The speaker lifts up a book entitled "Haider".]] "Haider – Shadows over Europe". [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] It's well documented. Perhaps Mr Trattner would also do well to read it back and forth on occasion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Best, you read ghost novels, so similar!]] A "Spensterroman", Mr. Westenthaler, is probably also the APA message of today. She's today, 30. October, at 10.56 a.m., went over the APA screen. It says that according to Haider – literally quoted – "in the sick brains of some journalists" – the top coward was created, "in the sick brains of some journalists". – This is not the past, it is not in the book of Mr. Sharsach, that is happening today – I repeat: today! In other words: Anyone talking about a top coward is a mental disease for him, and this person is sitting in the coalition committee with the ÖVP! – No problem for Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, and no problem, of course, for the members of the FPÖ to deal with their ex-Parteiobmann. [[Abg. Olympians: "Praise over every suspicion"!]] I repeat: In his eyes the top coward has been created in the sick brains of some journalists. – This is not the case, Mr Bundeskanzler. That's what Haider said today. What's the presumption of innocence? The APA will not be mistaken in a literal quote. Haider may say: I didn't say that, or if I said it, I didn't mean it that way, and because of me, I'm sorry if someone got it wrong. - We know that too. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What did you do with Petrovic, Mr Planwirtschaftsminister?]] Federal Chancellor! "Government" you had put on the agenda today. The Minister of Social Affairs Sickl, who has been overburdened from the beginning, is replaced by the Head of Women's Rights. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Leave Mrs. Dr. Sickl alone!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: (in the direction of Abg. Haigermoser) Leave us alone!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is female hostility...!]] What is not on the agenda today is the exaggeration of government, Mr Bundeskanzler, for whom you personally bear the responsibility. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We will do a "devil"!]] I believe that it is still a difference whether I address Chancellor Schüssel or Deputies Haigermoser of the FPÖ! [[==References====External links== Arbitrator.]] Federal Chancellor! What do you want with your presumption of innocence? It is a fact, after all, that the Minister of Justice initially considered the criminal prosecution of Members to be a follow-up idea, and only weeks later did he take it back. – That was the reason for the first request for distrust. Even then, Federal Chancellor, you have sat down on this government bank, silenced and expressed your solidarity with the Minister of Justice by your silence. The second request for distrust was made after the White Report. Shut up, too. [[Abg. Großruck: In contrast to you, he wants to remain a philosopher!]] Later, the bowl came out in the sense: Well, the Minister of Justice is still learning. – Yes, the Minister may still be learning, but please not at our expense, Federal Chancellor Schüssel! And here's the latest: In his past, the Minister of Justice, as a party attorney of the FPÖ, has shownly benefited from FPÖ's chief actions. As a customer and beneficial person, he has benefited from this emerging illegal pointed ring – he, the lawyer Böhmdorfer. On hold: "Did you not know what documents these are?" Böhmdorfer said first "no" and second: "I got that from my clients." – The clients were Haider, Stadler and, as they all call, the top officials of the FPÖ. Now we have to imagine what this will lead to a situation in the justice system that the Federal Chancellor allows there! That's what it looks like: So the reporting prosecutor comes to the Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer and says: I would like to agree with the lawyer Böhmdorfer because he apparently used these illegal documents. – Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer says: Yeah, sure, a follow-up idea. – The prosecutor asks the lawyer Böhmdorfer: Well, what do you have? You thought of yourself at the time? – Lawyers Böhmdorfer says: I'm not saying anything about that. I appeal to my duty of silence. – The prosecutor comes back and says: Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, lawyer Böhmdorfer says nothing. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] – I mean, that’s hearty, but it’s the foreseeable reality! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is real!]] As a result, I can imagine, Justice Minister Böhmdorfer says: Well, the lawyer Böhmdorfer said he had that from his clients. Ask the client, Haider, where he has the documents. [[Abg. Ollinger: He is "higher than every suspicion"!]] – The poor prosecutor must now, on the one hand, consult the client Haider, on the other hand, he knows that the same Minister of Justice, who has given him this Council, has just declared the Minister of Justice that the head of state of Carinthia is superior to every suspicion. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: What you're doing here is deeply unscrupulous! You know he's been set free!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You know very well that the prosecutor has been released! That's incredible!]] If something deeply unscrupulous, Mr Krüger and ex-Justice Minister, then that the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Justice in charge of the Republic, says about someone – and whether the Haider – in an upcoming procedure, he is superior to any suspicion. [[Call to the liberals: "The" Haider!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Read today's issue of the Constitutional Lawyer Heinz Mayer! – I have never accepted this from you, Mr Ex-Justice Minister Krüger. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I thought you were serious, Mr. Klubobmann!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor Schüssel! They are personally responsible for these conditions. They bear the responsibility for the composition of this federal government, and there can be no talk of your being able to argue for presumption of innocence. Yes, the presumption of innocence applies to criminal proceedings, it also applies to sharks, it also applies to Stadler. That's all right, at least right now. But with the Minister of Justice, whose incompatibilities are clearly on the table, we are not talking about criminal responsibility of this kind, at least not yet. What a lawyer is allowed to do in this country, and what he is not allowed to do, will probably still have to be clarified. But at the moment we are not talking about it, but we are talking about political responsibility and political incompatibilities in connection with this Minister of Justice in this Causa. And the Federal Chancellor and the entire ÖVP cannot talk out, they cannot wash their hands in innocence. You cover these conditions! They're making the wall of the FPÖ and the Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer! That's the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7775	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, Mrs Freunde, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Belen, Mr Van der Freunde, has been sufficiently supported, is in a matter of fact related to the item on the agenda and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7799	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen in government responsibility! High house! Parliament today is invited to hold a principle debate on government reform, particularly in the field of social security and generations. This is an area that, as I believe, affects us all, because social policy is and remains a living thing, is something that affects and affects each one of us in any way, and therefore needs to be constantly changed, because the framework conditions as such are constantly changing. If I follow the discussion, I must note that the opposition is very little in favour of this important issue. Rather, I have noticed a torment for which hardly anyone understands. If you, today, have focused mainly on the competence of Mr. Prime Minister on women's policy issues in your contributions, I should like to say one thing to you: You cannot prove until the hour that you have been particularly happy and well-acted in women's policy. Also today, Mr. Haupt, since he is only in office for a week, cannot prove that he will actually implement all that he has done. – You can see things in this way too: a little detemorationized and more dedicated to the matter. A second one: You do from the SPÖ as if, since you are no longer in the government, the expulsion from Paradise would have happened! – I personally believe that Paradise has never occurred and will not take place in the future. Rather, we have to turn to the real issues and should stop making prejudices here and raise allegations against government work, which is considered successful and positive by citizens and many commentators everywhere! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I ask you about the SPÖ: Where is your social competence, which you repeatedly demand? – I didn’t see her at all today, even in an impressive way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... disturbed perception!]] Rather, as I asked for my clear ideas and a clear definition of this important area, as the Federal Chancellor has done today, as he said, this government has advocated reforms and already implements them. She has called experts and scientists because she is interested in qualitative processing. It continues the pension reform that we started in 1997 because we need to adapt to demographic developments. As Mr Edlinger, the Minister Extraordinary Minister, was saddened today that the reductions in the pension system are unheard-of and unreasonable, I must say one thing: Mr. Minister other than Edlinger! Where were you at the 1997 pension reform? At that time, we have discussed all of this in principle and decided with the agreement of your party and your person! You don't need to regret this today! You've been there with me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also think it is right that the Federal Chancellor has said very clearly here today that not only is one to rebuild the systems, to secure self-financing and to reduce federal subsidies, but also to revive the labour market with this structured social programme and to secure employment in a sustainable manner. Mr. Federal Minister. They have taken on responsibility to Parliament today, and that in very moving times. We all know you as a committed social politician for years, and I am convinced that you will bring your experience as a parliamentarian into your work in an appropriate way. I can assure you that we will support you in all areas where we are convincing and convinced. Federal Minister! We may wish you every possible good for this challenge, but we also want to say recognition of her work by the retired Minister Dr. Sickl. You, Mr Federal Minister, are now responsible for the social field, the area which has been in an enormous process of change for a number of years. Since today it has been said several times that social policy has become worse, poorer in recent months or weeks, I can tell you: In 1994, the social rate had a maximum of 29.7 percent of gross domestic product. In the meantime, until 1998, when we were together in the government of ÖVP and SPÖ, this figure fell to around 28.5 percent. So the change has already taken place in your time, in the time of your government participation. This too should and must be identified in the context of this principle discussion today. Mr. Federal Minister. In the "press hour" you spoke of turning to the situation of the weaker levels of income. I think this statement, this target, is important and courageous, especially because it is a fact – and it has also proved very clearly and impressively to the report of the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations, the former Ministry of Social Security – that today, although we all pretend that the country is in wealth, there are far too many citizens living below the poverty line. It is almost 18 percent, as this report shows. There we have social competence to show, especially where families are concerned. It can't be that a family with two children – you can read it everywhere; and that was already when you were in the government, dear Mrs Mag. Prammer! – has already reached the poverty line. In this regard, a change is quite, very important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Prammer: Single parents first and foremost!]] Mr. Federal Minister. They also talked about the process of change and changes in the social security sector. I believe that this project is a very important one and should finally be implemented. We have been talking about this for years, and there is an uncertainty in this respect, but not because no one wants a change, but because they are always talking about it, but not doing it! There are important projects ahead of us, for example the chip card that could bring us a significant improvement in health insurance. But I also believe, Minister, that it must be your task – and you will have us as a partner – to anchor the legal insurance obligations of citizens in the future, because only they guarantee me a maximum degree of social security: safety, without regard to the person, age and health of the insurance community. That's something quite, very positive. I mean, although we should question that, we must discuss it openly, we must always be aware of this valuable good. One last: Health insurance, particularly in connection with hospital financing, is in the arsenal. Minister! I think it is high time to think about the question of competence, to coordinate the performance and also to call for a clear responsibility of operators. In this context, I believe that other financial instruments, including self-reliance and self-retaining, should be something that can be discussed openly and honestly. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Social security is one of the fundamental foundations of the state – this has once been said by a very prominent state politician. This government will be committed to this principle and to this objective and will work with all its strength and determination to continue to pursue social policy in Austria in a good and close-to-bourgeois form.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7880	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e7902	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! – Mr Donabauer, Member of the Commission. It seems that it didn't happen to everyone, so I would like to quote here from a press release. It says: "Caritas warns – savings measures by the Federal Government endanger 900,000 people." - Quote. Looks like you haven't found out yet. But hat before you report on compulsory insurance. This will have to be carried out especially in your own party if you have this attitude... – Well, we see the realities a little different. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's no problem with us!]] Mr Khol! You said it was important to do this. – I even agree with you. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! You're both trade unionists!]] And Mr. Bundesminister Haupt has said – if the newspaper has quoted it correctly – that his life's motto is: "Life and let live!". As I said, if the paper just quoted it. I repeat: Live and live! and: Actions are important! Federal Minister! I am really excited about how you deal with the problem of co-insurance, for example, if a woman who has been working for 30 years becomes unemployed; a woman who has a husband with whom she has been insured so far, and who now falls out of emergency aid. – And that is where the new Federal Government reports – Mr. Federal Minister, the actions are measured! – that this woman is no longer insured, but that his own insurance is necessary. It will be measured by the actions whether there is the foreign exchange "Living and letting live" still applies. The same applies to the reduction of family allowances for the unemployed. Measure them by their deeds! On the one hand, the new coalition of family benefits is famous, but on the other hand, it reduces the family allowance for the unemployed. – The actions are crucial, Mr Feurstein, not the words! The actions are crucial to the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that there is no one here in this area, nor in the public, who would like to stop the efforts to get the disabled into employment. This is an ambitious project, an important project. But if, in return, the accident pensions are taxed, I'll put the claim again: Measure them in their deeds, not in their words! In fact, the words read: No new taxes! – In fact, however, the taxation of accident pensions is introduced. I mentioned a very specific case here in the House a few days ago. 15 000 S of prescription fees had a person to pay last year, but the accident pension is taxed. I think these are the cases you have to point out, and where it is – "Measure it by its actions!" – it becomes so clear that you are, in fact, making a policy different from those you want to make credible here again and again. Ladies and gentlemen! What, for example, does it look like with the duty to wait for unemployment benefit? Is that fair? I know your attitude. I've been told about your appearance in the press hour; I haven't seen her myself. But it will be proof in a few hours. Is it fair to introduce a waiting obligation in the event of temporary service conditions? Is it fair to introduce a waiting obligation if the service is resolved in agreement? – All these are things, ladies and gentlemen, in which you can be very well measured by your actions! I'm sure it'd be worth discussing your ideas about karenz money, too. In my opinion, raising the limit of merit does not solve the problem. What is it really about? – It is about the fact that the duties can be carried out in partnership between men and women in order to be able to actually take advantage of the karenz period. The limit of trust doesn't solve that. In my opinion, it is only soluble if we manage to create a wage-related pension fund and not to maintain the possibility of employment for men and women with a higher level of earnability, because then they are not with the child again. I think we should discuss this together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: This is the option!]] Federal Minister! You have been able to talk to your ministerial colleague, the Minister of Finance, about the budget for a few days. In his budget speech he said: Wherever "market failure" is noticeable, the state has to do more than before, especially – literally! – "in the social field". I am excited, Mr Federal Minister – you have not mentioned this in your speech here in the House today – to what extent you will ensure that the necessary funds for this social security are also provided – not through the introduction of ambulance charges, not through disabilities – and are actually made available. You can be sure: If you do, you have our support! But just as politics is now recognizable, I have to assume – not you, but the Federal Government – that this is going in a different direction. Also a very specific request to It stated: You mentioned it yourself in your speech today: Equal pay for equal work. – I expect you, Federal Minister, to do the work that Mrs. Hostasch has started – not: Equal pay for equal work!, because this principle has been implemented, but the same wage for equivalent work within the meaning of the studies that exist in your home and also with Mr Bartenstein's Federal Minister - is also achieved accordingly. This is not a question where policy can stand aloof and, above all, the employers can stand away, here you are required to take this into account accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! I also expect you, Federal Minister, to conclude with politics that the assessment periods are accepted in a parliamentary way, but are in fact continually being shortened – also by your home under your predecessor. Three days at the old coalition... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Only three days did not exist at the old coalition, or the note: We've been eaten together, we don't need a review at all. – At least 14 days or even longer periods of assessment were the rule. Remember and don't say the untruth here! A review period of only three days did not exist in the former coalition! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been addressed today, and you have said that you want to avoid hardship or negotiate hard. – You ask yourself the question: Who is the cause of these hardships? – The ÖVP FPÖ government is taking some action, your federal government is taking some action, and then the "facial sluggishers" come in and say: [[Abg. Böhacker: Edlinger!]] Well, we didn't mean it so seriously, that's what we're going to negotiate now. [[Abg. Böhacker: Debtenberg!]] It does not at all prevent you from not letting these hardships become reality at all or even discussing them at all. But here, too, the sentence: You'll be measured by your actions. – I think it would be better not to think of these hardships at all. You can be sure, Federal Minister, that we will measure you by your actions and not by your speeches.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8044	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the Ministerial Bank! High house! The real reason for today's meeting is undoubtedly the start of the new Minister for Social Affairs. This is a hugely important position in this state, considering that there are, in fact, all social concerns together in a political position. It is quite clear that red roses are spread from our side, also from the coalition partner, but one thing I was particularly pleased about, namely that this is also happening on the part of the media. For example, the magazine "NEWS" confirms to him that we are not really positive about the reputation of a competent detailed list. Even today's debate has confirmed that the oppositional criticism of his person has really left only one – that is what Mrs Vice-Chancellor has already mentioned –: The only criticism is: Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt is not a woman. And there will be a man who will represent women's agents in the future. As a woman of freedom and as a woman, I say to you, who for a very long time at least participated in the women's policy of our party: We free women see this differently because we have always had different approaches in the area of women's policy – other, more open approaches. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We free women always wanted to make women's policy together with men and never against men. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: For the men!]] And I believe that this is one of the reasons why the SPÖ women's policy has so far been so unsuccessful. If the first SPÖ woman minister Johanna Dohnal must also be admitted – she is now no longer in the audience gallery – that she has been at least a sincere, genuine fighter for women, especially in the ranks of her own SPÖ men, then her successors, Mrs Mertel, have really perished both in the outside effect, but, of course, in the interior and in the internal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] You just have to say that loud. The best evidence is women's desire. Since today's strange disguise and the whole taferls are of no use to you either, something very special has happened today and something that actually leads the entire SPÖ women's policy ad absurdum. If you walk around with taferls "All power to men," I wonder: What power do you mean? Do you think that the power of the SPÖ women, such as the former Minister of Women Prammer, for whom it seems to be important to be on the front line, is simply pushed back by a former Minister of Finance, Mr Edlinger? – We have today been given an excellent example of the "successful" – under quotation marks – SPÖ women's policy in their own ranks. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You may not have missed one either. In Burgenland there is a certain Mr. Peter Rezar – a state councillor. He is the councillor who also holds women's servants. SPÖ, of course! That's why I'm saying: You probably shouldn't have missed that. But this gentleman says something very reasonable. He sees the debate overturned. It is not crucial who makes women's policy, but how it is made. And that's where I have to say: There are also apparently very reasonable men in the ranks of SPÖ men. The knowledge of this is as follows: I believe that Herbert Haupt, as a social minister, will be as well represented as women's concerns in the future as he has so far done as social speakers. I can really sing a song from experience. – I am convinced that he will do well as a minister. It is also significant that, if you look at the letters on this subject, at least half of the readers are women, the Herbert Haupt as "Women's Minister" – under quotation marks – are very good opportunities that he expects to do better than his predecessors. However, I am also convinced that Herbert Haupt will continue to pursue free social policy: consistent, just and socially compatible, for men, women and children, for he is also a family minister. I know from years of cooperation with him that, on the one hand, he has the necessary sensitivity for these agendas, but on the other hand, on the other hand, he has the necessary standing capacity to enforce himself against the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Finance. And it will not be possible for a Mr Peter Pilz to put a rope in our ranks on this issue. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] A short while ago, one seems to want to make it a Causa FPÖ and even more like a "criminal case Jörg Haider". This is done by people like a Peter Pilz, who is himself deeply in this scandal. This is done by people of SPÖ, although these incidents happened at a time when the SPÖ was responsible for this ministry. If Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer and others of my previous speakers argue that the SPÖ has something to do with it, then I can only say: I hope that the preliminary surveys against the SPÖ will begin soon, because you will not be able by the SPÖ to carry out child-moving here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you already!]] That is why I look forward with great confidence and serenity to both of the forthcoming developments as Members of the government and Members of a government party.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8157	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8178	Dobar, then! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister for Justice! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Should I tell you something honestly? – The fact that Mr – so far a colleague – has become the prime minister of women is not my main problem. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Not mine either!]] I have observed the policy of this federal government in terms of women's affairs, women's policy over the last nine months, and I tell you that my main problem is that of the women's policy of this federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That the Prammer has slept her time as a woman minister!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my view, it is simply so that the fact that a man will be represented by women in the future is nothing but a coherent, logical, consistent continuation of what has been presented to us by this Federal Government over the past few months. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it is quite clear that the Minister of Women – and he has done so today – has done so extensively, Mrs Vice-Cancecian – is here in the National Council and, according to the experience of the past nine months, wants to make us aware that politics will now pay particular attention to the independence of women as one of the main objectives of the new Minister of Women. It's just absurd if you just look at what's happened in the last few months. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: In recent years!]] Is it promoting the independence of women, for example – I think Mrs Prammer has already mentioned it – that training unemployment benefit is simply deleted after karenz? Is this a measure to promote the independence of women? Is this also a measure to promote the independence of women if there is a stop in the provision of money for childcare facilities? Is that your understanding, Federal Minister for Women's Affairs Mag. Chief? Today, in what you have said here, you have completely been silent about the things that have happened in recent months. That's why it's not the problem for me that your person... He's not here now, Mr. Women's Minister. Too bad, I would have liked to see him. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Please don't have a gender depreciation!]] In almost ten years we have always delivered ourselves exclusively in the opposition word fighting or also given consent, now for the first time I would have opportunity to have it in my back, and now he is unfortunately not there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger in the direction of Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] For me, the fact that he is now taking over these agendas is really nothing but what has been clearly felt in recent months: The men tell the women where it's going. And now this is said from a man's mouth. Mrs. A. D. Sickl – I am really far from getting into the smell of being anti-female because I have already suffered enough from anti-female and sexism myself – in the last few months I think she has only given the impression that she was the voice tube of those in the Federal Government who have determined this line; a line with which nothing else is persecuted to further strengthen the dependence on women or to re-found it in areas where she has already been depleted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Main returns to the government bank.]] Now he's back, Minister of Women in! I have a crucial question to the Minister for Women. If it is true, as he does for those who do not know him as exactly as we do here, perhaps quite credible, namely that the independence of women is so great a concern for him, then – and now I am linked to his party leader and to the German Chancellor, who once again said several times today, should be measured by the words and not by the actions; the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has made this the credo of his entire time of government – an excellent opportunity to do so. There is, of course, a draft law here in the house which provides exactly that, namely to strengthen the dependence of women on men. This is the government proposal concerning the so-called common care. Federal Minister in! Your first act will probably now be that in your responsibility, which you see, namely to promote the independence of women, you are trying to modify this government template accordingly, so that the proposals made by the former Federal Government are not implemented. That, Minister of Women in, would be a consistent continuation of what you have said, namely that you are concerned about the independence of women. Actions instead of words! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister for Generations and also for Women's Affairs! Unfortunately, you have spent little time in your 15-minute statements on fundamental questions relating to concrete things. Words are too little – that is also said by the Federal Chancellor – the actions are important! Do it! Today you have the opportunity to hold the meeting long enough. Please tell us women, but also you, ladies and gentlemen here in the House, tell us all how you really mean it! An excellent opportunity, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Böhacker:...! That's incredible!]] This is a coherent continuation of your view of women's policy if a man is now making women's policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: If the word "if" wasn't "!]] This is – in terms of content – what we will not only observe, but we will also exhort you. You must not forget which party Mr. Mag. Head's coming. He comes from that giant here in the house where the proportion of women among parliamentarians is only one fifth of the group. Tell me honestly! Do you find it particularly convincing that a male women's minister here is now talking a lot about the independence of women and, at all events, whether men or women are women's interests, is it important to do so? Do you think it has a high credibility if one of the highest officials of a party, one of the oldest and closest confidants of the ex-Parteiob men – first short-term – are to represent women here? Where are the women who have the say here? – There are about ten out of 52 FPÖ delegates. Is that the understanding you have of how you present women, how you will give women opportunities, as you said yesterday in the press hour, the compatibility of career, profession, children and family, how you want to practice all of this? [[Abg. Dolinschek: These are the goals!]] How were your achievements in the past in those areas in which you could have been active? – I miss these completely. For this reason, I do not have the confidence that it will go beyond the words and end up in action. But please, every woman can still be surprised here. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is a far greater concern for me to say something about the German Chancellor's statements today on the subject of the top-level cowardry, on the subject of the crisis of democracy, which could occur. Federal Chancellor! You have talked several times about how important it is to clarify that you will do everything and it is essential to carry out information in these sensitive fields of sensitive data, and that justice is now at hand. – Mr Federal Chancellor, all of this is true, but it is new to me that justice has the task of investigating political dimensions of criminal cases. This is not at all the task of the judicial system, but the task of justice is to assess facts – not to assess political dimensions. That is why, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I have missed what is the logical consequence of your statements today and also that of the National Day – if you think them seriously and honestly – to say: Yes, please, let's do that! Let us do this in a parliamentary committee of inquiry! If we deal with all these accusations, let us examine – this word is already in the Terminus Examining Committee! – whether something is true of these accusations, yes or no! Why don't you do that, Federal Chancellor?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why do it? You don't have the logic, especially since the ÖVP, as I believe, has the most to fear? Or is it perhaps not that she has the most fear to fear, Mr. Federal Chancellor? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: The Federal Chancellor is not a Member!]] Do you fear so much that your perspectives and your dependence on the Freedom Party may be affected that this is the reason why you refuse your group or your party members to agree to this concern of setting up an investigation committee? I can't see any other motives. And all that you have said here – Enlightenment, investigation, please, yes, quickly, so as not to enlarge the crisis – would have zero credibility in this case, Federal Chancellor! That's what would interest me. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] And, Federal Chancellor, you still have a chance to do something for what I have missed so far, namely to set an initiative that at least those who have become victims learn that they have become victims. The Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Strasser, as I have taken out a newspaper article, has in this respect in general the wish to request the request to the House: Please, give me the opportunity, the competence, the empowerment, so that I can do it! Where is your initiative, Federal Chancellor, that this is possible? Don't you think it's a moral responsibility to follow the request that victims have the right to know at least that they are victims at all? These are the actions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which you can put instead of speaking to us with words, yes to pour out at a pace like the Vice-Chancellor! But I do not want to comment on her behaviour now, because what she has done here today was for me the negative image of women in politics. This way – I feel it, that is why it is not an assessment, but rather the reflection of my feeling – that what she has done today shows exactly that understanding of women's policy, which the ÖVP has, but above all, the FPÖ: It doesn't need a mission, no compulsion, so that Mrs. Vice Chancellor defends the "simple party member" Haider – she does it completely voluntarily! All of this you have already passed into flesh and blood so that it happens completely voluntarily! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Talk time!]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is what makes us women, our women in my group, and also, as I believe, women in the Socialist Group afraid when such examples of female politicians make school. That's not what we mean by: Take away the power of the men and take us into account the part that is due us, that is, half – and not anymore! I would be very satisfied with this, but with the Federal Chancellor, with the Minister of Women, with this vice chancellor, I see quite black for it. But you know, women are well known to be patient. We will also survive this Federal Chancellor, this Minister of Women and this Minister of Justice, who undoubtedly has the shortest political life in this Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8418	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8439	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I have followed this morning's debate, but I cannot see where logic is where women's issues can only be represented by women, with all the importance of women's issues and with all the importance of a certain symbolism. If you continue this logic, then youth topics could only represent a youth and seniority topics could only be a senior! However, ladies and gentlemen, it is the competence of the one who implements and his will to implement it. I therefore believe that the new Minister for Social Affairs has clearly earned a chance in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== February began to work, the opposition has since tried two lines. The first line is: If this government sets up activities, unemployment will rise. – As you know, it has already been mentioned today, the opposite is the case: The labour market is turning towards full employment. We have de facto the lowest unemployment rate for about 15 years! This is, and this has already been mentioned, especially a merit of employers, workers in this country, but I also think it is a fact that the economy of this country has confidence in the work of the government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] – Completely applauseable! With all the more force, as today's morning has shown, you fall to the second line: The government operates social reduction with its activities! – Hiezu führen They always provide case studies that are expected to happen once and for all – in principle, there is an example for everything – and in part, the social ratio must be maintained for this because it is not in the process of rising, but stagnated and therefore responsible for social reduction. Ladies and gentlemen! Right is – and you only need to read in the Wifo Monthly Report 10 this year – that the quota actually stagnates. However, it is also worth reading why it is stagnating, first of all because economic growth has increased significantly in recent years, and second, because, in all other European countries too, consolidation measures have led to the fact that the social rate remains the same or does not rise very strongly. That is why we have to take note of this consequence. As is quite well in the international field and have quite clearly to see: A social system must not only be future-proof and, of course, social, but also, Mr Ollinger, affordable! [[Abg. Oellinger: But you have claimed that we are top riders!]] And this component is more perceived by this government than in the previous 30 years. But it is also interesting to look at the structure of the social ratio: 38.2 per cent of all social expenditure goes to the area of old-age pensions, 10.3 per cent in the survivors' area, which together represents almost 50 per cent. What does that show us? . It shows us that the government is perfectly right in the area of pensions, but they are not likely to be enough, because it is another remarkable number, namely the 3.3 percentage points that we are above the European average in the area of old age insurance. So if it is not possible to cause more people to work in old age, the consequence is that we alone have a social rate of 20 percent in old age pensions in this area. That is why this path must continue! It must be clear that the second pillar of the pension system is being expanded, as is the third pillar, in terms of private provision. It must be tried that in our country not ten out of 100 people over 60 years of age are employed, but about half as in Sweden or in other countries, at least much more! In the context of the social rate, it is also interesting that only 5.6% are spent on the unemployment sector. I therefore see, Mr Social Minister, little room for manoeuvre in this regard. If there are abuses, for example in the case of seasonal kidneys, they should be stopped, but not so that they will also punish all others who expect an insurance system with performance and consideration. Mr Minister, we are expecting your support today, and we are also expecting it in the area of additional labour costs. There is a wonderful government agreement, including implementations for 2001. I ask you to do so. You're taking on this thing. It is about the competitiveness of farms! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Next point: They have, above all, referred to the merger of social security funds. – In principle, this is a very reasonable undertaking, but the combination itself cannot be the goal. In our opinion, it is necessary to first set the goal, strategy and then the structures. This may be a way for workers and employees to be successful, if there is now an approximation in the field of remuneration, but, for example, in the area of farmers and traders, there are some differences in contributions and benefits in terms of health insurance. And one should not happen in the implementation, namely that there is an overload in execution and quality losses. Therefore, step by step, in this way, I believe that the right path is the right one. There must be efficiency, there must be cost reductions, but quality must also be right. And, Minister, the financing problems of social security will not be solved at organisational level. There's more to it just in the sense of the whole. Ladies and gentlemen! The new government has started the turnaround. If we want to secure the social system in the previous quality, then we must move ahead and continue the necessary conversion. In this sense, I wish the new Minister of Social Affairs all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8500	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8521	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of his nomination to the Minister for Women, the Minister for Women, and as I quite rightly believe, spoke of a question of high symbolic strength. I share this assessment. He's not here right now. [[Federal Minister Mag. Head of the Bureau speaks to Abg. Dr. Bruckmann.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's already here!]] [[Call:Please look]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: Excuse me!]] [[Abg. Dr. One: (in the direction of the Federal Minister Mag. She didn't see you!]] But it doesn't matter, it's "only" about his place. In previous days it was common practice in politics that a woman was a woman's minister, but not just because of her sex, but because one wanted to occupy this position quite consciously with a representative of the women's movement, i.e. from that social movement, which, with much political energy, was committed to the expansion of women's rights, for the improvement of women in society. As you know, there is not only the social-democratic women's movement, but also the autonomous women's movement and there is also a bourgeois women's movement. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Has there been!]] – It was obvious, right! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer:... against reality!]] These different parts of the women's movement have always been in a very fruitful discussion process, and they have, although with different approaches and different steps, moved in the same direction. It would have been possible to make a woman from the bourgeois women's movement – if she still existed – a woman's minister in your government. However, since you are not a women's policy of independence, but rather the abolition of women's policy, you have decided on the right symbolic step, namely to appoint a man as the implementing body for the abolition of women's policy. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: such nonsense!]] They have adopted this path of the last 30 years. They're going the way to create new dependencies for women. If it comes from your series of accusations that over the last 30 years progress in women's policy has been too slow, then I must say that these are hypocritical crocodile tears that you are crying because the way was not least so tough because it had to be taken against your bitter resistance! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the important measures that could nevertheless be achieved step by step on this path for women today are part of the "heaviest" heritage that you want to reverse with your policy. You don't go the right way, maybe a little too slow, maybe a little too hesitant – no, you can't blame it –, you go back the way, at a fast pace! We have just recently discussed in Parliament the report on the differences in income between men and women, which are still too large. This report also clearly shows what steps need to be taken to reduce these differences in income. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: There has been this for 20 years!]] But you go quite consciously, step by step, that path that will lead to it – and after reading this report you cannot say that you did not know it – that income differences continue to grow and the situation of women in Austria continues to deteriorate. [[Abg. Steibl: What is the step in increasing income differences?]] You are discussing child care, i.e. an incentive for a longer career break – clearly a step that, according to this report, leads to an increase in income differences, you know! - That's very logical. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: That's not logical what you're saying!]] Maybe it's over. Their wealth to understand, but it is highly logical that a longer career break leads to a lower income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Explain this to me! I can't understand!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: It's detectable!]] - I'd like to explain it to you afterwards. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No! Now! You can't claim something illogical!]] – I'm talking about what I've done. The list is long, and I don't have that much time. They introduce tuition fees and thus worsen especially in low-income families that have daughters, the educational opportunities of women. There will again be a discussion in these families about whether the daughters need to study at all. They want to introduce the compulsorily common care after divorce, a measure that clearly reintroduces new dependencies – actually new old dependencies, because it used to be like that. You abolish the free co-insurance for those wives who have not put children in the world, which means a clear punishment for those women who live as it does not fit your picture. To sum up, I must say that the appointment of a man as a woman minister was a politically honest step: a man as a symbol of the end of an independent women's policy, Minister Head as a women's policy-absorbing minister! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer has today held a remarkablely strange beer tent, in which she embarrassingly avoided taking a position on those accusations that we would have liked to hear her statement about, namely, the serious accusations that the FPÖ’s leaders were involved in this peak scandal, which the whole country is discussing. [[Opposition to the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Call to the liberals:Facts on the table!]] But – facts on the table – in their speech and also in the speech of Mr. Klubobmann's Westenthaler, we have heard something very interesting, because they have plundered from the school of the RPÖ's reputational strategy; according to the words of Mr. Klubobmann's Westenthaler, a three-step programme: Misclaims, criminalization, abjection – I would say reputation murder. You've been running this strategy for years. It's your strategy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And please don't confuse with what's happening now. Now you don't shake the political opponent with anything, but people from your ranks have started to talk because they were no longer willing to carry this system. That's the point! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are very verbal when it comes to pouring others, but extremely sad when it comes to taking a position on criticism and against allegations you make about position. Your old partyman came up a few days ago – he is thinking about it differently from day to day! – for an investigation committee in this Causa. Although I am not quite aware of whether this is still his opinion today, I do not know how much his influence on his group is still to convince them, tell you at least: Today we will give you the opportunity to fulfill this wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8781	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8803	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Dear Deputy Chancellor! My two Federal Ministers! Government transformation is in itself nothing extraordinary, except to interpret it as the opposition parties in today's debate. There is a debate on a ministerial change in the women's ministry – but there is no ministerial change in the women's ministry, but a ministerial change in the Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations, which includes all the classes of population of Austria from the infant to the grandmother, from the infant to the grandpa. The Federal Minister is equally responsible for youth, families, pensioners and women, and I therefore do not understand this demand and the debate conducted at all. The next could call for a youth as a youth minister. Who, then, should represent the families, can argue about it – a man, a woman, a youth or a pensioner? We need a senior representative, too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Should we have the number of Ministries out? It is certainly not possible to talk about a savings effect in so many ministries. This debate is therefore totally empty. I am of the opinion of the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, unlike Mrs Kuntzl, that there should be no prejudices. The actions are to be measured – the new Minister of Social Affairs is due to him. In the past, the social sphere was dominated by men. Only three ladies have so far been ministers of social affairs: The first was at the time in the ÖVP Alone Government Mrs. Grete Rehor, later was colleague Hostasch, who also worked in our house, Social Minister, and then Dr. Sickl. Some time ago, a women's ministry was created. The first minister in this field was Mrs Dohnal, who actually had no own portfolio. After that, Mrs. Konrad – that half-threaded woman when the state was to order from above how many plates a man has to wash off a day, since it seems no longer possible to regulate that in the family itself, isn't it? In a family that works, it is self-regulatory. [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] And the last woman minister was the unhappy minister Prammer. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Half-half, you noticed that, that was impressive!]] I'll do this, Mr. Cot. The fact is that social democrats in all of the women's policy in these years have, in principle, failed to do anything, despite several women's ministers. I thank the former Federal Minister for Social Affairs Sickl from this point of view. She certainly didn't have it easy, they threw all the beatings you just found at her feet. It has, however, been very, very hard and, despite all this, has gone a long way, such as the pension reform. Pensions are now guaranteed beyond this legislative period. That is what Mrs Bundesminister Sickl has introduced and has also enforced, as well as a reform of the karenz money, with regard to which we are now well prepared. The child care allowance is in the final stage of the preparation. The new Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations Herbert Haupt will continue to do this so that it will be finished soon. There should no longer be any employment ban for the mother during the leave period, but the possibility of working alongside it. The limit of commitment must be increased so that there is a wide range to enable these young women to re-enter their careers. That is exactly what is at the heart of the matter. The new Social Minister Herbert Haupt as an experienced parliamentarian with the quality of the hand, who has the appropriate professional qualifications, has also said: The central point of this gender problem, the women theme, is the different income. There must be an approximation of incomes. There must be the possibility to make a career with partners and family or career without a partner. That must be the goal. There must also be a solution related to seasonal workers, a seasonal extension, a longer calculation period for seasonal workers. There cannot be a four-week waiting period for unemployment benefit without If and But if there is an agreed solution to the service relationship and in the case of temporary service contracts. I believe that the new Social Minister is a guarantee that certain hardships will be cut off and that there will be a common solution. The social partners need to wait to avoid prejudicing them with a definition here. Consumer protection and the pooling of social security institutions are also important topics for our new social ministers. The workers and employees today have the same social security law. We have put them there in legal terms, so why not put together the insurance institutions too? Finally, the following: The SPÖ has today tabled three motions for resolutions concerning irreplaceable deterioration in the area of unemployment insurance, the abolition of non-social sickness fees and the increase in the safety of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! We cannot support these requests today at this meeting because this afternoon the new Social Ministers will be negotiating these points with the social partners. He does not exclude anyone from talking to the social partners. The new Social Minister will be measured by his actions, as the President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation has said. And that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8862	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8884	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! It is also possible to take knowledge from a debate like this. The first recognition is that speaking time agreements that we decide here are obviously only valid for as long as television is present, after which speaking time agreements appear to be no longer applicable. It does not matter, either, if one does not follow the speaking times that one has previously agreed. It's just like that. The second recognition I take home from this debate is: Prejudices and pre-emptions are permitted only to certain persons. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have acted decisively against pre-condemnifications. I would have had a word from you to the address of the Minister for Justice, who had also done a special prejudgment by referring to Mr Haider in the direction of Mr Haider. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Doctor Haider!]] This person is exalted over all suspicions! – Is that not a prejudicial statement, or is that the Minister of Justice may say so because he is a minister of justice? Could it be that pre-conceptions are only acceptable if they are made by a minister of justice and a party attorney, or do they apply to other persons? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Chancellor! They did not think that they could qualify this statement by the Minister of Justice as unacceptable, so now the judges and prosecutors who are concerned about their profession must express and do so. As "not acceptable", the President of the Richter Association, Mrs. Helige, referred to the statement by Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer that Jörg Haider was superior to all suspicions. Mr. Federal Chancellor, who are you now taking protection: the judges, the prosecutors or the Minister of Justice? Which side are you on? – It is clear that You must choose one of these two statements. May the Minister of Justice do what the people are denied, perhaps even by means of a complaint from the Böhmdorfer/Gheneff firm, if someone is quickly condemned or judged? Third point: I have heard that a committee of inquiry has not been told because we are still at the stage of judicial investigations, and a committee of inquiry would be something like a pre-condemnification. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! I would like to remind you – I can still remember my speech here on the topic of "Euroteam": [[Abg. Grandruck: You're the only one!]] We have decided to set up a committee of inquiry, with the theme of "Euroteam" being taken as a key to the pre-conception of a whole ministry, namely the Ministry of Social Affairs. No one is present, except for the "Euroteam" Causa. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] You said: We want to investigate, because perhaps we insist that there is something problematic in the Social Ministry! . You have considered the establishment of a committee of inquiry to be correct, important and absolutely necessary before there is a court hearing before the Court of Auditors has drawn up its final report. But in this causa we have to wait for the sayings of the court. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's supposed to be the same measure? Do you know how to deal not only with criminal law, but also with the political practices here in this House? – You are as right to bend them as you need them, according to your desire, according to the desire of the majority, and this, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is not acceptable to us. I now come to you, Minister of Women, Minister of State, or whatever you want to be called. I have already noticed in the debate on the different incomes of men and women, which we held in this House a few weeks ago, with amazement that an argument by the liberal colleagues on the women's policy of the liberals was that they are seeking low electricity prices, low energy prices. Now that a man has been appointed a woman's minister, I realize what's meant by this: Clearly, this is about the statement: What is good for the Lord will also be good for the female! Something from this big cake will fall for the female even if only the gentlemen get enough of it. – This can be taken from this. I was rather alarmed, ladies and gentlemen, by the announcement of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said: We will continue to keep social policy in the centre! I was even more alarmed when it was continued that what was collected by the experts in the report on social security and taken as a basis for government decisions is only the beginning and that this is being continued. Therefore, Mr Social Minister, allow me to ask the following questions: Where to Do you continue in the context of this report on social security? Which is the next group you want to take away? Do you really want to take something away from the unemployed? I still have a question to ask you, Mr. Family Minister: I have heard with interest that the family policy of the liberals looks that way – this is a policy that is obviously intended to protect the "little people" – that one wants to look after the family of Mr. Jörg Haider in particular. I have therefore been following this with interest because there are enough examples from the past few years in which the Jörg Haider, who is no longer sitting here in Parliament, has presented individuals and their families. Finally, I would like to give you an example of how brutal the family policy of the liberals is and how little anyone has ever apologized for attacking and falsely slandering not only people but also the families. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me give you an example: No appearance in which Dr. N. doesn't appear. Last Tuesday, for example, at Vienna Mexicoplatz, that sounded like this in the original tone of Haider: In Salzburg, a director of the Landeskrankenkasse with 46 years after six weeks of health care goes loose into the early retirement and is so healthy that he can make every extreme sport so that he has some fatigues, because he has not had to do any effort during work anyway. – Quote Jörg Haider. Dr. N. was also in Vienna that day. He is now 50 years old and his leukemia disease requires intense therapy. Jörg Haider, who is referred to as a "core-healthed extreme sportsman" three times a day by Jörg Haider, is now also suffering from diabetes, cardiac arrhythmia and severe depression. At the beginning of his illness – and so on – Dr. N. tried to keep himself physically quite fit by playing tennis with his wife, she is a doctor, sometimes. Since February 1990, Mr. Dr. N. has been permanently retired. Mrs. Dr. N. is trying to keep all information about ridicule at FP election events away from the sick. This is family policy in a liberal way!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8971	The next speaker is Mr Kiss. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e8992	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to make a statement in my capacity as chairman of the so-called Stapo Committee, as we in the Stapo Committee meeting on 24 February. In October, the unanimous decision to withdraw confidentiality in relation to information was adopted. Mr Pilz mentioned five names at the previous meeting of the National Council in plenary in the context of a urgent question, names which, I expressly say, have not been included in the "Stapo Committee" meeting. I do not agree to issue this statement here and to report that the "Stapo Committee" has expressly removed confidentiality for this information. Now on the matter, ladies and gentlemen. The transfer of personal data is an issue that we have discussed intensively in plenary in recent weeks. However, we are not discussing them on the basis of facts, but, as I could see, on the basis of suspicions, assumptions, suspicions, allegations, whatever they may be expressed. I listened carefully to this House today, especially when Mr Gusenbauer took the floor. By the way, he did not say a single word on social issues, but this would be a good thing for the head of social democracy, since it is about the appointment of the new Minister of Social Affairs. He spoke exclusively about the transfer of personal data, about the alleged data abuse affair. It was Gusenbauer who, as well as being the Grand Master of Pre-condemnification, appeared here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is he?]] [[Abg. Platter: He's not here!]] Gusenbauer as Grand Master of the Inquisition. Gusenbauer as the grandmaster of those who put suspicions into the room and never speak of facts. Furthermore, once again after his speech he is not present in the plenary room, but that is what we are used to anyway. Now I could say again: He probably "champagnerizes" somewhere. - I'll take it back, he's not. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's where he's sitting!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] He listens in the last bank. We have heard of him nothing but suspicions, allegations, presumptions, and for me no new fact has come to the table, neither in terms of the Ministry of the Interior, nor in terms of the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] I do not want to say in my capacity as chairman of the Stapo Committee that no information from this committee has always been provided to the public. That's why it's correct that Gusenbauer couldn't say anything. But he didn't talk about hot air for 15 minutes. - That's Gusenbauer! This is a brand of social democracy! – No, you want to distract from the misery of your political responsibility in this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Grabner: The prosecutor will be raised!]] You want to distract from the misery of your political responsibility – if I take those years alone, from 1993 to 1999, when the SPÖ ministers called Lösnak, Eins and Schlögl. [[Abg. Reheis: Why then do you oppose the investigation committee?]] [[Abg. Jäger:... Investigation Committee!]] It's like our Mr. Klubobmann said to Dr. Khol: With his citation of what Karl Schlögl has said to the APA, he has proved that Schlögl has done nothing in the matter, has done nothing to anyone, Lösnak has done nothing, but that it has not been done any more and no less about the fact that under the Social Democracy things that are unworthy of a rule of law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Investigation Committee, clear case!]] It is thanks to the Minister of the Interior, together with Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, that light comes into the dark on this matter. Dr. Strasser immediately set up a special commission on the appearance of first conjectures. It has provided this special commission, both in terms of personnel and technical and financial matters, with absolute and non-profit-making equipment. Minister of Justice Dr. Böhmdorfer did not give a hint in this matter. The Advocate General has also confirmed this to the APA today. From these two facts, namely here the Minister of the Interior, since 4. In February, the Minister of Justice, who also carries out his duties in a way that is in accordance with the rule of law, I can only conclude: The SPÖ has a lot to hide. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] It is the SPÖ that in the past has caused exactly the system that is to be condemned here today, and we will fight for the fight against this system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Among other things, Strasser has already acted with the appointment of an expert team, a committee of experts. It will deal, among other things, with the following questions: How do we do this with the EKIS queries? How does it look with access to data and with data backup? With this committee of experts, we will do exactly what the citizens of this country expect of us, from the Federal Government, from the two parliamentary parties that form the government: Security for individuals, protection against abuses. These abuses have undoubtedly been committed by socialists in the past.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9151	The next speaker was Mr Caspar.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9197	I do not think you need to buy books from your group, you can't read them anyway. - But I'll come back to that. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Mr President. Minister of Justice! Mr Sozialminister! Minister of Women in! May I perhaps begin by briefly referring to the comments made by Mr Kiss, who, if I see correctly, has also left the hall after his speech – ah, there he is; [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You have an disturbed relationship with the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy that I can still see you – to enter. I find it remarkable that you are just saying that among the socialist interior ministers things have been torn apart that are now worth resolving. Can you remember what you did to the Kurds Act when you got it? [[Abg. Kiss: Forwarded to the Public Prosecutor's Office!]] Skill You remember who gave it to you and why you got it? I can remember why you got him: Because he was illegally played out to you by an official of the Ministry of the Interior, and you spent weeks doing so politically. But now you stand here as a great moralist. You're ashamed of yourself, deputies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! But it's a different question today. It is a matter of drawing attention to the new head of the Social Minister, and I would first like to address the main part of my remarks. The designation of the name of Mag. I'm not the only one who has caused negative associations. But, ladies and gentlemen, what he has said since then is suitable to nourish serious doubts about whether or not power. Head of the right person for this place of business, the right person for this task, the right person for people and especially for women in this country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We'll stand it!]] Minister Chief! They come back from the European Women's Council, and the only thing you think about it is that you say that the female element has to be strengthened, the female element in politics needs to be strengthened. What do you mean, Minister? – Of course, he doesn’t listen. Let me tell you what is to be understood by your party's policy! A woman in top positions of politics can you imagine, the FPÖ can only imagine when it comes to keeping the place open for your "leader" or keeping it warm. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the method that has in itself been practiced during the First World War. This was the first chance for women to be able to take over leadership while their husbands, as they were then called, were in the field. Today Jörg Haider stands in Carinthia, and a woman is allowed to keep his position warm in Vienna. That's your party's view of how women can take top positions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The FPÖ brings Ms. Sickl as a Minister for Social Affairs. The Federal Chancellor continues to claim from the government bank how successful it has been. – And then drop her. Then disassemble them, send them home: Disassembly of the only woman in the Federal Government with a great deal of work. – This is your relationship to women’s policy, to women in top positions of politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the liberals! In the middle of the campaign, in the middle of the Styrian elections, the state councillor Bleckmann, who is not only pregnant, has also just become a widow – and doesn't think anything about it at all! That is your dealings with women in politics in top positions! And here you step out and want to be a model. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And then you also send Mrs. Zierler to Styria, and in reality you also heat her, since it is obvious that she has no special restraint in the Styrian Freedom Party. This is policy for women, as you understand them, and that is not the policy we understand them. [[New congratulations to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Minister of Women in! You must bear in mind what your party stands for, and your statement that the female element in politics must be reinforced sounds threatening, threatening to women. Women, Minister, are not flowers that can make politics look a little more friendly. Women have an independent right and they are entitled to be taken seriously by men in this respect. And that's the minimum I'd like to ask of you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But not only in women's policy have you said one thing or another since your fishing observation, which is a thoughtful one. They have also made statements in social policy. They have announced that they want to negotiate the hardships in the social package. Minister! This is exactly the kind of shame that this government is working with, and you have a great example in it. At first, this federal government has significantly worsened the civil service, and the civilians have begun "excerpts". Then the Minister of the Interior has acted and has declared that he will now take an initiative to shorten the duration of the civil service. – Of course, enthusiasm on the part of those concerned. Then Mr Scheibner went on and said: That is not at all possible! He's always been in the same position in that. And at the end, nothing happened, it remained that way. The civil servants are "graussed" and you have presented us with a theater that is pathetic. And you want to perform the same theatre again. Mr Minister, please spare us this show battle! If you want to solve the problem, which is that you don't want to pay four weeks for workers with temporary employment, if they are unemployed, then solve it and talk about it afterwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Also the discussion about the amount of commitment you want from chosen parents is a game with the hopes of those affected. What is the benefit of a worker’s family when the income limit for merit is particularly high? – This is a welcome that only helps those who have good income. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Minister! Take care that there is a right to part-time leave! The women have something of that, of which the families have something. That would be a goal that you can attach to the flags. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] High house! In his statement, the Federal Chancellor also referred to the FPÖ spicing action. He has explained among other things that he trusts the independent Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer with an independent investigation by the Justice, on the grounds that this is natural. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You're talking like you've been in the opposition for 30 years, not in the government!]] Deputies! Listen, it's useful to you too! So: Because it is natural, he commits it to the Minister of Justice. Federal Chancellor! If that's natural, then what's your explanation for? Just to make it clear that you do not want to hear the content of the accusation that you are not interested in dealing with the content? You say that the Minister of Justice will make this independent, because it is natural anyway. Mr Bundeskanzler – even if You're not there anymore – open your eyes! Look what's going on in front of your eyes! I'll finish. Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, who is not here, has tried as an "ultimative opponent". My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You should really wish that was the last blow, because it was a full blow into the water. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If he can't even read the book he calls on to make the "ultimative counterbeat", then don't call me, I should read something. At least you can't read, otherwise you could at least bring the "ultimative counterbeat" in such a way that it is in harmony with the book you call upon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you complain here of how badly the opposition is said to be, how badly in particular the Social Democrats – you of course like to say "socialists" – deal with you, especially with your party chairman Haider, and when you say how cruelly pre-conception and human hatred is done here: I have once had an opportunity to remind you of what has really happened here in recent years. Mr Oellinger has already spoken to the local healthcare staff N. today. This was a case where for months you've been making politics on the bubbling of a pedigree – and you've never apologized for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And the same can be said in a whole series of other cases. I was certainly one who was repeatedly confronted with accusations from the first series of Mr Stadler or also from Mr Haider, which, in part, were not to be overcome by ridicule, but of course were committed to cutting off my honor. The claim that I was in Zwettl for a drug crime in the port: Was that something you wanted to trust me so to complete my experience, or was that an accusation that should make me despicable in the public? – It was a "Schmarr'n", just as a "Schmarr'n" as the accusation of Mr. Westenthaler now. The prison in which I was supposed to be sitting has been detained, and finally, before I became a criminal. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – Bad research as with many liberal accusations – but have you ever apologized? [[Abg. Oils: But no! Exalted over all suspicions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to continue rolling out this issue; I came up with a whole series of examples. But you have no reason – on the pages of the Freeman, and on some points also you on the side of the ÖVP – to speak especially moralinsauer here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have to apologise for the things you have accused us of, for allegations that have been made without a reason and without a basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9424	Mr Böhmdorfer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9445	Mr President. Mr Mag. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is the day of the Minister Mag. The main thing – and I congratulate you on listening carefully – is that so many compliments have been made to you by all the parties that confirm your competence, but I would like to address some issues that concern me and are presented in a way that I would like to express quite clearly my indignation about them. I think that if you raise allegations or suspicions, you should deal more with facts and not be content with mere suspicions that have no background or substance at all. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This data abuse affair is certainly a difficult and delicate subject. It has a constitutional aspect, it has a data protection aspect, it has a criminal aspect and it has other aspects, including legal aspects. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the Green Group, have clearly missed the opportunity to make an inventory analysis and make proposals in a high level, constructive discussion. What you've done was raise allegations that are unstoppable. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It started with the accusation by Dr. Gusenbauer, who at 10.36 am – I wrote in it; then it was just too much because the accusations remained the same, but otherwise did not differ – said that I had submitted illegal files. - Please, Dr. Gusenbauer, call one. I don't want to apologize because I know you can't. You are psychological, mentally unable to apologise, you just raise too many false accusations. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's great, this schoolmastery!]] Please call an illegal act that I have presented! [[Abg. Reheis: This is immense, Minister! Shame!]] It is immense to say here that I have presented illegal files! - I didn't do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You said at 10.43 a.m.: Böhmdorfer seems to be in the deep itself. – Please mention a reason for this! Please mention a reason for this! And so it went on with other statements and similar accusations. Seven illegal Stapo-acts mentioned Dr. Pilz – no one he could call. No one was used, of course. You have been criminalizing a proper professional exercise done by me five years ago. A lawyer has the duty to present all the evidence he receives to court. That – and only that! – I did. [[Abg. Edlinger: Without checking her?]] Only if I had been involved in the procurement of evidence that is supple could you make me a disciplinary accusation. – But this too has now been clarified by sending out the Bar Association that this accusation cannot be made to me. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who got the files?]] – Mrs. Dr. Petrovic, I'll be right there. – And you now know that the client has explained in this procedure that he has received the evidence from a journalist. So also... – You ask him yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Which one?]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: A yes! But he doesn't answer!]] So, of course, I was not involved in the procurement. You also need to know – and you have lawyers and lawyers in your ranks – that these photos, which you have so criminalized today, always appear in files that are provided that can be copied that can become public. It is not unusual for a lawyer to present photos – no matter what – at all. And it was not right, therefore, that Mr Van der Bellen meant that I would not have fulfilled my professional obligations properly. I can only tell you: I have fulfilled my professional obligations properly. There's nothing to dispute here. It is not even theoretically possible that I might have committed a criminal offence here. There are not the slightest claims in this direction. - That's one thing. As to the right of guidance: Please note at last that I have made it clear in this case by exempting the prosecutors from the law that I will not intervene, unless this would serve to accelerate. That must, I believe, be in your best interests, too. And if I read a broadcast by Dr. Kostelka here, it will reveal the whole error - I say it positively - to which you are subject. They say in today's broadcast: "The law of the Minister of Justice would mean that he could have averted criminal investigations, did not carry out house searches, did not open accounts, did not question witnesses, said Kostelka. The reporting obligation could mean that Böhmdorfer is informed of any procedure in which he himself is involved and that he has been “prepared” in a forthcoming house search.” - Quote. It's incredible! You know, Dr. Kostelka, that the law of order within the meaning of § 26 of the Public Prosecutor's Act since 1986 regulates that it must be granted in writing. You know that illegal instructions – and you are only talking about illegal instructions here – would not and should not have been carried out, and you know that a conscientious examination is provided for that even the prosecutor, who would violate his conscience, would not have to carry out this instruction. But keep this to the public. Please make this clear immediately! It's inconceivable that you acted wrong here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to comment on the claim that I have somehow created a prejudice. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not man enough to make that clear!]] I quote, because yesterday in the ORF in the programme "Subject" did not happen completely, the entire interview-passage. The journalist asks me: You said a few days ago that Jörg Haider did not need to get illegal data on political competitors. Do you believe – you think; he asks me in my opinion – that Jörg Haider is superior to any suspicion? I'm replying: From my point of view – that is, as far as I could observe what I believe – he is superior to every suspicion. This does not mean, however, that I will in any way intervene in the investigations or want to influence them. The fact is that I represented him as a lawyer for 15 years and was witness to the fact that the population like no one else has lost him, that he is really willing to break up the structures in this country, introduce improvements and much more. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And this was the point for many to provide him with unsolicited information. In any case, I have not had the slightest indication that he would have had it necessary to obtain data through any active comments or actions. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you know that?]] – That’s the full text. Now tell me the difference if the prosecutor's pointless, if I had said something else! You can't ask me to throw any civil court overboard. I know everyone here knows I'm friends with Haider. And yet I have explained that I am first of all friends with him, and second of all, we should find out how to do it. There's no difference at all, whether I'm friends with him or not. But I didn't just throw this friendship overboard just because there are pre-examinations against him. I don't think you can really blame me.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9653	Mrs Dr Petrovic spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9675	Mr President. I would suggest that the short-presidials taken into consideration at 3.30 p.m. should be kept in mind right now, because I find it to be highly outrageous to the President-in-Office of the Social Democratic Group that he is mentally and mentally - even if you find this very funny - unable to take certain actions after the remote diagnosis of the "sick brains" of some journalists has just reached us from Carinthia. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Defendant! Petrovic on the jump to SPÖ!]] Before this practice, members of the opposition or journalists agree to the mental health, I'm looking for a school now, and I'm trying to discuss it quickly in all forms.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9732	For business treatment: Mr Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9754	Mr President. High house! I see no reason at all to withdraw from the plan, which has also been agreed by the other club leaders, namely to hold a short presidential meeting at 3.30 p.m. for other things, not because a representative of a club here refers to house rules and quotations, even if she has someone in her own ranks who compared this House with the Miloševic regime a few days ago. [[Call the Greens: Not this house!]] That's why it doesn't matter to me, because as long as you didn't say that you compared this house to Miloševic methods, you're not allowed to do any more originals here. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: No, that's wrong!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9816	For business treatment: Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9837	Mr President. There are the exercises of this house according to the ban of polemics from the government bank. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Since when did this happen?]] But apart from that, a minister is also subject to the Rules of Procedure and to the possibility of calling for an order. I call, in all formal openness, for an order for Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer, who spoke in an insult to the SPÖ president of the club. It's a terrible thing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! Just because you always say the untruth!]] In addition, I am also seeking to hold the President-in-Office immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9895	Ladies and gentlemen! I have now received a whole series of suggestions. I can only say that with regard to today's sitting there are also some other issues for me, which are quite worthy, in the next presidential, but in the ordinary – thus a short-präsidial today – to be dealt with, for example, the question of the follow-up of orders by the President during the presidency of the Second President today, the question of the permanent intervocation, the question of the proper application of the principle "on the matter" and certainly also the question of polemics from the Government Bank. I would like to present these four topics as a subject at the next presidential meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And the untruths of the socialist clubman!]] [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: Mr President! I have tabled an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. You can't go beyond that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This application is done!]] I did not understand this request as a request. If you would please put it out again, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e9962	Mr President. It seems that some of the Members of the Rules of Procedure are not so powerful as to know that amendments for the Rules of Procedure do not need to be submitted in writing. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you must be able to formulate!]] But I like to repeat what I said. Mr President. At the beginning of his remarks, the Federal Minister for Justice found it necessary to insult Dr. Gusenbauer in a sustainable way. It is unbearable to go beyond that, and I am seeking to suspect that with a call for order, and without delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10015	Now I realize what you wanted to do. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Kostelka is a clubman and still does not know himself!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You know that in the last meetings, it was practical not to give calls for order, even in matters and statements that were considered to be well-ordered in previous meetings, and that we agreed to discuss in the presidential procedure and to work to ensure that such statements do not happen. In this sense, I am the President of the European Parliament who will take up your suggestion or your request and will bring this matter to the next presidency. [[Abg. Mr Kostelka: I ask for a decision, Mr President!]] I said it: I do not manage the award of calls for orders according to the practice of the last meetings unless we have done so at previous meetings. If we want to return to a system in which orders are constantly issued, I think it is worth discussing in the next presidential, and therefore I will bring this issue into the same way. That's all that's to be said. [[Abg. Dr Kostelka: Rules of Procedure!]] On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Khol, and then Mr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10088	Mr President. I refer to § 103 GOG and the comments. Requests for a call on the matter or order are therefore not requests for business treatment within the meaning of § 59, and the decision on such a request is solely for the President. A decision of the National Council on this is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10124	For business treatment: Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10146	Mr President. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to § 103 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is very likely to require such a call for order. [[Call the ÖVP:No, no!]] I actually did. And the question I have to ask you, Mr President, is: Do you really want to delay the decision on a matter of order until it can no longer be granted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after deliberations in the Bureau? Is that your intention?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10188	Mr Kostelka! I assume that you are well aware of the Rules of Procedure, that the legal situation for you is not new, and that you have not required any extra clarification by Mr Khol. That is why I have also understood your request or your request as what it is to be your right to make such a suggestion. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Desire!]] It is equally well known to you that it is the President's right or duty to take care of the order in the session, and that, in the agreement of the Presidents, especially between the President Fischer and me, we are currently doing so, that even if a case exists, in which previous calls for orders have been issued, there is no calling for order, but that we are trying to learn an exercise that is about to happen, not to act with respites, punishments and calls for orders. And I will continue to handle it that way. That means I'm going to talk about it. More can be said in the present case from my waiting point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: That means at a time when an order call is no longer possible!]] The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10279	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kostelka, it was a very embarrassing appearance that you have just given here. First, Mrs Petrovic has to tell you when you're upset as a clubman. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I don't know!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you even know what you're talking about?]] In addition, as a clubman, a embarrassing fauxpas happens to you in application of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, Mr. Klubobmann Khol. He will, of course, also provide you with the Rules of Procedure to study so that you can read this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Kostelka) Begüsser Pudel!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group! By the way, it is probably the good right of Mr Böhmdorfer, who, for days and weeks, is accused by you and drawn by the dirt to which the honor is tried to cut off here, that he asks for an excuse for incorrect claims and facts. And if you are unable to do so, then you cannot blame us, but then you should think about your understanding of democracy and the rule of law. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I have no appreciation for this Minister of Justice! And I'm going to be able to say that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to return to the real issue of today's debate. As a youth speaker, I would like to start by thanking Dr. Elisabeth Sicklbeken. It has enabled, implemented and implemented many important reforms, especially for youth, reforms, especially for the future of our country. For the first time we will have a legal youth representation, a legal youth representation as a representative of the youth, which is equal in addition to the representatives of the interests of workers, employers, pensioners and others and which can really serve as a voice tube for the youth. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] It has implemented a pension reform which provides for long-term measures to correct the failure of SPÖ ministers over the last decades and ensure that pensions will continue to be secured in the future and that there will be a prospect for young people in the future. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why has she been abandoned?]] Ladies and gentlemen! This good policy will continue Herbert Haupt. He's competent, he's careful, he's a man of real social conscience. I am pleased that he has called here today for a basic consensus on social policy, because I believe that social policy should be an area of policy that should be taken across party borders. He'll do that, and he'll just stand for it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why was she exchanged?]] But it is also significant to see what accusations you are making in this debate. The only criticism you can make in this social debate is that a man is supposed to be women's minister, and Her only "argument" is obviously the keyword "Mr. Women's Minister". Yes, please, your titulations are just too scurry! If this is your only argument, people will see that you are in fact not interested in a policy of matters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If you look at the situation of women today, you can see that there is a real need for improvement, because the women's ministers of the Socialist Party have been unable to implement necessary reforms in this area for years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also symptomatic who from your page is here to speak and argues these women's politically relevant points. It is not your former women's minister Prammer, who is primarily speaking here: It is Mr Gusenbauer, it is Mr Edlinger, and it is only at the end of the day that Mrs Prammer is allowed to make a few comments. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have no interest in an objective policy! We took note of this once again. Mr. Minister Head will be a good minister. He will be a generation minister, for all people: from infant to big, whether male or female. He'll do his thing well. I wish him luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10437	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10480	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the new Minister for Social Affairs should be presented. Well, that's how it was done. It is not possible for me to make my contribution here if the Minister is not even in the room. And I think if he is already a new social minister from today, he would have at least... – Whether he was there all the time or not is not the question. [[Abg. Achatz: He was here all the time!]] I too have been here all the time and am not a Minister of Social Affairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it is important for the Minister of Social Affairs to know what others think about him and what they expect from him, it is the minimum requirement that he attend this meeting. Mr President! I propose that the Minister return to the hall. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Half the Green Group is not here!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But it is not in the government!]] We Greens know what we expect from our Minister for Social Affairs – and he should know too!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10548	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Federal Minister has only left the hall in the short term and is already sitting on the government bank again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10575	Mr Westenthaler! I don't discuss the kindergarten with you. I just don't do that, and I have my good reason for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your series!]] Be glad I don't, because I want to save you here! I'm coming to the essentials now. I thought that insults such as "psychic", "mental" could not be able to put such actions into this House of the past. But it turns out more and more that the past is catching up with us – and for this you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are substantially responsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] But I would now like to come to our Minister for Women. It is already significant: If you listen to the speeches from the representatives of the government parties, you can see that there are actually three groups of people for you: the men, the women and the sexless. For example, they speak only of the disabled and only of the unemployed. But that there are situations of men and women behind that, that's no longer a subject for you. And that's very significant. If you say on television that you have the competence to represent women, and this is justified by you cleaning your Vienna apartment yourself, I ask myself, Minister: What role do you have of women if this is to be your qualification for this office?- Oh, my God! This also shows very clearly the importance of women in this society. This, in turn, shows very clearly that you do not want to have the right of self-determination of women and therefore also the right of women to represent themselves here in this House, and that you, with your appointment as Minister of Women, have now abandoned the fact that women represent their rights themselves and do not allow themselves to be represented by men. I was hoping that's history. I thought, Mr Minister, that we no longer need to discuss this in this Parliament and have overcome it, but it is something else. Minister! I would now like to come to an area that you will be represented in the future: the policy for disabled people in Austria. Mr Minister, I am surprised that you have never been articulated in this group of people since you took office, except when it comes to the so-called disability billions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Today, Mrs. Haidlmayr! Today!]] I was afraid, and Mr. Feurstein confirmed it in the press – for the first time we have this black on white – that you want to do exactly what we feared disabled people in Austria with these funds. This is true now because you want to put this money in protected workshops, although you know very well that the people in these working conditions are neither pension insurance nor health insurance nor unemployment insurance, that is, have no right to social security insurance and have to work around a few thousand schilling or some even a few hundred shillings a month. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: Protected jobs, Mrs. Haidlmayr!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Protected jobs, non-protected workshops! That's a difference!]] Minister! However, you have always used – and I have to help you do so – to make a big change in the area of care money. You, Mr Minister, have made a request - I have brought it with you - that it was always your demand, the demand of the liberals and the Greens that the care allowance should be valorised, that there should be care money from the point of view of the disability and that this pocket money harvesting, as your group rightly calls it, should be reversed for those affected. These are your demands, which you have always represented, which you can also read. Minister! I shall put forward a motion for a resolution today, and you and your group of governments can prove whether you are still behind these demands or whether you have adopted the demands of disabled people now that you are ministers. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This, Mr Minister, is your own request, which I am submitting today, because I supported it at the time. I would ask you to keep the interests of disabled people with your party, with your federal government, and to continue to represent these demands. You can prove today in this vote whether you are still standing to do so or whether you have now also adopted the policy for disabled people.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10712	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr is sufficiently supported, is in a material context and is therefore also under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10737	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I expect the Social Minister Herbert Haupt, presented to the National Council today, to continue the social policy we have formulated in the Government Convention, in the Coalition Agreement of the January of this year, a social policy that is needs-oriented, efficiency-oriented and wants to bring people out of dependence wherever possible, and to support their own capacity. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] In this sense, the first implementations of the pension reform were certainly a real step, not through more stress on the workers, but through more work, to secure pension benefits. In this connection, I would also not like to thank Elisabeth Sickl, the Deputy Minister of Social Affairs, who did not take on any easy task and, above all, had no easy takeover. The handover of a ministry in the form of a urgent request, which is submitted before someone has been presented as a minister, has indeed been a unique process in the history of this Republic. I also expect the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt to continue his family policy consistently, and I have the feeling that he once mentioned that context, therup, that the pensions, the safeguarding of generations, are also provided by the natural benefits of the families, is fully in his perspective. For this reason too, it is important that the promise given by all of us, with 1. In January 2002, the new form of care allowance will also be implemented for all those who introduce child care allowances. I believe, in addition to the financial aspect, and in addition to the fact that it is available to everyone, it is also an important matter and matter to consider in the future the education and care of young children not as a special form of unemployment, but as an independent activity for which there is an independent institution, namely that of child money with corresponding limits of merit, for those who work to remain mature for the job. Our support will be provided by the Minister of Social Affairs Herbert Haupt and the Minister of Family Herbert Haupt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee on Justice, however, I would also like to take the opportunity to say two sentences about Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer. In my view, the rule of law remains incomprehensible to me that a lawyer, who takes his lawyer's office seriously, then makes it an accusation and does not want to qualify him as the Minister of Justice. To be a good lawyer in a civilized rule of law cannot be a reason to be a minister of justice! In my opinion, the rule of law is an excellent condition for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One more sentence, ladies and gentlemen, which was discussed by the judges in public last week. I take violence so seriously for my person that it would never happen to me – and I would not expect it from a minister – to consider, as a legislator, who should be chairman of the judiciary. [[Abg. Silhavy: We know your ideas!]] But sharing violence and respect for this is not a one-way street. I think it's up to this house and only this house to decide who's enjoying his trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10795	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10817	Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Justice – I do not see him anymore, but he will have an opportunity to listen somewhere; of course, it is a possibility to listen by speaker – the Minister of Justice has meant that he has the right to express his outrage from the government bank in a polemic way, as the Vice-Cancellor has also done today in a longer part-session speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you, too, that we have the right to express our outrage when we hear constantly, sounded that a preliminary investigation has already been initiated against 21 liberals, a pre-examination. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A pre-examination – that's a difference!]] We are therefore simply dealing with a minister of justice, against which every minute pre-examinations by the prosecutor, can be initiated by the investigating judge. On the other hand, the law of the Minister of Justice is directed to the prosecutors to file surveys. We therefore have to deal with a Minister of Justice who, in public opinion, questions his opinion about the opinion as Minister of Justice – this cannot be separated: Private person and Minister of Justice – put his hand in the fire for Jörg Haider. And this, although all of us, including the Minister of Justice, are familiar with the statement made by Jörg Haider, which was repeated yesterday on the subject, namely that he, Haider, was able to get every act over everyone. The Minister of Justice, as a lawyer, saw no reason to examine the evidence submitted to him. He had to do with a very honorable clientele who, of course, only presented neat and loud documents and evidence. And in just as good an honorable society is the Minister of Justice, if he has nothing else to do but insult our clubman from the government bank and tell him that he is "psychically unable and mentally unable to take a certain action. In view of this statement, I must ask him to take this action himself. That this is a special concern of the Freedom Party to judge the mental and mental situation of others is also evident today in the release of Jörg Haider, who says that the top coward was born in the "sick brains of some journalists". – So much for the honorable society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is happening here under the chairmanship of the Second and Third Presidents will not contribute to calming down here in the House. Mr President. If an application for a call for order according to § 103 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, this shall be spoken subsequently at the end of the sitting or at the beginning of the next sitting. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He doesn't have to do it!]] This is stated in § 103 para. 2 GOOD! Do you think I can't read? I read it again to you, maybe you need more time to understand a paragraph, a paragraph. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But the decision is reserved to the President!]] ==References== On November 16th, an ordinary President will take place, and on November 16th. We want to discuss the issue of order call to our chair of the leading negotiator in November. ==References====External links== Mr Böhmdorfer gave a call for order on November – possibly or not, but perhaps – but perhaps – Mr. Böhmdorfer. But it will be unnecessary, Mr President, on 22 February. November to give a call for order, because until then things will be done! A content comment: Minister Chief! In your comments, you first addressed family policy. I've been wondering for some time, if there's a family minister at all. Family policy was subordinated to social policy, was a part of social policy, good, but it was precisely your party, the FPÖ, and also the ÖVP that always warned the loudest. 32 speakers have needed it until Mr Tancsits has said something about family policy. Their comments on family policy were limited to two points: You said the babysitting money would come for everyone. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: And what did you say constructively?]] And you've expressed your concern for Haider and his family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Calls at the ÖVP.]] – These were your contributions to family policy! You said we should remember that politicians also have family. I ask you: Has Mr. Haider ever thought that private people he throws with dirt, whom he defames, against whom he has a human hatred, have families? Think of the Doralt lie! Haider claimed: A man – Mr. Doralt – in the dark circle of scandalous brothers and criminals. This has gone on for years. Haider, for example, claimed that a school director lost his position because of drunkenness in class. – All of this has been disproved. Haider claimed that the artist Heller's work was based solely on his father's hatred because he was accused of Nazi collaboration. - All of it disproved! He also claimed that a 46-year-old director of the regional health insurance fund would go to the early retirement. The person concerned was clearly suffering from leukemia. Has anyone ever apologized for that? Did anyone ever think about their families in such statements about individuals that I could continue? - No! You never thought of the families! But we ask you to share your concern for Mr. Haider's family. Mr Sozialminister! I agree that you have social competence; They are long enough social speakers of the FPÖ. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] I don't know if you have female competence, I don't know if you have health competence, and I don't know if you have family competence, because what you have said about "family" is too little to talk about family competence. The "Small Newspaper" will be right – last Thursday she will find the subtitles: "Herbert Haupt "threats" to take office. In fact, there are only two options, Mr. Minister: Either You have something to tell the population in your interventions and deletions, or you really dream. You say you want to promote farm kindergartens. – What if there is no money in the budget? I give you the right, Minister: There's only "threat," because the funding instrument "Kindergarten millions" no longer exists! I wonder whether the proposals are thought through or whether there is a system behind them. I'll tell you: There is a system behind it, for strangely, the interests of women and a modern family policy are always on the way! That's what it says in a saying: Who gives one hand, and the other hand takes. But in this Federal Government, it does not give a hand, it only wavers with any promises, for example with the childcare allowance for the year 2002 or later. But it's going to be trashed today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we have to expect from this package, we can read about the development in Carinthia. From a children's check over 6 000 S per month for each child is left: Within a family, only one child is paid. That's what your colleague Reichhold says. Would you like to have the broadcast? It's left in Carinthia from the kids' check! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Finally, I would like to ask you to: Don't speculate about meeting security if you want to be a good social and family minister. Your remark to want to think about the reliability of care providers has already brought thousands of people, hardly that you have said it, together. In order to achieve confidence, you need to explore, observe, shine, sharpen all – but that is what you do – in order to be able to meet accurately. Treffsicherheit is just a prelude to justice.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e10973	Before I give the floor to Mr Dr Alois Pumberger, I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mr Ilse Mertel because she referred to me personally. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is certainly not always very easy and easy to take care of the corresponding order in this House on the one hand and, on the other hand, to let a free debate run full. And it certainly turns out that once the one side and once the other side feel that it might be too short. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The One Page Never! It was always the other side!]] That may be the case with you today. At the last meeting, it was a government party that, when Mrs Petrovic was standing here at the speaker's desk, vehemently filed a call for order. It should also happen that Members are missing something. I am thinking only of the last sitting, as you yourself have accused, because I did not immediately give Mr Pilz the floor to the actual correction, but rather – unlike the others – only at the end of the debate. This had a reason most of them also noticed, which obviously only you had missed, namely: Mr Pilz has signed up, but then left the room and was not present at the call, so that I simply put his word at the end of the debate. I therefore ask that, when considering the Presidency, we should also take into account our own selective attention, which can occur there or there – I say now. Next item is the report by Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11012	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Mertel has at least so far been the only one of the Social Democrats to deal with social policy. However, with her criticism of the new Social Minister, she is completely alone, because even the trade union can respect him and his projects. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What did I say? Didn't you listen to me again? Has that exceeded your capacity?]] But let's go, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say: Data security, data protection, all of us, and if there is abuse in this respect, then this must be immediately clarified – not only from today or tomorrow, but also from the past 30 years! [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] For 30 years the SPÖ has held all key positions on data protection. They occupied the Ministry of the Interior, Minister of the Interior Lösnak, Minister of the Interior One and all of them, and you didn't do anything. For 30 years there have been rumors and also proven cases of data abuse in Austria, but has never been traded. As your favorite coalition partner – the Greens – is misguided, you can see the two separate applications for the setting up of an investigation committee. If Mr Pilz claims that the responsibility of the Federal Minister for the Interior for the transmission of data should be examined, then this does not mean that the SPÖ, because the request of Mr Gusenbauer does not contain exactly this request. – It could not only be the current Minister of the Interior, but it could also be affected by former ministers of the Interior. That will probably be the case, because why would you have your legitimate fear, which will cause you to reject this request from the Greens?Unknown term type: "%s".? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Because of the choice of words – because I hear that you are now so sensitive – because of "mental position" and so on your clubman: He himself lets the current Federal Chancellor judge over the media, which would be of senses. Member of the Pilz – especially not in the hall – creates a connex at all and says: The veterinarian Gaugg becomes a woman's minister! [[Call the SPÖ: Head!]] That's from the old clothes collection. The veterinarian's chief becomes a woman's minister. Mr Pilz! Do you know what Konnex is? Make you here? – You buy that women are placed on a level with animals. Deputy Pilz! It is high time you apologize to the women both in this room and throughout Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are debating the appointment of the new Minister for Social Affairs. We would have expected all the representatives of the opposition parties, but also the government parties, to be very keen to learn what the Minister of Social Affairs has to do with what plans he has. The clubman of the Social Democrats did not ask a question about this at all, but focused only on the data affair in his statements. There are so many questions and so many positive approaches that the Minister of Social Affairs has already announced. He has made the women an offer for fair and comprehensive cooperation. I would make use of this offer in your place, because the socialist ex-wife minister – she is from Upper Austria, just like me, and if I ask someone today: Well, what do you know about the Prammer? Yeah, she was a minister, but which one, unfortunately, I don't know anymore! – did not leave any impressions on the part of Austrian women. She's been asleep in her office for years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You know that as a man!]] – Yes, I know that as a man. Speaking of man. Mr. Federal Minister in, Federal Minister for Social Affairs, Minister for Women in – I would never fall asleep in such comical statements. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I believe that!]] I would never say "Women's wife" or to Mrs. Pittermann, would she become a Social Minister, "Mr. Pitterfrau". Never would I say anything like that! Your funny connexe can leave you. If you cannot make more constructive contributions to the debate, it is better if you are silent: Si tacuisses, philosophers menisses! - A wise saying! Mr Sozialminister! I think it's a "mortem" work in front of you. There's a lot of work waiting for you. But I am convinced that the majority of this House has so much social understanding that it will support you in this work. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That would be even more beautiful if your majority would not support him!]] I believe that the majority in this Chamber, the majority of the Austrian National Council, has so much awareness of a constructive social policy for our future, for women, children and seniors and will implement your proposals in a parliamentary manner. I'm looking forward to it. Our support is yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11139	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that I now have the wish of all the political groups to hold a joint debate on the two requests for the setting up of a committee of inquiry, first of all with a speech time of 10 minutes and then a speaker per club with a speaking time of 5 minutes. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed in this way. The next speaker was Mrs Reitsamer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11177	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Shortly after government reform became known, the first report from the Minister of State was that he wanted to negotiate hard. I have, of course, seen this as very positive. But on the other hand, I wondered what this meant. After all, he was at the end of the negotiations on the FP-VP governance programme, although – as he said – he was only in the preparatory rounds. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know how such negotiations take place. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Where was the call about the previous packages? I think you are very, very competent, I have known you for quite a long time, and we have worked well together in the committee, but I have to ask you: How do you want to master this walk: On the one hand, you are a leading representative of the party of the "little man", the "little woman", and on the other hand you are very loyal to your simple party member, and in the press you also say you want to negotiate a social balance now!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Well, we already have the unsocial security. – On the other hand, you should be loyal to this government, the coalition is considered stable and the cooperation is very pleasing. – Mr President, you have to explain this to me. What we Socialists have always criticised, namely that the area of work is located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but you did address this yesterday with quite a bit of concern in the "press hour". They said that Holstein for ex-minister Dr. Sickl would have been charged with her beardstone agendas. I don't know if ÖVP as your government partner has been so happy to hear that! It also came up again and again, Bartenstein would have pulled Sickl over the table. Of course, the objectives of the resorts are different, but especially now when negotiating the four-week unemployment barrier – and it is not that it only affects employees in tourism or in the construction industry, I am thinking above all of all about all representations – you have a very close negotiating framework. And all of us are full of memory: If your predecessor just looked at approaches to more social justice, she'd been pruned back immediately, it said immediately: The package is not tied up! I would now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is only the unemployment insurance sector. Mr. Federal Minister. Of course, it sounds really social when you announce that you want to implement the experiences of the poverty conference – but that as a member of a government that has done nothing but carry out all the measures from the bottom to the top, and those who earn little, or even those with medium incomes, have just taken away the "bags". This is your interpretation of social security: "We're all meeting socially weak, but they're safe for that!" Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister will be measured by his actions. The words are very promising, but I cannot imagine how they will be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As regards the 2000 pension reform, you said that you would be satisfied with the measures. Perhaps that's why you were satisfied because they no longer met you, because, as I could see, the wife of the "Mrs. Women's Minister in" is already in retirement. Perhaps that's why you're not taking these measures anymore. The fact that you no longer see any need for action in this legislative period may calm us forward, but in the direction of harmonising pension systems, despite all the horrors, nothing has come out if you look at the budget figures. Pension adjustment: 0.8 percent – so recommended –, balance: 0.7 percent. I wonder, What do you say to the large pensioners' organizations if they still want to negotiate something, because it is required to compensate at least the inflation rate of 3 percent? There you can be excited. You have no room in the budget, as you have seen. On this occasion, Mr Minister, I would also like to remind you that the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations, according to § 447g of the ASVG, is actually a reporting obligation until the 1. On 1 October the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. That is why it would be very important to know this because you have also spoken about the separation of spare time and contribution time in the pension system. Will you also negotiate the hardships with the accident pensioners and with the non-contributory co-insurance of childless partners? – Minister of State! When I think about a district in my federal state, about the Lungau, where the men are commuters who have no work, rent at most a few rooms and only now get into the system about the insurance of small employees, I have to say that is too late for many. If you still demand co-insurance to the pensioners, you will punish the poorest of the poor again. You are, despite your professional competence, as I mean, no alternative, because you take your announcements seriously, you can't implement the government program you've been negotiating, and do something to meet our expectations, then come to Clinch with your simple party member! And what that means is that the elections in the Styria have shown quite precisely. I noticed something else, Mr Federal Minister, which concerns the legal retirement age and the different approaches of men and women – that is, as we all know, by 2013 and is then to be gradually adjusted –: They have said that this federal government does not have a constitutional majority thanks to God. You don't trust your own party, do you not trust the coalition partner? You voted against this measure at the time. If you address and are very much committed to the protection of trust and life planning for women today, then do you honor it, but where was the protection of trust in the 2000 pension reform? – Your statement allows you to conclude that you are somewhat relieved of an even greater space: from the expert with the social conscience to the representative of the government course. Federal Minister! You are described as being competent everywhere, and I know it's you, too. That is why I also wonder what you said yesterday about compulsory insurance. They want to have scientific research into whether the insurance obligation is better. A symposium took place in Salzburg, and the examples from Switzerland and Germany were clearly described. The summary of this event was a major commitment to compulsory insurance. Mrs Sickl also knew that, and she said very positively about it. – Maybe that was also a reason for their redundancies! You said today that we had been angry with Mrs Ex-Minister. It should look your own party in the mirror: first another millioneur image campaign, then the release – this is also a wonderful match with the savings course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you want to renegotiate all the hardships, you won't have time for new tasks, Minister of State. And if today Mr. Feurstein has said that you know what you want, then I can only say: That's right, it won't help you. Instead of becoming a socially competent person as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs, it would be better to take the world champion in the turn, because he will perhaps create this giant pace. You can only be sorry!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11298	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Reitsamer, Comrades and comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker, Mrs Mag, spoke. Pecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11323	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! High house! The worst thing I have heard today on the subject of women came from a green politician, a very profiled green politician, whom I have thought to be quite serious. She said in front of running TV cameras:... "no child had – bad luck"! "Hop or drop!" Such a thing is polemic from the speaker's desk, and of course this is only a matter of course – television has still been transmitted, it was just before 1 p.m., I looked exactly at the clock – that the women who have watched this broadcast have the feeling that this government is taking completely unfair measures that burden women, which are completely unfair, or I don't know what. The opposite is the case! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is correct that Mrs Petrovic, who is unfortunately not present, should have said that in doing so, in her loose speech, "it was wrong!", "Hope or drop!"that is to eliminate and replace the free co-insurance of women who have been there for decades by an insurance to a favored rate, by self-care, a self-insurance with a favored rate. Nor has it said that the current regulation is basically carried along by all those women who are at home and who are caring for and cannot or do not want to earn children because they have to or want to care for children. And, of course, she did not say that, basically, those women who are at home who do not care for children could be employed and therefore of course have an insurance. But it's quite clear: There are quite different standards for Mrs Petrovic in front of current television cameras! - Amazing. I learned to do that. I also have to say, I can't recognize her sense of justice either. If she finds it fairer that women who are at home and care for their children are insured and that others have to pay themselves, so to speak, then I really don't understand their sense of justice. But that in recent years we have had numerous marketing Gags on the topic of women, unfortunately, has always been a reality for me. We had the theme "half-and-half" which was a beautiful marketing gag. You talk about half-and-half in the household and you haven't moved anything. The fact is that the men have made fun of this marketing-gag and exactly the opposite has been achieved, namely that they have helped less in the household. The fact is that the situation of women working in the household has not changed at all. The second marketing gag in the past, which I remember, was for me the women's popular desire. How easy it is to get 600 000 voices when I wish you something! play and distribute sugar. I am thinking of the demand for 15 000 s of minimum income, I am thinking of the demand for a longer retention period for companies, and I am thinking of the claim for legal entitlement to part-time. All these are things that burden businesses, but also the budget – and that in a situation where we have 2 200 billion schilling debts. I find such a popular survey for ours. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that even the SPÖ has not taken the implementation seriously. At the same time, when she asked for an additional burden on the economic location on the basis of this population survey, Minister Edlinger said that it was important to relieve the economic location and, above all, to reduce the additional labour costs. How does such a popular desire deal with it? – Not at all, ladies and gentlemen! If I look at Mrs Prammer's 1999 budget proposal, I have to say that it is not just a matter of women in it, but also a long search until we find the small budget. 37 million schilling can be found on the topic "Women", more than it was in the final effect. In my opinion, the Federal Chancellor's Office was not the right place to represent women's interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Prammer.]] Finally: Wearing ties is nothing but a marketing gag. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A bad one!]] - A bad one. Everyone was bad. This government does not make marketing Gags. This government is setting up measures to secure the future of our country. It would be much easier to put marketing Gags! It's practical to wish you something! to play! The population is sure to be happy with it. I am glad that women's interests are located in the Ministry of Social Affairs, which also has to deal with the concerns of children and pensioners, because many women's problems are related to children and care for older people. For women in this country, not the staged marketing gangs, but the measures that improve their situation and those of their children will count.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11386	The next speaker was Mrs Pittermann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11408	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not understand your excitement about the title "Mr. Women's Minister in" because for centuries women have always been addressed with "woman", but with the male form of the title. When you turned to the female form, it was said that it was a double femaleization. I have always addressed the women with the female and the men with the male form, and I also intend to keep that up. But I really don't see an insult in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: We already!]] It may be that you think women are inferior beings, I trust you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: If I were to say, Mrs. Pittermann, what would you say?]] In this context, I can only quote one article from the "standard": The women are the natural, the men are just a gene infection because the Y chromosome brings less genetic information than the X chromosome. – That is why we are quite superior to men with two X chromosomes. Take note of this! It's not sexism. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is sexism!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is sexism!]] – Lord God once again, but you have little confidence in your masculinity that you are even so irritable. That's it! But you must be insecure as a man! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What else do you want to do to me? I'm beginning to fear!]] My predecessor spoke about co-insurance. It was about non-contributory co-insurance in health insurance, which for years has been one of the largest family and social benefits of social insurance, but which is also associated with high costs. That's what the childless women have been excluded from. We have resisted it. These 850 million schillings are not intended for social security, but for the Minister of Finance, and that is unfair at all, but we are in favour of them. Either there is a non-contributory co-insurance for non-working or not. Within nine months of the start of government, the second ministerial change will take place with the larger government party, the junior partner – perhaps a third one too soon. The half-life is reduced. Did you just appoint Dr. Sickl to distance herself from her as a scapegoat? – The most child-friendly family government broke a minister with children. There's a second one. There's a scam of redemption. The star ministers are childless DINKs – double income, no kids – whose wardrobes burst and enjoy the expensive foreign vacations. You don't have to take care of children. Minister! They insist on child care. If a councillor gets a child, she'll be muttered. Children require use and are a savings bank – not only in the age in which you touring pedophiles with their nude posters. [[Call the ÖVP: Please!]] I miss this generosity for children at ambulance fees and the significantly increased recipe fee that meets single parents and poorers in particular. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You did not write this speech yourself, because in reality you are not so polemic!]] Apprenticeship protection has been deteriorated, young people have to work until 23:00, criminal regulations are tightened, study fees are introduced to eliminate social security, and you are trying to animated women to maternity with child care money and high merit. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That can't be yours!]] Federal Minister! Are you really convinced of child care money, or are you acting out of party loyalty? – This money wasted from ideology is missing. You can hear of plans for higher school fees. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is unworthy of a doctor what you say!]] Mrs Landesratin Haubner has protested against the ambulance fee because she recognizes its cruelty and insanity and recognises ambulatory as a cornerstone in the health system. Are you holding on to this fee? No free choice of doctors for the ambulatory patients – this is perfectly safe against the poor. The destruction of social insurance collectives makes it extortionable for medical claims. That is why President Pjeta so vehemently demanded this fee. Forcibly, a good system – 9th place in the WHO ranking – is to be destroyed, and compulsory insurance is abolished. After Holland, the death aid is released in Switzerland, as one could read, for old people without their own homes. The last year of life, which is most expensive for health care, will be shortened. There is an insurance obligation. Funding problems are solved through human intrepid death aid. In the United States and Great Britain, people die without timely access to therapy. England is a model example of how a well-functioning health system was destroyed from the start of government thatcher. Now to the hospital's ambulance charges: To this day there are no instructions. The chaos is preprogrammed. Are all ambulance patients to report to the main association or only those who have to pay a fee? What about those who are not safe? ==References====External links== August? Who proves that an equivalent therapy could not be reached extramurally? The cost of personnel and postal services is huge, the insured are insecure, possible revenue is minimal. The patients of § 26 HG are not identical to those of § 135 ASVG. Does hepatitis C sacrifice have to pay for liver transplants, study patients for the ambulance visit? Is quality assurance possible without studies? What about patients in post-care ambulances? Does a single parent who fears her child have to pay if an emergency is excluded in the ambulance? What about patients who have been transferred by the specialist? We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] According to the Medical Chamber, there is an extensive medical law and ASVG novelle. Use these to remove the health tax! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Prevent the taxation of accident pensions, employers' liability insurance, hepatitis C victims, this reduces the curable income. The government agreed to make a contribution and led the health insurance companies out. Self-retaining is heartless, unsocial, complex, anti-health and safe from weaker. Employers' contributions have been reduced, administrative tasks increased, insoluble savings targets have been set, and it is claimed that the social security deficit has been reduced. Change that! Federal Minister! You know that expensive medicines for still incurable diseases are pushing on the market. Create the prerequisites that all those affected will be relieved and healed, not just the rich. 23 health insurances are too much for you, you sympathize with the insurance obligation. The smaller Switzerland has over 100 institutes. The ten times larger Germany has over 450. – Objective advice always depends on the client’s wishes, because you want more advice. If you do not cancel the ambulance fees, at least reduce the social security contribution to hospital financing; the benefit will be outsourced. In Parliament's debates, do you defend the non-social security, the cold, the contempt for human beings and the desoliarization – for your own conviction or for loyalty to the EIA? – The signature of Mrs Landesratin and statements of your former party observer confirmed the latter. Even if we are far from each other in a worldly way, I appreciate your knowledge and commitment. Without prejudice, we will measure you by your actions as Minister. They have the expertise to go a social path: to protect the weaker, to prevent the breakdown of social security and to de-olidarisation and redistribution from bottom to top. I wish you every success, Minister of State, on reforms against these grievances of government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11599	The motion for a resolution by Dr. Pittermann and the comrades is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Staffaneller spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11623	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister of State on the Government Bank! High house! Ms. Federal Minister Sickl had an imaginable bad start as Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations. The shock in the SPÖ, the current opposition party, was deep. The Ministry of Social Affairs was fixed in the hands of the Social Democratic Party until a short break. There was practically an inheritance lease, with the Socialist trade unionist group always calling on the Minister for Social Affairs. A free social minister must not exist, that cannot be. A 100 percent influence in the social resort was unimaginable, as was the 100 percent influence in the women's resort. [[Abg. Rider: Who threw them out: us or you?]] They have fought Mrs. Sickl with unfair means from the beginning. They did not even give her the opportunity to work out. Mrs. Sickl has nevertheless done a very good job. [[Abg. Rider: Who shot them out?]] It has been able to have success, such as the pension reform, the equality of workers and employees in the event of illness and much more; all this is known to you. Now try the same game with Mr Mag. Main, with the new Minister for Social Security and Generations, and reduce the whole problem to women. They want to nail themselves. The only accusation you have made, Mr. Mag. It's not like he's a woman. You will be wrong, for Mr. Minister Head is an expert who will show it to you and show it to you. He will certainly do much more for women in a short time than the last Social Ministers did during your reign. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They're trying to startle fears in the population. You won't succeed. You yourself are afraid that there will now be too much insight into various processes during your time of government, especially as regards promotion. And there's really no harm when it's run through and things are seen the way they actually played. On the promotion operations: They themselves know that in many cases, Minister of the Social Affairs Hostasch has not been able to do anything because she simply had to implement the requirements of Mr Bundeskanzler Klima. This concerns, for example, the cessation of the promotion of the disabled. This has only been done so that one can say that no youth has remained uneducated in the election campaign without training. The bill didn't go up. Mrs Reitsamer, you meant a redistribution is taking place. Yes, there is currently a redistribution. There will also be a chance for the disabled with the "Millions of the disabled" in the future. During your time, during the last ten years, the number of disabled unemployed has increased by more than 100 percent to over 40,000. You have done nothing about it, you have set aside all the means of support during the campaign year. Success is the way it is now. The use of these "embarrassed billions" will make sense in the future, and this will be done by Mr. Haupt. There will also be an appropriate evaluation of the measures, and there will also be a corresponding controlling. . I wish the Minister all the right for his duties.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11680	The next speaker was Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11701	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With the appointment of Mag. Herbert Head of the Social Minister shows the blue-black coalition a high level of social attitude. How else can it be explained that a politician, ÖVP-Klubobmann Khol in January 1996, has agreed on the necessary democratic competence for the office of the Third President of the National Council, four years later, can be appointed Minister? – Today we heard a change of opinion from Klubobmann Khol, just as it has been the case over the last few weeks and months. But we come to the person of Minister Mag. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Well read! You weren't there yet!]] It is undisputed that you, Minister, have contributed to the entire social reduction of this blue-black coalition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If, in yesterday's 'press hour', you have spoken about necessary post-negotiations with Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein, who, on the basis of his experience in government during the negotiations, drew on the table, you have to explain to us why you, Mr. Federal Minister, did not act more vehemently as the spokesperson of the FPÖ against these non-social measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The party that pretended to make policy for the so-called little man is exposed. They run a policy according to the motto of the liberals, but also of the Austrian People's Party: to take the poor and give to the rich. Perhaps your behaviour, Mr. Federal Minister, but also the fact that nervousness is increasing within the FPÖ when it comes to publicly voiced criticism of freedom of personnel decisions. What did you mean yesterday about the Fischl case? – Internally, he could have expressed his criticism of the chaotic conditions in the Styrian FPÖ; this was to be done publicly, but justified the withdrawal of all the party offices. – I ask you, Minister: Are you not afraid of such a democratic concept in your party? In connection with your appointment, two statements by Jörg Haider were remarkable. You said today that he was your intimate political companion, and he said he was going to observe your ministerial activity very closely. – A statement that cannot, of course, be regarded as a special proof of trust. Then the statement came from Carinthia: The new man in the Social Ministry will now make nails with heads in social policy. – I see that an analysis of the blue-black social policy so far is more than a dangerous threat. Wherever it was possible, this government has recklessly destroyed social achievements that have been tirelessly acquired in the last decades – with a load package, as the Austrian population in the Second Republic has never experienced. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As examples of all these monsterities, I would just like to recall the following: Tax increase by halving the amount of workers' retirement, higher inheritance and gift tax, increase in the prescription fee, reduction in the sickness allowance for the disabled, reduction in the allowance for the benefit of the healer, paid ambulance visits, increase in the daily allowance in the hospital, increase in the insurance tax on motor vehicles and so on. This list could be continued at any time. As a government coalition, you have to declare the unfrozenness that these measures do not take the stakeholders of small and medium-sized salaries. Your statements, in which you monotonize that two thirds of the population are not affected by this load package, can only be described as a pure cock. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! When you announce at the beginning of your government that FPÖ will again show its heart to the small people, and speak of the social security of certain measures, I must say that this has so far proved to be almost macabre: The only form of social security under the blue-black government was that with the load package you have hit the poorest, the weakest, but also the middle class in this country. If you want to pursue a credible social policy, you must take back the entire blue-black load package and also adopt plans aimed only at disassemblying social protection institutions. This includes, for example, the intention of bringing together the Austrian social security companies. A system that works excellently, is particularly customer-friendly, should only, because it is a thorn in this Federal Government that some ladies and gentlemen in this Federal Government are deliberately crushed. We will certainly not be watching social democrats doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister Chief! Unfortunately, she has hit the hard way of becoming a Minister of Social Affairs and Women in the most unsocial federal government ever in Austria. However, the compassion of us Social Democrats is limited, because you are the social spokesperson of the FPÖ and you are responsible for this load package. Minister Chief! From today on you will no longer be measured by beautiful, learned and not different speeches from the party line, but by your actions. Without wishing to slow down your euphoria of the first days, I can already guarantee you that you will probably fail in this task, because with the framework conditions created by the other members of the Coalition Government, a social minister cannot suffer any other fate at all. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] For this federal government, it would be even better to abolish the Social Ministry and remove the word "social" from its vocabulary because of its previous practice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This FPÖ-ÖVP government wants to divide Austria into poor and rich: in few rich and many poor. They chose the rich. Minister! Prove us the opposite with your future work. I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Because the Minister of Justice is currently present, a question to you, Minister of Justice: ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website Christian Jöllinger defends. You were deprived of the word because of improper conduct. They did not stick to it and were expelled from the hall. At the same time, you were deprived of the defense. As a result, I was recently informed, you sued the Republic of Austria for damages of 1 million Schilling. Is that true, or is that not?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11828	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dobnigg and Mr Genossins is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Ing has spoken. Schools. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11852	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm from the country, and there's a social network with us. This is not only what the state binds, but also what people offer to each other. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a network of mutual respect and help, it is living solidarity and very often also a network that lives on that we know what human dignity is. You could learn a lot from that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We plan on the countryside in long periods of time. If you want to become a farmer, you decide for life, and if you want to build a house, build a home, then you think about whether you want to stay there all your life. – That is, those who choose to do so also bring themselves into the village, into cohesion, help in social services, help with the fire brigade, also assist in the care of the old. He's just bringing himself in. It is very important for rural life in particular that there is such a thing that young people consciously choose to do so. A conscious decision for rural life, for agriculture, but also requires framework conditions, clear, predictable conditions – that is, conditions that one likes to comply with. For rural areas, what is decided for all of us in Europe, in Brussels, is at least as important as what is being said here as regards agricultural policy or rural development. At the moment, there are developments that you all have to be concerned about, because they are very difficult to plan for life in the countryside, in the village, in the farmers. I have to talk about it again; the sugar market regulation is under discussion. It is a dangerous issue because it is a cornerstone of rural life because it is a cornerstone of agricultural market regulation. [[Abg. Edler: You are for the free market!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Those who debate the sugar market regulations want to prevent milk quotas from continuing. Those who discuss this want to call the agricultural reform into question as a whole and ultimately put the sugar price into the hands of fewer multinational speculators. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! It is no coincidence that we, together with the workers, are piling to Mr Verzehnitsch in order to also ask him to stand up and play for this important rural issue. The issue of the survival of rural areas is not just about social policy, but it is important. We are glad that we have a Minister of Social Affairs who is competent, but I would like to draw the House's attention to this: We need a lot more so that we can fulfil our functions permanently, make our lives creative and stay with us and our old people in order to maintain the social system of rural regions, which is different from in the city. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me make one more comment: Today's day is about to end again. It was a beautiful day, at least what affected the sight of the ladies. I was very happy today in the morning about the ties that were on view. Some ladies said that it was very good, it was really charming, and it was nice to see how pleased Mr. Edlinger looked at "his" ladies all day. He obviously put all his old ties in place.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11940	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e11962	Mr President. Minister for Social Affairs and Generations! Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy and women's policy are currently directly linked to the government agreement between ÖVP and FPÖ. Looking back, it was the ÖVP that the SPÖ has repeatedly taken support measures for the Austrian families in recent times. I refer, for example, only to the family tax reform. In order to make good family policies and women's policies, it is necessary to create framework conditions, to make the family liveable and to improve the quality of life for all, namely mothers, fathers and children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – I also do not agree with the untruths announced in Graz by the SPÖ in newspapers. Mr. Federal Minister! As a recognised social expert with many years of parliamentary experience, you know how urgently it is necessary to define goals and subsequently set actions instead of words. I therefore seek to act quickly in some areas of forthcoming issues. As I have said, I would like to highlight some of them. The first is to allow the family more freedom of choice – that is, the rapid legal implementation of the childcare allowance as agreed in the government programme. Secondly, partnering, parenting and, consequently, mediation are important. It is important not only to support partner and parent advice financially, but also to pay attention to the ideal value in order to better solve family conflicts and problems. With regard to the extension of mediation – I would like to point out – it is urgently necessary to introduce quality criteria, in particular to bring about legal framework conditions so that no "wild growth" arises – under quotation marks. Thirdly, the agreement between the family and the profession. I am grateful that this is said again and again. I wish that what is already present is also supported and further developed. I think in terms of the appreciation of the most family and women-friendly initiatives in the federal states – for example, competition from women and family-friendly businesses at national, federal level – that there is also consensus at EU level. You can also force something positive and not only look at it from the negative side. To promote the flexibility of working time: In this respect, the SPÖ is now taking part. I would like to thank Mr Silhavy for seeing that new professions also need flexible working hours. I am also thinking of supporting equality between men and women at all levels. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – I always have to say something in my speech that I'm making you so nervous. But probably these are exactly the points in which we are successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] For the implementation of equal pay for equal work which has not yet been achieved: We of the ÖVP have at least achieved that a study has been conducted under Minister Bartenstein. A minimum standard of pay was also introduced with the realization of a minimum wage at full-time work. I would like to thank the Minister for saying that we have to see if the pension rights are paid separately. The farmers are an example of pension division. There have already been applications for this in the last period. Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, a wish from ours, from my side. I would like to see a good cooperation between the relevant Federal Ministries, perhaps even the composition of an expert commission, in particular of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Generations and Labour, so that the implementation of the concerns of women and family policy is made efficient and consistent in order to avoid creating gaps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] We expressly distance ourselves from a policy of black painting and panic, as it is constantly operated by the opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Addressed to the SPÖ: There is no step back in women's and family policies. Government parties will consistently continue to pursue women's and family policies. We will eliminate social injustices. [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] We will be strongly committed to harmonising work and family life, and we will allow freedom of choice and support equality at all levels. We will put action – words alone are not enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12063	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12084	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Little incense for the opposition, but some for the government parties, because this government has taken action under the motto "Rerule Austria". This means recognizing the challenges of time and looking for solutions to these challenges. This is particularly true of social policy. In the area of social policy, we are mainly concerned with ensuring systems and maintaining the sustainability of systems. They are always concerned with increasing contributions when problems have arisen in the room. We are concerned with increasing the reliability of the system. That's the little difference! Mrs. Silhavy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] No more debt! That is the currency of this federal government, and the population gives us the right. Your Mr. Obmann DDr. Schachner-Blazizek has shown the voters the red card. I've already told you: He got his "laughter" for it on the last Sunday. If you continue this way, you will find the same thing at the next National Council election. Please note! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[New call of the abg. Silhavy.]] This federal government has implemented things in the field of social policy that have been trying for many years for earlier federal governments: the approximation of workers – employees. We have set a milestone in the area of pension insurance. A lot has been started by Mrs. Sickl. I do not want to thank myself on behalf of my group for the work it has done, because this work has often been left unthankful. You haven't already given Mrs. Sickl to her. I can still recall the first parliamentary session when you urged the former Minister of State Hostasch to make a urgent request against a successor until she had tears in her eyes, for she knew it was unfair. [[Abg. Silhavy: But we didn't make the decision to exchange it!]] But I admit, as opposition, you didn't give yourself a chance to have a good time. It might have been smarter; You probably saved yourself some embarrassment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Just like the constant speech with "Mr. Social Minister in" Do you believe that this is particularly original? What do you want? You mean that? [[Abg. Silhavy: Mrs. Klasnic is also addressed with "Mr. Landeshuptmann"!]] - I'll come back to that. – Do you think that's true of the voters? If so, please continue along this path! – With the "electors" you have to say today, Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, I know that. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: At the election, perhaps already hen!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ women are particularly male today. I would just like to say that there is a competition with our ladies in the club. At each plenary session, the honourable Member is elected with the most tasteless tie. I can only say: Welcome to the club, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: 27 times it was Edlinger!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I should like to say one more thing, Mrs Silhavy: The Constitutional Legislator may indeed have been unable to imagine that sometime a woman will be "head of state" of a federal state. We in the Styria are very satisfied with this solution and very, very proud of the fact that in Styria a woman is "Chairman of the State". [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With Herbert Haupt, a competent man takes over the social resort, and we are delighted about this choice. The performance in the "press hour" alone has given us a little insight into his expertise, and I also believe that he enjoys reputation in the public. We are convinced that Herbert Haupt can continue the good tradition of the family minister Martin Bartenstein. I welcome his efforts, particularly as regards his willingness to talk about the solution to unemployment benefits, to find a social compensation. I am also pleased in the interests of the competitiveness of businesses that we will be able to address the issue of additional labour costs of a satisfactory solution during this legislative period. Ladies and gentlemen! Herbert Haupt takes over a difficult office, a difficult place. I am convinced that together with him – in the interests of the people of this country – we can successfully achieve those goals that he has set himself. I wish him all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12226	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12247	Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on the changeover to the government bank – I am particularly addressing the ladies of the Social Democrats – are: Ladies! You are openly expressing today that you believe that a man as a women's minister is by no means able to perceive women's affairs. I do not think that you are doing a good job with this – for one thing you are right to do. They are abstract in view of the opinion that a person is not suitable for a certain function in that country due to his gender. As far as I am informed, there is an equal treatment law, and this equal treatment law allows, of course, or even requires that for every position in that country everyone – no matter which sex! - in question. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Just these accusations, which you rightly raise, do not apply to yourself. This shows that you suffer from a very strange, selective perception. Ladies and gentlemen! Now the motion of censure brought against the Minister of Justice. I have to say – and I believe that everyone, including the Green and the Socialist Group, will be right for me – that this is a "plug-in" of a very special kind. In the way my colleague Van der Bellen has read this motion of censure, one could directly hear between the lines that he himself does not quite believe in what he is losing here. During the statements of the clubman Van der Bellen, I had an emotional statement to make, namely that I believed to this day that Van der Bellen was a serious politician. I would like to demonstrate my indignation as follows: Mr Van der Bellen! After Herzmanovsky-Orlando you have offered a dialogue or better two dialogues here. You said Minister Böhmdorfer would refer to the prosecutor and the prosecutor again refer to a Mr. Böhmdorfer, a lawyer, and you say that this is incompatible. – This argument is highly unreasonable. Unreasonably, because you yourself – I can present your press releases to you – have taken the view that what lawyer Böhmdorfer said over five years ago in the trial is not punishable. They themselves as opposition politicians say that the conduct of the then lawyer and now Minister Böhmdorfer was not punishable. In other words, you know exactly that Minister Böhmdorfer, as accused in his own case, never stands before the prosecutor and is consulted. - That's an unreasonable one. The second unreasonable thing is that you criticize him as a witness. Mr Van der Bellen! I would like to say to you: If this is to be incompatible – that someone is a minister of justice and should therefore not be able to declare witness in a preliminary procedure, in a pre-examination, – then you can shoot any Minister of Justice who serves in Austria. It is only the advertiser who needs to request the witness's consent to the minister's office, the prosecutor sends a charge to the minister, then by all means his position as a witness would not be compatible with his position as Minister of Justice. – That’s not how it can be done! You could shoot any minister out there. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: So what?]] Another thing – you say: Well, the prosecutor will now carry out the consultations, and the minister has made a positive assessment in favor of a friend. – What understanding do you have of the work of a lawyer? What understanding do you have of the function, of the personality of the Austrian prosecutors? [[Call the Greens:The Ministers!]] Faith You really are serious that if a minister is private – and that is what really granted to him – he is a friend and believes that he is superior to being influenced by a prosecutor in Austria to carry out the consultation or pre-examination in one direction or another? This is ridiculous, Mr President. [[Abg. Arbitrator: So private!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: That wasn't private!]] We know that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have a functioning prosecutor's office in Austria, we have a functioning Chief State Prosecutor's Office and a functioning Ministry of Justice. It's just ridiculous when you think that you can derive an incompatibility. I'd like to say something to you: The process, which is now being stepped wide, has been done – we all know – five years ago. At that time, Dr. Vana – I also read the "Falter" – appeared. Dr. Vana is a lawyer of the Greens, which says absolutely nothing; it is his good right to represent the Greens. At the time, he represented a former Green Mandatarin and another person from the green area. – No one has found anything for five years that a document has been presented. It took five years for Mr Vana to say to a reporter of the magazine "Falter" that this had not been done properly. – No ad at the Bar, no fines – nothing. But all of a sudden it's a scandal! Mr Van der Bellen! You can't make this clear to us here. I say something to you, especially in my capacity as a lawyer: I feel that this discussion on the submission or non-subsidy of evidence is wrong. I think this discussion is wrong in so far as it is actually going through the free lawyership and its powers. Let me give you an example, Mr Van der Bellen: If, in a divorce case, the husband who is willing to divorce shows his lawyer a letter that his wife has received from her lover, then the lawyer is of course bound to do so and is also entitled to submit this letter to court – possibly infringing the secret of the letter or not. We do not need to discuss this at all. The lawyer is not obliged to play the major inquisitor, but he has made every effort to help his client's right hand break through. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The analogy is limping!]] Mrs Lichtenberger! If you shake your head here, this shows a peculiar attitude towards the instruments of this rule of law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Your example has been a bit strange!]] We hope to agree on one question: that an independent, self-confident lawyership is necessary as a bearing pillar of our democracy. – We should agree on this. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to conclude by mentioning this – it has already been referred to –: Mrs. Rech, Vice-President of the Vienna Bar Association of Lawyers and Criminal Law Officer – she is one of Austria's most respected criminals – has said quite rightfully: Of course, it is in the benevolence or disposition of the lawyer to make use of the means of proof handed down to him; he must. The only reason he should not use is if he doubts the authenticity, so if it is a fake document. Of course, I am right that he should not present this. However, as you know very well, this has not happened in the present case. I'll finish. – What you have tried to construct here today – also with the help of the media – is no more than a storm in the water glass. Her motion for distrust has proved to be completely unsubstantiated and dissolved in itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12381	The next speaker was Mr Pistotnig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12403	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The debate today is an expression of envy. I acknowledge from the opposition parties that you are jealous of what this new government has put on its feet in eight months. Jealousy hurts, I know. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have not only covered pensions, but we have also had the lowest unemployment rate for many years, and above all the worker has been treated as the employee, to which you have spent decades, but which you have not brought together. I know one thing: The new Minister of Social Affairs Mag. Mainly, the child care money will be brought to the stage – complete – so that everyone can be satisfied. There will be a billion for invalids to reintegrate them into the world of work, and he will also bring about equality between women who have not achieved many women's ministers over the last few decades. Why should not a man – I wonder all afternoon – be able to represent the interests of a woman, ladies? If we admit to you that You can be equal to the men, then you will also admit to a man that he can represent your interests. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Have you ever listened? What do you want us to "stand up"?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: How far away from reality are you?]] Mrs Lichtenberger! If an entrepreneur has problems, he asks a non-competent person for advice so that it goes up again, because operating blindness is something that is not good – even in politics. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You admit something to women? That's not to be grasped!]] Mr Mag. Head as Minister of Social Affairs is a top man, and he will make it. He will do what many women as ministers did not do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: It is not to be grasped! Men admit something to women!]] Ladies and gentlemen from the left, red side! All day long, your speakers have told us what you have failed in the last 30 years and what you want to give us as good advice. I congratulate you very much! You would have had 30 years to fulfill all of this. If you had done that, you wouldn't have chosen the people either, then you would still be in the government today. I cannot understand the Green Members. With "bad" and "hat" your repertoire is already exhausted. Everything's bad that this government does, just what you're doing is good. – I just don’t understand why you do so little if you can only do good. I'll tell you something. Hatred has always been a bad counselor. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But you should write this in your master book!]] Forget the hatred and forget about it. She also asked the envy – this applies to both green and red. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Write this in your parent book!]] Get more constructive, even in your opposition work. This is a difficult work. You can bring in a lot of things, especially materiality, and you can also admit to the government what it really does. If you bring this together, you will be re-elected by the people, and then you will be able to rule again – even if it is only to be in 30 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12519	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12540	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Today's debate confirms to me what has become clear to me in the National Council in the last 12 months: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition are not always about the welfare of Austria, not always about the well-being of Austrian citizens. The objective of the opposition policy is apparently also to undermine democracy and the rule of law. Our Federal Minister Head has already pointed out the importance of the rule of law and fairness. The Constitution and the legal system are fundamental values that must be defended in the sense of Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These include, in particular, the protection of data security, the protection of the independence of justice and the protection of the presumption of innocence. Our Minister of Justice is a guarantee of legal certainty in the rule of law of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I am shocked at the fact that many ladies and gentlemen of the opposition and some media are trying to prevent our Minister of Justice from working. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oil: After that!]] The objective is apparently to establish in a functioning democracy the detour of a dictatorship of blackout anarchy. [[Call the Greens:Build!]] But be proud: You won't succeed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The government coalition is committed to the good of the voters and the good of Austria. The government coalition will not bow to the dictatorship of blackmail and the dictatorship of violence. The coalition will continue its successful work and prevent any form of anarchy for the benefit of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12606	The next speaker was Mr Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e12627	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen on the government bank! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! High house! [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: Vice chancellor! -In!]] Mr Krüger! Today, we have submitted a request for a Novelle Public Prosecutor's Act, by which the Minister of Justice should not be expelled from the government – it would be nice! – but what we have requested is that the law of law, the obligation to report to the Minister of Justice to the General Procurator – the head of the Procuratorship at the Supreme Court – be transferred if the Minister of Justice itself is subject to relevant investigations by his own authority, his own prosecutorship. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who do you want to shoot?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not a shooting squad!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Kostelka! Who do you want to shoot?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who would you like to shoot?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we want to prevent – and I think that's quite legitimate – is that the suspect's lawyer becomes the chief investigator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Minister! You have said apologies in your capacity as Federal Minister for Justice that you have the legal opportunity to obtain information that is at least made available to you, as a suspect, as an accused person, as an object, as an object of the activity of the public prosecutor and that would be helpful to you in this second function. You have apologised that you can prepare yourself for house searches in this way, refuse consent and prevent account openings. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! They have also claimed that every instruction in the public prosecutor's office needs to be written. Read in § 29 para. 1 of the Public Prosecutor's Act! That's exactly the opposite. In addition, they also claimed that only if there is illegality could the public prosecutor's office, the corresponding official of the prosecutor's office, of its own initiative, refuse to follow an order. He can only do this in criminal law, as you know, Federal Minister! However, they claimed it in the event of mere illegality. I may ask you in this connection, in § 30 para. 1 to 3 of the Public Prosecutor's Act. There are two options, Minister of State: Either you're a bad lawyer, or you've unwittingly said the untruth. What we want is that you're not chief investigators when you're being found out against you. That is absolutely a matter of course in every rule of law! I'm slowly thinking about why you're against it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You play prosecutors and judges! Prosecutors and judges! That's yours! Declarers and runners!]] Federal Minister! You have claimed from this government bank that in your writings you have never been based on acts of security administration. I have two scriptures from you here. ==References====External links== January 1996, in which you point out in this context – these are those pictures, ladies and gentlemen, which the Federal Minister for Passphotos held: [[The speaker shall keep a document with the appropriate illustrations up to date]] "Provide: accompanying copy of front and profile images". Federal Minister! How often have you been photographed for a pass in the profile? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But that's not enough, ladies and gentlemen! A page next reads in your phrase: "Prohibition: accumulating act KR 4328-F-89 of the Koat Favorite". – You never fell into an act of security administration? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Crashed?]] In this context, it goes on to say in your phrase: Proof: Surveys of the State Army Command for Lower Austria. Next paragraph: In addition, there is "extensive visual material" in the state police. The very best, ladies and gentlemen: ==References====External links== In July 1997 you even referred to a Federal Republican act, an act which at that time no longer existed in the Federal Republic of Germany, because it has already been sparsed due to the limitation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: In which "Bundesrepublic"?]] He no longer existed in the Federal Republic of Germany, but only in the ECIS, because he was an Austrian in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How do you know?]] They cite in this footnote a criminal act of the Amtgericht Berlin Tiergarten, document number 1-TLS-4/81 and 249CS-L-145/80. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: How do you know?]] So much for this, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Minister here in front of this House just a few hours ago claimed never to have referred to documents coming from the security administration in writings. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Where do you have the documents?]] Here's the evidence, ladies and gentlemen. If you ask me where I am from: very simple, with the agreement of the person concerned against whom this procedure was conducted, the publication of the leading magazine. [[Ah-Rufe at the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has simply said the untruth here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The devil we're gonna shave for what you're immersing!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In today's issue of the Standard newspaper, Federal Minister Strasser announced that he was willing to announce the names of those who had been misguided, if Parliament asked him to do so. I think we should give Mr Strasser the opportunity to do so. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at today's debate, one thing is clear: for you, the suspicion of innocence is the crutch that you have hustled through this debate today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What we demand of you is simply and simply that you acknowledge the facts. The facts are that you once again refused to prevent the Minister of Justice from shortening the procedure against yourself. What we demand in this context is the willingness of you to take part in preventing damage to justice, as requested by the President and the President of the Court of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of Justice! If you are not man enough – as it is so often your formulation – to draw the consequence of your own judicial apparatus, which the judges of this country demand of you, then we will make the appropriate requests that you can no longer harm the justice of that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Westenthaler's "ultimative counter-beat" is basically a collection of quotations that relativize themselves and were relativized in a television interview by the author himself, where that was not the case. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what we'll see!]] Mr Westenthaler! But what was real pre-condemning is that you have accused the prosecutors of this country of party-political games. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a monsterity to justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If there is a party in this country that has made pre-conception an element of its policy, it is with absolute certainty the liberals. In this connection, I can remind you of Professor Doralt, whom you have accused of developing into a building scandal that has never existed. I should like to remind you of insulting and untruthful statements made by a director of the Salzburg County Hospital. I can remind you that you have drawn a school director of alcoholism out of party political opportunity. That's the brand of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Vanner, Mr Krüger, but also Mr Federal Minister. Mr. Ofner said that the lawyer was his client's "foreign legionary". – I have to admit that this is a self-understanding of the attorney’s profession, as it is for me, but also for most lawyers in that country. Do you know why, Mr. Ofner? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I don't want to know! Don't put any value on it!]] Because the alien legion has the condition that there is no review of the pre-life and also the pre-punishment that each alien legionary will eventually get a new identity and that only according to the rules of the war law is acted. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who do you want to shoot out, colleague?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who do you want to shoot out, and where?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: How and where do you want to shoot someone? With what means?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can remind you, Mr Ofner, that there is also an § 9 of the Code of Law which requires you to respect all laws, including the Data Protection Act. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You should answer that once! Who do you want to shoot?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You won't come out there anymore!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You won't come out there anymore! Who do you want to shoot?]] Mr. Ofner! If you are so easily overcome, I can already ask you to choose seriously – to choose seriously between the profession of a lawyer and that of a consiglier of an honorable society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you're still talking for a few hours...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's scandalous! ...You'll be sorry!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, it is significant that commentators accuse you that you implement a totalitarian spirit in the politics you make. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You have it!]] Your only answer in this context is that you are talking about the sick brains of some journalists. Ladies and gentlemen! The suspicion is dense, and it is getting closer and closer. [[Abg. Haigermoser: You didn't say that! That was Mr Gusenbauer!]] No longer is the talk about the air coming out of a pitfall scandal. In three national governments, prior surveys are carried out against liberal government members. Today, a total of 11 members of the Security Administration have been suspended on the basis of the scandal you are responsible for. Basically, your own witnesses of the past, journalists of discovery and corresponding magazines accuse you that you have made a policy that achieves a disdain for democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, take your responsibility! Finally, stand up for the debate on these claims, and do not take away from nebulous findings of responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13109	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. Time left: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13130	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me refer once again to the White report. In this it says in relation to Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer – I quote –: "We believe that such a position of a minister in the Federal Government is not compatible with the obligations of a state body." - Quote. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: What else do you not think?]] That is a clear and clear statement. Only those responsible for the European Union at the time could not know that the current Minister of Justice is the trust attorney and legal director of the illegal free movement summit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer is not anyone in the liberal holocaust and reputation system. He's a key person. Somebody had to use the instruments of the reputational murder that others had illegally acquired from the police computers, even in court. [[Abg. Young: That's what the revolutionary Marxist says!]] It was only logical – from the liberal logic of the party – to make it a minister of justice, because only a Minister of Justice of the Freedom Party and its most heavily burdened officials can offer this rest of political security, which no other lawyer and minister of justice could offer. The Saturday statement, the admissibility, the Persilschein für Jörg Haider with the already historical sentence "Jörg Haider is too high over any doubt" – "heaven"! – has shown that the Freedom Party can continue to rely on the attorney of the Spittelring as a member of the Federal Government. [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] This is another reason why the demands of the European Union and its "three wise men" are now gaining special prominence. That's not an Austrian affair. This is not a free affair either: That is a question of the credibility of this federal government and of this republic in democratic Europe! It is a question of democratic credibility and the rule of law, whether the National Council and whether Austrian politics are able to cope with the old political load of Dr. Böhmdorfer. Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite possible that the Austrian People's Party does not yet follow the recommendations of Landeshauptmann Weingartner and Landeshauptmann Deputy and Deputy Mayor Göerg. Winery and Görg are a beginning; he who knows the ÖVP knows: There will be more. We probably already have a strong majority outside of this House, together with many top officials of the ÖVP. But weingartners, Görg and others who know better than the ones sitting here know what the...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13184	Your speaking time is exhausted, Mr Deputies. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13199	I'll be at the end of the sentence. – You will remember that at the end of the day they will not be and want to pay the full price for the political bankruptcy of the Free Party. Today you will still vote for us. But it's just a matter of time, Dr. Böhmdorfer.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13229	Mr Federal Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13251	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I need to make it clear, Dr. Kostelka. You know, I think, anyhow, because your wife is a lawyer, and that's why you can't escape it. It is a difference whether one has an act and submits it – that was accused to me – or whether – what is happening a hundred times a day in Austria – one asks for an act to be added to it, in order to acquire information on the basis of which one is obliged to act as a lawyer. You make an application to the court, and the court is preparing. This is a very legal process. I did that – and nothing else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13287	The motion for a resolution now before me by Mrs Kostelka, comrades and comrades is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Westenthaler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13311	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once again Klubobmann Kostelka has been left to get into the lower drawer and to use once again the means of accompaniment. [[Abg. Olympians: You're already in there!]] I say this quite consciously after he has presented himself here and has already claimed an untruth – an incredible untruth! He has claimed that the public prosecutor's investigations are currently under way against the Minister of Justice. You said this today – that's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: He said that!]] This is an untruth! Come out and take it back! They have very quickly been transferred to the untruth. You are ashamed of that, Mr Kostelka! I'm telling you that quite honestly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But that's your style of the bottom drawer! That's your style of mud-slaughter! [[Abg. May. Prammer:... what you're doing!]] Just like you've been at a press conference on 18 November. September to this day maintain the accusation that the telephones are being heard in the Ministry of Justice, when certain keywords fall! Mr Kostelka, you were not even too sorry to raise such a last-class accusation without even having a Jota of proof in your hand. And again today: Today you go out again and defamate again You're this Minister of Justice! I tell you, with all these diffamations, not only do you disqualify yourself, but you are also more questionable about the quality of your mistrust request, which is anyway more than dubios and will therefore be rejected by us today. He has no authority, and with these arguments he does not. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If you are an honorary man, Mr Kostelka, and if you still have a spark of propriety, then you would be obliged, because of these allegations, to go out of these two cases – that telephones will be heard in the ministry and that the Minister of Justice will be persecuted by the authorities – to apologise for them and to say: I'm wrong. - If you're an honorary man! It's not you, and that's why you don't make it. That is what we are criticizing you, Mr Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But you will – we have just experienced this – still have enough cleaning work. In the meantime, it has become known that the Procuratorate has initiated preliminary surveys against socialist officials suspected of abuse of the current data abuse. [[Hello call at the liberals.]] The first preliminary surveys have been launched, and a few will follow. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Against your people!]] Some will still follow on the basis of the criminal charges I have sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office today. It's already in the newspapers. In the "Small Newspaper" the headline is: "Punishment: Hot track to Carinthia." Listen, hear what's going on – I quote: "The circle of suspects also includes a senior Carinthian local politician of SPÖ, who is chief executive officer, as well as a social-democratic staff representative. They are supposed to be charged with the help of the police computer" – and now it is almost amusing if it is not so sad! – "Illegal investigations into a certain Mr. Peter Ambrozy." - Quote. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] You stifle your own people in Carinthia and go out here and play judges and prosecutors at the same time, and that makes you so unbelievable! That's why you will also experience your waterloo in this affair! I promise you, Mr Kostelka. It's clear once and for all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Pilz is at all the very best: Mr Pilz believes that he is already the judge, and here he condemns the speaker by drawing over the Minister of Justice and saying that everything is terrible at all! – He is a man who compares the procedure of this House with methods of the Milošević system, a man who, in an interview in which he is asked what the utopia of a functioning society looks like, defines his state understanding in this way: “It looks like there is no state. That's the first one. This instrument of violence must no longer exist." – Today, he is taking his first step with a distrust proposal to continue this state-depriving philosophy that you have. You won't be gianting in Austria with that! We will pay attention to democracy in this House and in this country that it will not be lifted up by someone like you! Marking That is what you are doing, Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Pilz is a man who is not afraid of making a false witness in court because in a case I have won it has become close to him. I have here completely legal documents and documents from a case of justice in which you, according to the Minutes, have claimed that Magistrate Director Bandion would have given you notices and documents. Just this magistrate director Bandion then declared in court that he never talked to you about this causa. – I don’t mention this Causa now, because it’s finished. But that shows: They say wrong in court. When the magistrate director was consulted, he rejected your statement. These are your methods: mispronounce, defamate, disintegrate state! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This is typical mushroom!]] You should get used to that!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13449	Deputies! Your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13465	Ladies and gentlemen! I think your present attack, which was announced so big, is nothing but a small but failed pipe-creper!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13495	Mr Gusenbauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13522	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, please tell your people that this is the Parliament and not a beer tent and therefore a different behaviour would be necessary! [[Congratulations and bravo call at the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What we have experienced today cannot be surpassed by uniqueness. The subject of a debate was in addition to the presentation of the new... – Skill [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Say something to the Social Democratic Officials!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You still hear what I'm saying, or hear You just scream?
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13570	Deputies! You're still talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13585	Thank you. – You still have not heard that this is not a beer tent, but the Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Today, in his opening speech, the Federal Chancellor pointed out the so-called "premise" in addition to the idea of the Minister of Social Affairs. That is why the subject of the debate has also been the subject of the debate. And today we have experienced that the Freedom Party has provided a model example of its political and democratic understanding. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] Not with a single word has any of you mentioned that it is the basis of the public debate that against substantial top officials of the Freedom Party preliminary surveys are carried out, not by media and not by other parties, but by the Public Prosecutor's Office! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Ambrozy!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the socialist officials?]] This is not the result of any conspiracy, but the acting of Austrian judicial bodies! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You can't talk about that through still so windy distraction maneuvers. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Westenthaler! This is the fact that we have to deal with here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Against your officials running preliminary surveys!]] The fact that you all have reproached today, starting with the fact that you call a Member a "state-disputing" that the Minister of Justice is dying to insult Members personally by the government bank, because nothing else seems to him to be saying that you are Austrian journalists as "smoker journalists" that your old-party observer is talking about the "sick brains in the editors", all this clearly shows: They beat themselves like a drowner, by all means! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Against your officials running preliminary surveys!]] That's going to be Don't save you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Your time is running out more and more!]] They make themselves up and say: If anyone wants to be an honorary man, he should do the following. – That’s what I say quite openly and honestly: Once the standards for an honorary man are set by Mr Westenthaler, we have brought it "wide" in this country, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations and bravo call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should not praise, Mr Kostelka!]] With all that has been offered here today, you don't have a spark of inconsistency, you don't critically question whether all the methods you used were right, you don't ask yourself with a single slight doubt the question whether it was right that obviously individual officials of the liberals in overwhelming zeal used any information in the public to make political critics mouth dead. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are an Austrian pursuer, as he stands in the Büchel!]] Not a single doubt has come from you! Do you know what that is? – You have a totalitarian political style! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the preliminary surveys against socialist officials?]] Do you want me to tell you something? – The foundation of this state, the foundation of this rule of law, is our constitution and not Mr Böhmdorfer!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13781	Mr Kiss has spoken on an actual correction. Deputies! Start playing the claim you want to correct. Your speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13806	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Member of the Caspar One – he is the former Minister of the Interior – has made three allegations in his debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] – Listening You're right, Mrs Mertel! Give me the chance to place these inaccurate claims here once and then make a correct position! First: In 1995, a staff member of the Ministry of the Interior would have handed over a PKK act – which is illegal by the law. Secondly, I would have been in Parliament for months with this act. Thirdly, I would have played myself in this connection to the guardian of morality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] Mr. One as a Member and a former Minister of the Interior. I am actually correcting the false statements you made here. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] First: Not a staff member of the Ministry of the Interior, but a high-ranking SPÖ member has handed me this law-abiding act of the PKK. This is the first one. Secondly, I did not do this for months in Parliament with this act, but immediately after this SPÖ member handed over this act to me, I handed over the act of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna for criminal prosecution, and I also forwarded this information in a press conference and also in Parliament. Thirdly, I've never been a moral guardian, nor has my party. We are the guardians of the law!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e13867	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Justice. 74 para. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van der Bellen and Mr Comrades on the request to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in accordance with the nature of the matter. 70 Federal Constitutional Law to propose to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany to discharge the Federal Minister of Justice Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer from his office. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr and Mr Comrades on the increase in the safety of the Bundespflegegeldsetz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Reitsam and Mr Comrades on the unacceptable deterioration in unemployment insurance. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pittermann and Mr Comrades on the abolition of non-social sickness charges. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dobnigg and Mr Comrades on raising social security in the field of care benefits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades on the authorisation to provide information on persons who have been bullied in connection with the illegal transmission of police data. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14006	We are now entering the debate on the request made by Dr Pilz and comrades to set up a committee of inquiry and the request made by Dr Gusenbauer and comrades to set up an investigation committee. These applications have now been distributed to all Members. Applications shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request by Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Cap, Dr. Wittmann and Genossins, pursuant to § 33 GOG on the establishment of an investigation committee The signed Members request that an investigation committee be set up in relation to SPÖ: 5, Freedom: 4, ÖVP: 4 and Greens: 1. Subject-matter of the investigation: Enlightenment of allegations concerning the transfer of police data to third parties and the systematic involvement of security personnel; Study of legal and political responsibility in relation to these matters. Investigation order: By collecting oral and written information on the subject-matter of the investigation and by taking into account the files of the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs and other federal institutions relating to the subject-matter of the investigation, the Committee of Inquiry shall examine all matters concerning legal and political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14110	In agreement with the applicants, a joint debate will be held unprejudicially on the above-mentioned applications, with the first speaker at the disposal of a speaking time of 10 minutes each and then one speaker per group with a speaking time of 5 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The clock is set to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14133	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Once again – it has not been overly often – I justify why the establishment of a parliamentary investigation committee is necessary to clarify the top coward. I'll tell you something: I am not at all instigated that, as I believe, I can now, for the third time, start a request and expect a rejection for the third time. Do you know how long we've been in "Lucona" and "Noricum"? – Ten, 15 or almost 20 times! The suffering-tested colleagues, not at the time by the Freedom Party, may well remember this in part: At some point, even if it does not seem that way at the beginning, the time for the Committee is ripe. And I will now give you some new information on thought every time we make a request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry. 5. Jörg Haider's special meeting in this House was convened on 1 July 1995: Jörg Haider goes to the speaker's desk, turns to Justice and Interior Ministers, and in moving words describes the crimes and crimes of the so-called Scheinasylants. He's quoting from three secret files of the Ministry of the Interior. Rewinding – a short time before in the rooms of the liberal club –: Jörg Haider meets two officials from the Vienna police, one of whom is still a member of the FPÖ in Vienna today. And I am now asking some Members whether they happened by chance, what happened in the club at that time. I ask Mrs Partik-Pablé, I ask Mr Jung, I ask Mr Graf and I ask Mr Ex-Deputy Head: Perhaps you can give us some relevant information about what was then in the early 5th century. Is it true that the European Parliament has been elected in July 1995 in the parliamentary club? Was Jörg Haider really alone with the two officials? Or were there still some others, and with what perceptions can you participate in the investigation of this matter? Now I do not want to make it extra difficult for the honourable Member and others. Do you know what the good of investigative committees is, Mr Graf? – You don’t have to justify yourself to your own party if you have said the truth, but you can say: I couldn't help it. I was under the duty of truth. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. I hope you will soon see that this is actually a protection of your own personality if you can tell the truth under the duty of truth. You'll see that it's much, much easier then! – This also applies to many others! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He wasn't there! That's the answer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will then listen to this under the duty of truth, and to Mr Schweitzer we will have a number of other questions. Now I call another reason why it is worth further questioning here: Theresia Haidlmayr has inaugurated me into the art of the mileage billing, and I am very grateful to her for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] I'd like to introduce her calculations now. I take away – and I have not gotten any secret files – from the "FORMAT" a kilometre bill with the signature of a liberal countryman in Vienna: "Kilometre money July/August 1999: 7 994,80 S". If you – I have not even come to this idea! – divided by the official kilometre money of 4.90 s, then you will notice that the police officer has charged Mr. Landtagsreiter Kreissl with 1 631,5918 km. Apparently, it's common for AUF officials not to say: We're rounding up or down, but that's exactly where we're reckoned at centimetres! That's the first centimetres of money I know! [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] As the centimetres of the financial accounting system of the AUF and the liberal countrymen, of course we want to explore this, because we also have an interest in an accounting system, which is primarily about accuracy! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We are also in favour of the fact that there is no more and no less, it should be exactly. We're not going to make extra driving tests now, just how it works on the centimetres, but I'm very excited. Mr. Landtagsreiter Kreissl and his friends at the Wiener Funkstelle will certainly give us relevant information. I mentioned it before: Weingartner, your Vienna vice-bourgeois master and partyobmann Göerg and obviously also some others have already officially come to the view: Yes, something has to happen! And I do not reveal a great secret that there are already colleagues of the Austrian People's Party here in this House who, if they successfully overcome the barrier of the glass doors, say to us more and more often behind these glass doors that they think like Weingartner and Görg. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Pilz already on the wood road again!]] You know it's bubbling. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He drags himself around in Parliament on the wood road!]] You know for yourself that we're getting the investigation committee. You know for yourself that you don't know this story anymore. [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's where he has to laugh, the fungus!]] It's just more about when, it's not about whether. Of course, there will be a majority for this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: He's a cabaretist!]] Yes, do you think the Vienna ÖVP is risking an election success, just to hold the parliamentary bar to the honourable Member Kreissl and Kabas? Faith Do you really think that Kabas and Kreissl are worthy of Dr. Görg and also of your honourable Member, since they continue to make the wall and make the law of silence the rule in this coalition? – This time is coming to an end! I'll just make you a suggestion: Let us shorten it so that we can start clarifying political responsibility as soon as possible! It is explained: It is publicly clarified, it is clarified in the media, it is clarified on the margins of court proceedings. You can only improve one in the clarification: You may have an orderly procedure. [[Abg. Oillingers: You are in the process of calculating the mileage!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Your time is running out!]] Yes, Mr Schweitzer, your time is also running out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: No, no, no!]] At the latest on the day of your testimony to the investigation committee, your time is running out. And I simply note that it is exciting to discuss with a FPÖ club where the expiry date on the individual fronts of Members becomes clearer and clearer. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We should agree to this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You'll get the possibility of the statement. This will not prevent a minister of justice and no clubman in the world. We will form a majority with the Austrian People's Party – whether it wants it today or not – and will certainly receive the applause and support from Klagenfurt, sooner or later. I am already looking forward to the common majority. Today you keep a biterl the rod, but soon it won't be. Wonderful! We'll meet again in the Investigation Committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14320	The next speaker to speak was Mr Cap. 10 minutes speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14355	High house! Can you, colleagues from the FPÖ, remember the time when you were in opposition? – In fact, almost every meeting, if only the slightest occasion, has come up with a request from you to set up an investigative committee on this or that subject. Hardly are you in the government – schwupps has lost your interest in investigation committees. My question is: Why is this so, since you know for yourself – I would like to give my previous speaker a right – that the establishment of this committee of inquiry cannot simply be avoided because of the public debate and the seriousness of the accusations. I do not understand why you choose a Masochistic access to the policy and setting up of this committee of inquiry, if this is ultimately only to help bring real light into the dark. Of course, nothing can change your famous "ultimative counter-beat" that was in the final effect a final shot in its own knee, which was nothing but an attempt to give the average informed citizen the impression by means of ads, by means of so-called facts: There's something lazy in the SPÖ again! There are any courts occupied, because they have all been dirty, so the SPÖ is the main culprits. That's a very bad strategy you're applying, because your windy ads don't say anything at all – nothing at all! – except that you want to build a counter-public. That's your procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you say 30 years of SPÖ's Minister of the Interior, there's political responsibility: You know exactly what that was like, and that is one of my main reasons why I am in favour of setting up an investigation committee. Finally, I want to know how these pitfalls in the security equipment and the Ministry of the Interior have ended, which have led the Blue Spittel to inculcate an interior minister. It's a one-time thing! And there's light in the dark! Who was that? Which network has it been? Who in the countless attempts taken by the Interior Ministers together with other officials to clarify this, has made sure that the Omertà has worked the wall of silence? Who were the ones who achieved this? - There's light in the dark! That's what we want to know! And that's why a committee of inquiry belongs! That's also your first thing you have: the fear of this light, which you bring into this blue dark, into this dark blue dark. Then there's something else to add. We've been dealing with the behavior of small-time and co-work the last time. We know he broke through this wall of silence in his book. This was actually the prerequisite for this, I believe, very clean public debate. But you know, it makes me thinkful when I read that mini-service was one of the narrowest haters of Mr. Kreissl. The Kreißl has made a great career. He's suddenly a State Party Secretary, he's become a representative. One hears of reward systems, that people have suddenly made kilometres of money bills – that is, one will probably have made so intelligent that the kilometers have come together somewhere – but it is also a reward system that suddenly someone becomes a party secretary, who has previously been particularly prominent in the coordination task of information procurement. – That’s where I want light in the dark! I'm interested. This is not the only one from the blue information network, from the security device that has been conceived with mandates. There are several behind that. So, I think, it is more than right that you really try to create clarity here. The names are obvious, there are many preliminary surveys. I therefore believe that the public and, ultimately, the voters have a right to be better informed of what has actually been done. I'm also interested in something: If Jörg Haider said he can get any information if he wants, then I want to know: When did he want to? What information did he get from where? - I'm interested. Therefore, light into the dark, which information Jörg Haider had organized for himself! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] The only thing I have to say is: It was perfect. Your tipping and monitoring system probably not. It was also applied within the party as to how to read. Patrick Ortlieb, Theresia Zierlers were carefully checked whether there would not be any dark points in their life story. However, they should have examined them more extensively. When I mention the names Gratzer, Mentil, Rosenstingl, I mean: The blue tipping system failed when such a giant mega scandal in your ranks was possible. You should have studied and sharpened internally. You must also be careful of Mr Kabas, who has himself pointed out or pointed out, as the accusations speak, about which you can read in many places. These countless security checks he performs in the various brothels! I don't know if it would also be good to see him closely what he's doing there and there. So for the hygiene of democracy, I can only say one thing to you: This committee of inquiry must speed up so that at last light comes into this blue dark!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14445	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes each. Mr Wittmann came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14469	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party do not look through the game of the ÖVP Klasnic makes perfect politics on the back of the liberals by permanently betting against these general agreements at federal level. [[Vivid cheerfulness at the ÖVP]] Görg does the same and thus announces the politics that is being pursued in the Vienna election campaign. The ÖVP will simply make policy on the back of the FPÖ. I guarantee you that! Except you yourself try to bring light into this dark. If you do not want this election campaign at the Vienna level, it would be reasonable for you to contribute by yourself to this Enlightenment. In your own interest I can only recommend: Voices To this committee! You will still have the debate on this committee here. You're tormenting yourself. They do the ÖVP election aid in the Vienna election campaign. Their top candidate, Görg, has already agreed on the party line. It is quite certain – I promise you – that, when the time is right, you will stand there alone and still have the Committee. Therefore: Please agree! They would choose the smaller evil. It's clear that Haider realized that it's going to be that way. That is why he also recommends that a committee should be agreed to, including the risk of one or the other remaining on the track. And it looks as if this soup, which is now being cooked, would get thicker and thicker. On the one hand, we have a witness who has called quite certain names, on the other hand, we have investigational officials who simply find clues which persons should be involved. On the third side, we have a state captain who has filed a confession in the form that he has said: I can get any information I want, and I'll use it. So you can't turn this political responsibility down any more. But above all, the political game driven by this responsibility will only be played at the expense of the liberals. The ÖVP has already understood perfectly how to use the back of the liberals in the Styrian election campaign. Moreover, it is difficult to have a minister of justice who plays a very dubious role in the whole matter. It is clear to me what a lawyer has for duties and possibilities, I am also of the firm conviction that Dr. Böhmdorfer has probably always done enough of his legal duty – I would assume, I even assume – only: Political responsibility goes a little further. The political responsibility to use such information is different from that of the lawyer Böhmdorfer. He's a Minister of Justice! And the culpa in eligendo to make him the Minister of Justice is with the FPÖ because a minister of justice with this pre-life is quite simply different because other qualifications and other moral standards are used. On the one hand, he has the condemnation in the "wise" report of being a man who does not correspond to the ruling classifications of executives in Europe; he has indeed tolerated and strengthened government-critical persons; he has used materials in his processes that seem to be worrying. That's not the measure of politicians being measured. This may well be the measure set up by a lawyer to determine whether he is doing his role in relation to the client, but not with the Minister of Justice. This is about moral responsibility, and he should not delay this death for so long, for it is a death in councils. It is about a minister of justice who has already entered this fat cap three times, who repeatedly comes in this direction, who always fulfils the role he has defined by the EU, which has to do more and more, and who practically also has to make an ever-increasing contribution in a committee of inquiry to a minister of justice who is politically and morally unbearable in this form. His deliberations and his statements from the government bank testify to nervousness, testifying to embarrassment as we were otherwise used to them only by the appearances of the Westenthaler Member. It is a death in councils, and I think it would be easier for the FPÖ to agree to an investigation committee than to be halted by the ÖVP in the Vienna election campaign, especially since Görg is already positioning himself and the FPÖ is left in the rain. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Desirable dreams!]] I look at it with pleasure how Deputy Mayor Görg will produce the FPÖ Vienna.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14513	Your speaking time is exhausted. Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14528	Vote for an investigation committee! This will give a great deal of discussion at the Vienna level.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14567	The next speaker was Mr Graf.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14602	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So far, I have always known that Colle Wittmann has a face – since 1995 he has been here in the high house – since today I know he also has a vote. For the first time, he turned himself into the debate, but in reality the whole thing was not particularly great either. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I still deal with the SPÖ in my remarks, but now something different is burning me on my tongue, because my colleague Pilz has thought of me several times in his speech, and especially because he – supported by his colleague Haidlmayr – has presented such a beautiful, so beautiful example of the calculation. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, fascinating!]] And when I combine fungus and Haidlmayr, I always have concerns – I have to say that honestly – about it. You always have to check what happens. [[Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Westenthaler – towards the Greens –:Be careful!]] That Mrs. Haidlmayr – and I have already explained this – signed well-known things that she does not read – perhaps someone would assume that she cannot read; I don't think so – is known. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Listen! Listen!]] [[Abg. Oils: Super!]] The mathematical qualities of my colleague Pilz, who once checked through, became aware of us today. [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Schweitzer – towards the Greens –:Be careful!]] 7 994,80 S he has divided by 4.90 S – together with colleague Haidlmayr, who, as I said, signs something that she does not read – accordingly and has come to centimetres. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pilz, be careful!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr keeps a pocket calculator up.]] Mr Pilz and Mrs Haidlmayr! You both have been representatives of a law-making body for many years – that's probably right, isn't it? – and I expect politicians sitting in a law-making body to be aware of the laws they adopt, and of the changes they make. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Eben!]] Something else would be a witness to poverty. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Watch out!]] In July and August 1995, you will be subject to – 95! – a kilometre fee of 4.90 p. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 99!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 1999!]] I'm telling you one of the miles of money in 1995 was 4,60 s. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 1999!]] [[Abg. Oils: 1999!]] Divide 7 994,80 S by 4,60 S, then you will see that it represents 1,738 full kilometers and nothing else. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 1999!]] [[Abg. Oils: 1999!]] Now there are two options, Mr. Pilz – and I would like to write to you in the main book –: Either you didn't know what your group decided to do, or, I don't want to put it to you, you've been calculating 4.90 s of miles of money since 1995. I do not want to accept that, because that would be the non-legal extension of a tax advantage, I would say once. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 1999!]] In any case, the fact is one: The main thing is, you can throw someone. [[Abg. Oellinger: That was 1999, Col. Graf!]] Then every means is right for you, even the distortion of facts, false compilation of annual figures and data, and also false substituting in the division. I'll give you one on the way: Learn to calculate! I recommend Mrs Haidlmayr to read in the future what she writes. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: Oh you! Weak applause!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] In this context, Mr Pilz: You yourself – we have heard it today – describe how you see your utopia of society. And that's exactly where you're going. They mean that the state is abolished, first of all. Now I'm looking at your friends, and I'm not taking any little officer here, I'm a representative of the Green sister party in Germany. There a well-known representative of the Greens, today Deputy Chancellors and Foreign Minister, actually gives the best – I quote – of the following: "I have never disputed that for almost ten years, I also wanted to overthrow the constitutional order in the Federal Republic using violence..." – quote. This is very well known to me: The Kaisermühlner Pilz on the one hand, the German vice chancellor on the other, who actually have an utopia: to overthrow the state. The German vice chancellor also says that "comandante of the so-called "Putzgruppe", a conspiratatively organized gang of disguised violent agents", was to have been. Further: "Guerilla actions, sympathy for RAF." Fischer literally: "We left radicals, we are the mad ones." I'll tell you: You try to use the same method as your Joschka fisherman did to sit here in the conifer's strip, to prevent the Biedermann, but in reality to continue to be overturned. That's what I'm telling you from this speaker's mouth!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14869	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14884	They always call on secret information. There are legions of applications for the setting up of committees of inquiry to which you refer to secret files, but in return you claim that you would never have done so. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Completely right!]] In fact, with the casting pot full of petrol you go through the land, light up everything, and then you want to simply fire here as a fire brigade. No one believes it anymore!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14925	The next speaker was Mr Loos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e14946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! No one here in the House claims that data abuse is a small thing. Nobody claimed that here. [[Call the ÖVP: I accept that!]] That's accepted, I think, everyone. But if you want to construct a state crisis, a government crisis, I don't think that's right. I understand that one who sees the state as Dr. Pilz would like to see this state in a crisis. But that is not the case! How did our government react to the suspicion of data abuse? – Mr. Strasser has set up a special commission immediately after becoming aware of suspicions. He has released this special commission, which, as I believe, is very important. This Special Commission will be provided with all human, financial and technical resources. In addition, an emergency programme has been launched, the four-eye principle and so on; I do not want to explain it so precisely now. What can one see in that a crisis of government? – Our minister has done the right thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This special commission took place on 11 November. An interim report was forwarded to the Court of Justice in October 2000. In addition, as we all know, the Minister of Justice has clearly stated that he will not intervene in all these processes, but that he will do everything he can to ensure that it is thoroughly clarified. What do you see in that government crisis? Where has a Federal Minister of Government done wrong in this matter? - I don't see anything about it! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] By the way: I am convinced that we have a high-class jurisdiction in Austria. Some of them are not supposed to be in this House. I believe in our rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, and we should all believe that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This jurisdiction will do its best in terms of data abuse. Everything will be clarified. Again: I trust in our rule of law. That's, I think, what you should say. But if some or a few officials of the executive, as I hope, have done wrong, this must be fought rigorously. For this we will be a hundred percent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and of the Greens! They have already done everything possible in the EU sanctions to leave this government in a bad light. But you didn't succeed. Unfortunately, they have done a very bad job for the Austrian population. The Austrian population has recognized that the current Federal Government is working hard and that it is about shaping the future for the people of our country in such a way that they can participate in economic growth and prosperity. It is a government at work that does not run waste policy at the expense of the future generations, but sparingly deals with public resources. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They are concerned with making a possible misuse of data – the suspicion is very dense, which can be said that there has probably been data abuse – a state affair. It is not about creating order where it is necessary, but you want a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. But that's what hurts our entire state. Some may even want to do so. They want to do so at a time when there are only suspicions, as is the case at present – they have already been exactly accused yesterday of this in the "matter" broadcast. Well, if there's no court judgment yet, you can suspect any possibility. We want the courts to clarify first, and then, when it comes to political responsibility, we will intervene accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Only: One thing has to be clear: It was Mr Lösnak, Mr Ein and Mr Schlögl during this review period. Let's keep ourselves, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the facts! Let us refrain from pre-condemnifications! Let us not undermine confidence in our rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15040	The last speaker to speak was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15061	High house! Mr Graf, your statements were completely for nothing, five minutes you could have saved yourself – a wonderful example of the "ultimative counter-attacks" before which the opposition and the whole of Austria tremble! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Five minutes you have needed to explain how the calculation of the kilometre has developed, and to explain how "bubbled" we are opposition representatives because we do not know how high the kilometre money is. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's it!]] I'll put it right: 1999 – and the payment refers to 1999, specifically to the 13th. October 1999 – was the official kilometre in this Republic 4,90 S, Mr. Graf. And since you can multiply or divide the kilometre money with the promille, that doesn't change anything about it. 7 994,80 S by 4,90 S makes something different than divided by 4,60 S, what you wanted to say. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A party is not an office!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: 30 S for a litre of petrol!]] Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Five minutes for nothing! Please go back to your citizenship, and try to recalculate the example using all arithmetic and mathematical skills that exist there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it does not work, we will be happy to provide you with the appropriate help in the Investigation Committee. I can tell you, it's really very amusing: After we have already had some experience with the prime figures in connection with "Euroteam", we can calculate and control this, but you should, before you next speak for nothing for the next five minutes, perhaps acquire the four basic accounting types and the level of knowledge about the official mileage money in 1999. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Your Members do not read what they are signing!]] In 1995 – I say it again: 1995 so that you have no difficulty keeping the figures apart; I understand you so badly! – was the incident referred to by Mr Pilz, and you have remained guilty of it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We never talk for nothing, but in vain!]] What was there in the rooms of the liberals just before the special meeting? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Club session!]] There were two representatives of the AUF in the rooms of the liberals and delivered their report for the upcoming special meeting – your file documents that were requested there. Mr Graf, you should have answered that. If you read the minutes of this special session, you will soon find that Mr Haider has quoted good from these files. These were not public documents, Mr Graf, but these were files that had a certain degree of secrecy. To these files, not everyone, every woman, but obviously only Mr Haider, supported by the two self-evident AUF officials who gave him the appropriate documents in good time. You can read it in the seating information of 5. July 1995! That's what the Stenographical Protocol says: "Dacic Selim from Kosovo has been legally sentenced for raubes in Austria. Part of this robbery was..." And so on. "All of this is clear; we have the files with us," said Mr Haider. Yes, from where did he have these files, Mr Haider? – One reads the "FORMAT" from this week, there it stands! Quote: "In 1995 Haider introduced two AUF officials to ask them to attend a special meeting on the subject, "How sure is Austria?" To investigate cases of criminally committed asylum seekers." Aha, interesting! Are those parts of those files that we should discuss in a committee of inquiry – with arithmetical knowledge or without arithmetical knowledge of kilometre billing, Mr. Graf? [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: This is the parallel process!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (Keeping up the advertisement part of the "Kronen-Zeitung") Do you have the files?]] Should we not discuss this in a committee of inquiry? It is even more interesting to read a few pages further in the "FORMAT", what Mr Westenthaler says. Quote: "After the preliminary surveys it will be in our cases" – that is, he means those of the liberals – "lock. The other cases are subject to pre-examinations under guarantee." Mr Westenthaler, how do you deal with 'FORMAT', but also here today in this House guarantees...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15226	Mr President, your speaking time is exhausted! Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15242	How do you get to make guarantees for investigations? Are you the Minister of Justice, or are you connected to him? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Something he took! He must have taken something again!]] We need a committee of inquiry, precisely because of such statements, including you, Mr Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15280	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on Mr Pilz's request for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: For the Minutes: Van der Bellen left the plenary before the vote!]] Finally, I have to vote on the request made by Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Comrades for the setting up of an investigation committee. I ask for an appropriate sign upon approval. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-10-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00043_d7e15327	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 314/A to 318/A. Questions 1436/J to 1447/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is for Wednesday, 22. November 2000, 9 a.m., in view. This will be convened in writing. The sitting is closed.
