ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2167	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to take the seats and open the 22nd. National Council meeting scheduled for 9 a.m. today. ==References====External links== Meeting and the 20th and 21st Meetings. The session was held in Parliament's management and without any objection. They shall be deemed approved. As an obstacle to today's sitting, MEPs are Mag. Main and Ing. Gerhard Bauer. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2204	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Deputy is Magistrate. Franz Steindl refused his mandate and was appointed to the National Council by Mr Johann Loosal in his place. Since there is a vote and the colleague mentioned is present in the House, I shall immediately make the fishing observation. After the reading of the vow formula by the writer, Mrs Haller, the new representative becomes his fishing observation – as always – with the words "I vow." I may ask the writer to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2231	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2246	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2262	I can warmly welcome the new colleagues in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2289	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office made the following statement on a resolution by the President of the Federal Government concerning the representation of a member of the Federal Government: Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr Bartenstein is represented by Mr Molterer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2313	I can refer to the written communication distributed in the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. – There are no comments. This means that the allocations are made in this form. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2414	I announce that the following template has been reached: Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Final Acts (85 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, pursuant to Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. I'll do that. Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2450	We are now going into the agenda for today's sitting. There is no wish of the rapporteur for reporting. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2474	We will lead the debate – following a long-standing parliamentary practice – so that general statements, which could otherwise be the subject of a general debate, can be made in connection with the advisory groups I and II. This practice has proved itself and is intended to be maintained. The further breakdown of the debate and the votes within the meaning of § 73 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure can be found in the work plan issued. The National Council is to be found on this issue. On the other hand, are there any objections? This is not the case. Then it's so approved. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2504	In the presidential session, consensus was reached on the structure of the debate as follows: A day-block time has been proposed for today's meeting of 10 'Vienna hours', which will give rise to the following speeches: SPÖ 195 minutes, Freedom Party and People's Party per 145 minutes, Green 115 minutes. The speaking time of the member of the government responsible for the respective advisory group shall be 20 minutes, and if this time is exceeded – and this also applies to the State Secretary, whose speaking time is 10 minutes – the exceedance shall be counted on the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will be counted from the outset on the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mrs Vice-Chancellor is in the debate held among the Advisory Groups I and II, provided that the speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. The Hoge Haus also has to be found. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it's so decided. Advisory Group I Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Advisory Group II Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery with services Chapter 13: Art (including economic compensatory estimate)
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2596	We are now entering the joint debate on the advisory groups I and II of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. There is no need for oral reporting on these special groups. We shall take immediate action in the deliberations. Mr Kostelka is the first speaker. The legal speaking time is 20 minutes; a voluntary speaking time of 15 minutes is proposed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2628	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! After 100 days, this House is not only concerned with the sounding words about the declaration of government and the budget speech, but is actually concerned with actions: the budget and the budget programme. Ladies and gentlemen! They have not only reaped more blame than praise in this context in Austria, but also rightly in Europe. After all, you have effortlessly lowered the latte you yourself have laid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did you promise us a few weeks ago? – That the budget of you will be finally renovated, that a courageous policy for the budget will bring black and blue figures to be precise. Ladies and gentlemen! This week, your Federal Minister, Grasser, has had to put in a herd Tadel in Brussels for exactly what you have presented to the House. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this connection, the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce is right to speak of a motion from Brussels. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Abg. Edlinger, there's the culprit!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party and of the ÖVP! This is a sounding ear fig for your budget program and for your budget! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The programme you have presented is too little ambitious, the 14 other finance ministers have said. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, your program!]] The budget and budget programme you presented in Brussels does not achieve the planned deficit reduction. You're not on Europe's course! – This is the certificate to your budget policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this connection, I would like to tell you with all the emphasis: Don't try to hide behind Federal Minister Edlinger. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It has always been believed, ladies and gentlemen, by the government coalition in Brussels. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When he was Austrian Finance Minister, Austria was regarded as a respected, credible and reliable partner. The amended figures you have submitted have only brought up a headshake in Brussels. In just a few weeks, you have thoroughly played over the credibility of Austria with the other finance ministers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor does it help you with the little Azores high that your foreign minister has created. The thunderstorm clouds over Brussels are moving together. You will not believe the horror and horror stories relating to the budget in which the ÖVP was "not" in particular. You have brought down this horror story yourself, ladies and gentlemen! That budget programme, in the stability programme you sent to Brussels, expressly states that the estimated budget deficit in 1999 has been reduced by 2 billion schilling and that the Maastricht figures have also been lowered. The routing you have received will apply to your own budget and budget programme! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have not even decided on your first budget in this House, and you are already beginning to argue with experts on how to deal with the budget crisis. They have really finished bringing about a turnaround in the budget area: They have come back from the falling deficits of Edlinger to rising budget deficits of Grassers. In this context, it is clear that: You save, yes, but too little and especially in the wrong place! They save on middle and small incomes, they break almost every election promise without regard to them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you have to represent the budgetary problems that you have here in this House, but also in Brussels, because at the same time you are throwing out the money with both hands, in the direction of your own clientele, which you are keeping to the promise. They make an income policy for the upper strata that causes additional expenditure. For these you have very much money to finance the promotion of the self-employed as well as the middle and larger farmers and the homeowners. [[Abg. Aumayr: One base after another!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I say to you openly: They are bringing the social system, the system of social compensation in Austria to the fore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Kostelka! Where's your party president Gusenbauer? Is he in the hall today? Is Gusenbauer still in Paris?]] The recipe you're doing here is ancient: The first argument in this context is: Everyone has to save! And that sounds just. Of course, everyone has to save. Only: You, ladies and gentlemen, realize this with a linear savings concept. They increase, in particular, those taxes, those which affect all to the same extent: tobacco charges; a pass needs everyone; the increase in electricity is mainly the small and medium-sized households, as well as the increase in car taxes. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The non-smoker does not hit the tobacco fee!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The third is the cynical argument: Performance must be rewarded again! I'm really asking you: Is it your opinion that a skilled worker, a driver, a salesman, a nurse's gardener has nothing to do with it? - That's your self-understanding. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No polemics from the speaker's desk!]] Performance, according to your definition, does something that has a corresponding income. Ladies and gentlemen! Behind the saying "Performance must pay off again!" You are basically gradually hiding away from social compensation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not believe me in this regard, you believe at least the budget expert, Lehner, nominated by you, but also your employee representative, Dinkhauser. In addition, the experts have also noted that the budget is intrusive – that is, to argue about honesty – that sustainability is missing, because too many and all too large one-off measures have been put in place, and a new budgetary crisis threatens. Read more in today's "Kurier", I recommend the reading of page 15. A recognized economist says that although there is no obligation to raise taxes, what we need is a housing reform and a federal road reform. That is, in German: fewer homes and in addition proper loads on the countries which, by the way, are no longer able to carry them. The Economic Research Institute clearly states that either by 2003 new savings packages are necessary, or that you can move or forget your electoral beaters, namely the additional wage reduction or the family package. Ladies and gentlemen! With your policy you were given the choice to decide where you want to lose credibility first: in Brussels or in Austria. In the interest of short-term survey data, you have opted for Austria and not Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! You have thus provided a bear service because you know that we have some problems at European level, and you must be aware that this does not really increase the credibility of Austria. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Was anyone back abroad from you?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The budget you have presented is a budget of social injustice and imbalances. As the economic research institute proves – and you can’t discuss this – you’re burdening the lower incomes by 1.6 percent and the highest incomes by 0.8 percent. Social weaknesses therefore have to pay twice as much as the top earners. This is a budget of the social cold. The elbow society and the discharge of responsibility towards those who need help are the programme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I cannot spare you the core points of the opinion of the Economic Research Institute – I quote with the permission of Mr President: [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Khol]] The planned fiscal consolidation measures over-proportionally burden the poorer population. - Quote. That's nothing to laugh about, Mr. Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The "Authorisation of the President"!]] You should listen to these words very seriously. It goes on to say: The increase in consumption taxes and fees by around 14 billion schilling hits the poor about twice as much as the better earners. – Is this very humorous, Mr. Khol? – Further burdens are still ahead, because 33 billion Schilling One-time measures in the 2000 budget still have to be covered permanently. And the new benefits for companies, such as the additional wage costs, farmers and families in the order of 25 billion schillings, still have to be paid by someone. The Economic Research Institute therefore concludes: It can be a political strategy in the spirit of Reagan and Thatcher to relieve companies as well as the better-earners according to the motto "performance must pay themselves again" and to ask the less-income households more to cash. The final sentence is – perhaps you will find that too, Mr Khol: But you shouldn't sell this strategy as a policy for the "little" man. – So far as experts from the Economic Research Institute. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is the answer in this context? – The Economic Research Institute, for 50 years a support for economic policy and economic research, and also for the social partners, has been strongly political in this context by the Federal Chancellor. Ladies and gentlemen! A mirror image is not removed by destroying the mirror. Argument! Imagine the criticism, as well as the facts! Admit that higher consumption taxes simply and simply have to burden the more socially weak, that pension reform will lead to a significant reduction in low incomes, that self-retaining in the health insurance sector will be mainly at the expense of the poor, and that car tax, electricity tax, above all, will tax smaller incomes! Ladies and gentlemen! They change the social climate in Austria. They operate a social polarization, and they consciously set accents. The multi-child supplement is dedressed from the social season. In the future, top earners will also receive the supplement of 400 S from the third child. At the same time, however, you will seriously discuss withdrawing minimum pensioners from the basic phone fee of 198 S per month. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not a coincidence, that's the goal of your policy, and that's why you're exposing yourself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's why you're exposing yourself. Robin Hood becomes the Sheriff of Nottingham. Ladies and gentlemen! You leave many questions open. The necessary investment in the future, research funding, investment in universities will not only be neglected, yes, the amounts you make available to research institutions and universities will even be reduced. The inflation rate will rise significantly due to your increase in taxes and taxes. They are still guilty of any answer as to how to finance the one-time measures in the future. Mr President, Mr Prinzhorn has discovered the mobile licenses in this context, but this too can only be sold once, according to the nature of licences. The billions of forced labourers to be paid, which we are in principle in favour of, have no coverage in this budget, nor in your budget programme, and how the countries and communities you are to take away from the drinking tax will meet their financing needs is completely open. Ladies and gentlemen! The mists are beginning to rise slowly over the country of blue-black politics so praised by you. What we see is a very inhospitable area, in which above all the thistle of social injustice grows. We will therefore not give this budget, with the exception of the Chapters of the Supreme Institutions, the approval. You have to answer this before the voter. We reject the budget for good reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2865	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. The clock is set at 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e2886	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! That at a first reading of the first budget of a new government the club members of both opposition groups are not present and cannot be placed on the speaker list is an amazing fact and shows how seriously the opposition takes its role. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But that Mr. Van der Bellen and Mr. Gusenbauer are not here, and that is probably abroad, this fills me with concern for Austria. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are approaching!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new government is in office for 100 days. The opposition has not granted her a period of time. The government didn't need a deadline. She worked, and her balance can be seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have a new ministerial law with fewer ministries, which are more appropriate, and we have so many important ministries with women as yet no government. That's women's policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have solved problems in these 100 days where the old coalition has failed for years. We finally equated workers and employees, the nationalized industry finally privatized and left by the line of party policy. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Objection of post-contracting: Mrs. Vice-Chancellor's bringing in a law this month. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have lowered rents, liberalized and discounted the electricity price, redefined health insurance funds, started pension reform, decided on a budget provisorium, and are now presenting a budget for 2000 which Mr Edlinger has failed to achieve. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And what did the opposition do in these 100 days? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: A fairy tale hour!]] I do not even want to talk about what the opposition has done abroad. In Austria, the opposition has operated fundamental opposition. Unheard of! Before the new government was introduced, it was brought to this house with a special meeting. There was a vote of distrust before it was even presented to the house. This is fundamental opposition! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A minister who had been in office for only a few days and who has since been very well established was presented by a minister who was no longer in office just a few days after she had been responsible for the standstill for years, a urgent request. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The old minister, who knew everything and had to know, presented 60 urgent questions to the new minister, who was in office for three days. That's fairness! Or? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The opposition has tried to play a legitimate role in the fight against legitimacy. Mrs. Lunacek! I remember your speech. They wanted this government, elected by the Austrian people and supported by the Austrian National Council, to agree on legitimacy. They wanted to call for resistance and overthrow a government that had been established by law and constitution over the pressure of the road. That's what you did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Despite these circumstances, the government, ladies and gentlemen, was dynamic, has not been hurt and has launched a number of reforms. It is like a liberation through this country, which is dynamically governed here, successfully ruled and finally covered by hot iron. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Kostelka! You must remember the reform stand. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But they were you! You stopped!]] Today, no one is throwing us out of the reform stand. The same critics say: Why does everything have to go so fast? With this criticism we can live. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All those who meant: Why does the pension reform have to be done so quickly, with the reorganisation of the labour market administration? Why is it necessary to go so fast in the public service, in privatisation?, I must stop that the ECOFIN reports – Mr Kostelka – have been said quite clearly: Without structural reforms, it will not be possible to achieve the budget objectives. And these are the structural reforms in which you are all too quick. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The government has had to work under difficult circumstances: no time-limit, fundamental opposition, pressure on fall and then unjust EU-unwarranted sanctions contrary to the European spirit from 14 EU countries, which have been imposed in a special feme procedure over Austria. [[Abg. You don't believe that!]] With pressure from the EU, some wanted to overthrow this government and still speak today in the presence of an Austrian party observer of criminal actions against this government, without this party observer protesting. [[Abg. Swimmling: But not against the people!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They wanted to overthrow the government. It started at the Holocaust Conference on 26 May. January, that was the last international action of short-term chancellor Viktor Klima. And from this conference, from this last international action, there were sanctions. After the minority government attempts of the socialists failed with the help of the liberals, because on 21 December the Socialists failed. There was a negotiating offer in this respect, which was confirmed here by the Government Bank and which was not addressed by the present Minister Schlögl, who conducted these negotiations, after the SPÖ-FPÖ minority government failed to comply with the FPÖ, we were tried to put international pressure on the People's Party. [[Abg. Saviour: Social Democrats!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, these attempts have failed and will fail! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So far, the Social Democrats have never condemned and always defended these sanctions. Whether they've picked them up, that's what history will have to judge. In any case, with our attempt to achieve a red and white-red cos we have been unsuccessful so far. But we won't let go. Unfortunately, God’s hope was again disappointed. The last international action of climate was Holocaust and the sanctions, the first of Gusenbauer was socialism in Paris, visiting the socialist party friends. I've actually expected Gusenbauer to go and say: These sanctions are unfair, we are talking about an exit. Since we were Austrian Social Democrats on 26 May, we were in a position to vote in favour of the European Parliament. In January, when the sanctions were planned for Austria, we also want to be there at the exit and offer our good services: Socialist comrades together against the unjust sanctions! – I would have expected that, and I would have applauded the Patriot Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What was the result? – "The press" writes today – quote –: "Friendly rejection" because the sanctions are not heightened. – This is a great achievement if you know socialist history in this context: They're not getting tightened. All other proposals can now be submitted in writing to Mr Gusenbauer. And you think – you have to let yourself be broken on the tongue – the Socialists in France say they will think about the efficiency of sanctions. What does that mean? . That means that Mr Gusenbauer told them that, unfortunately, these sanctions are not successful, they are more successful. The Austrian people reject this. Other sanctions – other sanctions! – need to be invented, more efficient. That's the presumption. I believe that it cannot be accepted as an Austrian patriot if a French minister speaks of criminal action against a freely elected constitutional government. [[Call the ÖVP: Awesome!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Gusenbauer did not question the sanctions. Like he could. The Social Democrats have always welcomed them. He has also blackened this government recently abroad with the socialists as an anti-European and xenophobic. And to the barrel the proposal to instruct the infamous place of the EU against xenophobia and racism to play over us the virtue watchman. Yeah, it's gonna be that far! This proposal discredits all the action. I have never seen such an unprecedented insult in my life as the opening of this EU Racism Office in Vienna. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Austrian soil, with our means of taxation, our Benita Ferrero-Waldner was insulted by the speaker's pulp and declared undesirable. Would you like to instruct this body to remove sanctions against Austria? I thank you for this objectivity. Here's what you really intend to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yesterday, after I have heard the word "craffosis" several times – Mr Kostelka has spoken about "craffosis", Mr. Gusenbauer, as the Lord has said, has spoken of "craffosis" – in all Lexika, there is no expression "craffthosis". There are many combinations with the word "hoses". There are empty pants, there are other pants. [[Calls:Full pants]] But I can only say one thing, Mr Kostelka, I would have expected Mr Gusenbauer to put on the force pants in Paris and remove the sanctions from Austria. I reject the word "monitoring". "Monitoring" means Albania, Russia, Chechnya and cetera in European law. I also reject any kind of Kuratel about Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We don't need any fact-finding missions, we don't need anyone here... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: EDU! In your own party work you know what you have to do, in Austria the sausage is yours!]] Mr Kostelka, I can tell you that this is the European People's Party and not the EDU. Whoever is wrong in the details is also in great error. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We do not need this because each one of you knows that the 14 EU countries have excellently equipped messages in this country. The 14 EU ambassadors know each report, each line, sitting with its delegates on the main committee, are monitoring Parliament. If they want to know what is going on in Austria, I must point out that they meet once a week for a lunch, they should exchange their reports. The problem is that no one reads this clearly in the state firms, otherwise no one could talk of us having a government in Austria, which could only come to the smell of a procedure under Articles 6 and 7 of the EU Treaty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer – I wanted to say now, but he is not here. This morning, when I was preparing for the speech, I did not think it possible that the clubman of a large opposition party would not take part in the general debate on the budget, which is incredible. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Breakfast with the...!]] Maybe it's over the protocol. Mr Gusenbauer did not convince the French Socialists of Austria, but heard of criminal action against Austria and did nothing against sanctions. We have developed an action plan against sanctions, ladies and gentlemen. The first phase: quiet diplomacy. These three months are over, and I congratulate our Foreign Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner and the entire cabinet on what was dealt with in these first three months with quiet diplomacy, serenity and contract loyalty. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now the phase two is coming. Public action is added to the silent diplomacy. We need foreign information. We need the help of the Austrian federal states, and my hope has changed from Gusenbauer to Häupl, because the national leaders will now formulate a red and white-red consensus, I hope. We need the support of the other parliaments. We need Austrians abroad, and our Austrian fellow citizens need legal protection if they are covered by those sanctions that have been taken against Austria and which are illegal. All of this is in the Action Plan. Everything is fully on the ground of the EU Treaty, and I believe that it is absolutely necessary for us to comply with and implement this action plan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, we do not give up the hope of a red and white consensus behind this action plan. Even though Mr Gusenbauer did not act as an Austrian patriot in Paris, but as a socialist international, I do not give up the hope that there will once be a consensus for this country and not a consensus against that country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of the speaker who had last turned right) Look in the right direction!]] I would warn everyone to believe that this will be an easy way until we get rid of the sanctions. The first step has been prepared with patience, effort and expertise. And there will be many more steps to be taken. Our aim must be to reach the end of the sanctions until the Council of Feira, by mid-June, the beginning of the exit. The beginning of the end! Until then, much patience and much work will be needed. We will do this work. But if up until then this scenario does not lead to success, then we must get the Austrian people to our side. If you refuse the red-white-red consensus, we must ask our fellow citizens for the red-white-red consensus in a popular survey, and I hope we will also receive it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It will, of course, be a constitutional referendum, a constitutional public survey, because everything that affects matters of membership, and everything that affects matters of sanctions under Articles 6 and 7 of the EU Treaty is Austrian primary law, must be approved by this House and is therefore, under Article 49b, a matter for which the Federal legislator is responsible. That's why no one should worry. We uphold this Constitution, we guard it like our apples. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How was the "constitutional"?]] Ladies and gentlemen! A hard way is still ahead of us. In the interests of the Austrians, we must very soon take away this pencil of lead at the foot, these sanctions. Our government is able to make great jumps even with this clot on the leg, but even bigger jumps will be made if we can again concentrate fully on solving our problems in Austria. I ask all citizens, but also all the representatives of the people in this House, to help us. Go with us on the path of a fully-fledged Austria in the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3266	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Trattner reported. – Please: alleged facts – actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3290	Mr Kostelka, you have claimed that the Federal Government has taken away the drinking tax from the countries and communities. – This claim is incorrect. First of all, the excise duty on beverages has been abolished by the European Court of Justice as an EU anti-EU measure. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But you agreed!]] Secondly, the former Minister of Finance could have already realized a 100% replacement solution. But the Edellinger budget hole was just too big that a 100 percent replacement solution would have been possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3332	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. The clock is set to 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3353	Mr President. Members of the Austrian Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated People's Lawyers! High house! The budget debate is traditionally an occasion for a general debate on the government's views and opposition positions. What came up with the first speech by Khol, Khol, was actually disappointed because the spark of an approach was not recognizable to enter into a possibly productive dialogue. The criticism of the government's selective savings course has already been dealt with in detail in the media, so that I can focus on a few points. It is not a saving course that meets all Austrians alike, according to their performance, but it is a highly selective saving course, which meets some, especially the women, the youth, disproportionately and completely inappropriately, while in other areas there is a blue-black filling horn – saving course to and consolidation requirement – in particular. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The blue-black filler horn is available for the NATO upgrade of the federal army and for the expansion of the surveillance state. We want to know exactly who is criticizing this government and how to put the critics to work. Above all, it is a saving course that is completely disproportionate to the financial weaknesses that affect women and those who need all our solidarity. It is a saving course that sets very clearly ideological accents and thus even conflicts with the constitution, which is, for example, – and this before the The background to NATO upgrading – one-sided savings measures at the expense of civil service, which is recognised as equivalent in the Constitution. It is a savings course that punishes cultural initiatives, social initiatives and small newspapers by means of postal tariffs. It is a saving course that attracts the screw in the expenditure of discretion – exactly where a modern, social, balancing and culturally promoting state would have to prove itself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it is more than this selective saving at the expense of all those who might be criticizing the government, it is also a saving course that is quite open and unscathed by system breaks. All social systems in Europe need reform because social reality is a dynamic one, and social standards must adapt to this reality. But what is happening now is clearly only ideologically colored, contradicts the goal of saving and affects women in particular. It is the implementation of a blue-black women's image that contradicts exactly the concerns of women's people's desire, which is why it is rejected by us. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The figures refer to how clear this trend is: 8 billion schilling more for domestic childcare. Under the tag "Karenzgeld für alle" you want to introduce a childcare allowance – but not for everyone, but for almost everyone. For those who have not paid in the funds, pour out the blue-black filling horn. For those who need it most, namely the single parents, if they earn more than a relatively low amount of earn, there will be no childcare allowance. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Who says that?]] This has been said by Minister Bartenstein in reply to our urgent question here in front of the House, and I hope that the members of the EIAs do not doubt the words of their own minister. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The constant repetition does not make it true either!]] I find this sad, Mrs Bauer, and I would be pleased if you could join the Green protest on this point. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – The childcare allowance is now a benefit of the family compensation fund and thus no longer a work-related insurance benefit, which in the past also had its deficits. The Greens have often criticised the former karenz system, but what is happening now is a total system break. For while at least the allowance for children, the family allowance – which we have always found to be right – is due to all children and is granted to all children, a benefit is now created from the Family Allowance Fund, which is no longer due to those who have always paid into these funds and who want to continue or need to be active. I ask you all: What does that have to do with justice? It is a breach of the system which affects those who really need our solidarity most. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And there are other system breaks. They have said again and again – also at the address of the SPÖ and the former Minister of Finance – that it is too much to spend on saving for the leaner years in the fat years. But what is your answer with this blue-black budget? It is precisely where there was purposeful commitment and where it was about avoiding preventive costs in the future, i.e. investing in occupational medicine, investing in the provision for persons who could harm, for example, in the course of insolvency, the funds have been cleared out, the money has been diverted. This too is a system break that makes it difficult to provide for the future and to use large savings potential in the future. I come to budget criticism in a narrow sense, based on the fact that it is not about saving you, but about ideology: 8 billion schilling for domestic childcare, zero at federal level for additional childcare facilities. You know what that means in the case of a deficit that no one is questioning. This means that childcare will no longer be extended, and the incompatibility of work and family will be continued, especially for the socially weak. Child care is often inexorable, inaccessible or nonexistent, and that is actually a shame in a developed industrial state. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't know there's a need for consolidation. Only in the way you comply with this – on the one hand, the filling horn, on the other, the pressing screw – is not really a will for consolidation, but only a blue-black ideology. And how do you react seriously, not by the political opposition, but by the economic research institute, but by the criticism – Mr Bundeskanzler – which concerns you – as it is, for example, expressed by the scientific side? They are talking about the nonsense of a statement that is, in fact, completely out of question and unquestionably so, that consumption taxes and fees hit the poor more than the rich. Federal Chancellor! Do you not share the view that it is more difficult for a single parent to apply the charges for a passport, for example, for a minimum pensioner, than for politicians? Don't you think Wifo is right? And why, I ask you, do not respond to this criticism, but speak on the 2nd. May of a "real nonsense"? Is this the new style of governance, which practice scientific criticism, to beg and to tell them of nonsense? We strongly reject such a style. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The criticism of the government is a very limited one, whether it be against the opposition, or against votes from abroad. It would be important, however, to preserve and preserve the international creditworthiness, the reputation of our country. And that's actually the main point of my criticism today. Let us look at what the Federal Government, what members of the government parties have done for this creditworthiness, for the reputation of Austria at home and abroad. [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr. Kabas, for example, or Mr. Schmid!]] In addition, Mr Bundeskanzler, in all forms, the question is: I have not heard of you much of such rides as the "West Bags Napoleon", the AK election posters, which, in all legitimate criticism that may exist at all chambers, really hit the bottom of the barrel, or also to name "Strolchi" to your address. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: "Strolchi" – what do you say about it?]] Klubobmann Khol called this "very funny" in a debate in the industrial association and meant that I miss the humour. I would say, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, ask the people how people see this, the working-room election posters of the liberals, the "Strolchi", the "Westenthaler...", the "West Bags Napoleon". [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good! – "Westenthaler-Napoleon"!]] "Westenthaler" – yes, there is a connection, because you, Mr. Westenthaler, can still remember such statements as "Scherzkeks" and the like. Is that the dignity of the house? Does that serve the reputation? I don't want to talk about the "dumping" and "dumping" and the word meaning of these new creations. Is this the reputation and dignity that you always conjure up and the clubman Khol in theatric words has tried to bring close to the house? What are you doing? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the "humping" of the Republic!]] [[Call to the liberals: Parliamentary blockers! Demonstriger!]] But these are only those, I say, on the verge of ridiculous and sad speech. Much more serious are statements and actions, all of which have been made by your coalition partner after the election. Federal Chancellor! You know, and there are also questions. What do you think of the hetzparols against Mrs Knoll, based on the liberal parliamentary club, which have led the superintendent to hardly go about her work? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Incredible to claim such a thing under the protection of immunity!]] Black on white! Is that not your address: Parliament Vienna, telephone 40110, folding 5855, Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl? Isn't that yours? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Read it completely! Read it out!]] Or, Mr Bundeskanzler, an invitation from the Guntramsdorf Freeman, an invitation to Jul celebrations, to the commemoration of the heroes who gave life in the fight against the enemy for our homeland. No word from the victims of the Shoah, no word from the war of attack against states that have defended themselves, no word of reconciliation and reparation! Or, Mr. Federal Chancellor, what do you think of it: Liberties in Salzburg stand against the United Parade, against which Love Parade, Punks and open homosexuality and demand to protect society by prohibiting such a thing from these criminal elements? Homosexuality as a criminal – see You do, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Read it before! Where does it say that homosexuality is criminal?]] What are you doing? Federal Chancellor! In the "Kronen Zeitung", the deputy liberal party observer of Mödling calls for the withdrawal from the EU as a community of artists, corruptionists and bureaucrats, associated with the termination of all payments. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You'll still be allowed to demand that!]] Well, do you see that? Consent from the free series – please log this! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I'm because everyone can say that, without it being censored!]] You see, who always conjure up agreement in Europe and see the need for understanding, which is the same, You also call on the partner states in the EU, as artists, corruptionists and bureaucrats, to stop all payments? ==References== March in the European Parliament on the occasion of a debate on human rights, racism and xenophobia by the FPÖ member Sichrovsky of the statement, the question when the antifascist Kasperl Theatre will have an end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That was the day you supported the EU because you were "shamed" for others!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Is that supposed to be a budget speech?]] These are only the most outstanding statements, which, Mr President-in-Office, should be presented to the Austrian people for their opinion. We would also be very interested in your opinion. Mr Klubobmann Khol spoke today, instead of having an objective debate, of a feudal procedure. Mr Klubobmann, you know what the legal history was, and you know what comparison you made here. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A criminal trial without hearing the accused!]] That is why I ask you in every way whether you really see this in view of these quotations and those statements which I have brought to your attention. Mr. Klubobmann! They are very strong in the distribution of accusations. On the other hand, you have always rejected requests for a committee of inquiry in which we could look at all of this. I ask you: Why? And I ask you, I ask the Chancellor: What do you think of these statements? And: What happened to you at the commemorative celebration at the Mauthausen Memorial, when the Polish ambassador, Mr Bartoszewski, came up with shocking words when he expressed his clear and intrusive support for arguments that anyone called the Austrian nation a miscarriage when he held back against it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He didn't even say that – but he gave a party-political speech!]] This is very exasperating, Mr Ofner, and you are right to do so. That also excites me, and we should have the debate in this House on it. You do not pass this debate, I tell you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I would have expected something else!]] And as a victim of National Socialism, as a survivor of concentration camp terror, Bartoszewski passionately refused that anyone in the country calls Nazi employment policy a "ordinary" one, there were only Members in your sector, and it was also you, Mr. Deputies, who did not agree and gave no applause to these statements. No applause! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: It was an event where the President had to correct a speaker!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, this is the debate that this country will finally have to hold, objectively, openly, but not blindly on that eye. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not in this way!]] Otherwise, you are the one who plays a very bad party-political game with these EU sanctions, because your real interest is in maintaining European criticism for as long as possible through such statements.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3705	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl on behalf of the European Democratic Group. The same is true of what I said in the previous actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3729	Mr President. In her almost hateful speech, Mrs Petrovic has repeatedly repeated untruthful... [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3768	I ask for the facts to be corrected and then for the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3783	I'm going to address the facts: Repeatedly, it was claimed that on my homepage a het campaign against the evangelical superintendent Mag. Gertraud Knoll. I put right and quote what's on my homepage: "Tolerance is the expression of respect for the human dignity of the dissident, but in my opinion cannot mean the uncritical recognition of positions directed against the foundations of our religion, our culture and our human co-existence." It's on my homepage. That's what I'm talking about. This applies generally and cannot be seen exclusively in connection with Mrs Knoll's comments. The discussion with Mrs Knoll relates exclusively to the compatibility between the church office and political activity.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3820	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. The clock is set to 15 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e3841	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs Petrovic, it has once again been reserved for you to hold a debate on very important issues, such as the budget, the EU sanctions, a debate that has so far been very interesting, to a level which simply does not correspond to the dignity of this House. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Petrovic! I'm asking you because You mentioned some attacks and quotations here: Have you forgotten that there have been demonstrations not too long ago, which you have organized and where we had to read on the transparency carried: Resistance! Resistance! Shut up, Haider on the wall!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's it!]] Have you forgotten that demonstrations have taken place that you have organized in the They were marched and read on transparents, for example: Cyclone B for the FPÖ!Unknown term type: "%s".? Have you forgotten that politicians of the Greens have called this government a villain and demanded quarantine for Austria? Have you forgotten that politicians of the Greens wished the government under the earth – literal quote! – "because she belongs there"? [[Abg. Haigermoser: such a Gaudi, what, Mr Kogler!]] And have you forgotten – I will come to Mr Kogler and explain why he laughs so much – that at the last plenary session of your group we had to experience a blockade of Parliament or at least the attempt to do so? And have you forgotten that in the last presidential session – and now I come to Mr Kogler – Mr Kogler has threatened with a raised finger that a blockade of Parliament can happen at any time? [[Abg. Wattaul: He should be ashamed!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Anarchists!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And you know, Mrs Petrovic, what happened last time here, this attempt at a blockade, was nothing but an attack on Parliament, democracy and the Republic, which has so far been unprecedented in history. I'm telling you that quite openly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In view of these listed incidents, down to the blockade you have tried here, you have no right at all to change other political groups. I know you have the right, with this inconsistency speech and with these attacks to cover your empty policy and your ignorance for the public, to check that you could not say anything about EU sanctions, on the subject of budget. Instead, you have focused your speech on attacks, on despondent attacks – I say quite openly – which have actually lost nothing here. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That is a matter of order and openness. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I am now turning to more important issues, because in fact one should not waste so much time for such statements. In reality, it is that way – and if we are today publishing the daily newspaper "Kurier", in which the latest OGM survey has been published, we see that confirmed, because the institute is coming to a summary: The government has stabilized, the opposition does not find any strategy. This is the testimony after 100 days of this new government, after 100 days of turning in Austria. That's good. And I'm saying, The government has not only stabilised itself, but the black and blue reform train is moving at full pace, despite fundamental opposition, despite unjust sanctions, despite unhapped threats of the union, despite SPÖ's heritage after 30 years of red financial policy. And that is already a considerable achievement of this federal government. There you can only congratulate! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is a huge balance sheet that we have taken in the first 100 days of our government. Klubobmann Khol has mentioned some points of it, and I may add: We have managed the budget renovation with a budget that we have inherited from you with a hole of 109 billion schilling, and we now have a budget deficit that is the lowest after 20 years. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Brussels is different!]] I emphasize: the lowest after 20 years! We have decided on a democratic package with more co-determination. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Where did you decide?]] The government has decided, and now it is in Parliament. We invite you to participate in this democratic package, which has more direct democracy, more participation of the people, here in this House! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have enforced a "action fairness", the equation of the workers with the employees in labour law. These include, for example, longer sick people and better pay for workers. Moreover, we have implemented a social security reform. Mr Kostelka, as you have mentioned today, will not be self-sustained when visiting a doctor, but there is a reform package to reduce the social security bureaucracy, which needs to be implemented in order to make the necessary reforms. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's still coming!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have driven the process of depoliticization. Keywords: OEIAG. In addition, pension reform, a rental reduction programme, is a reduction in electricity and gas prices on the rails. We have decided on a family package and a wage tax reduction. Moreover, additional wage costs are reduced by 15 billion schilling to secure Austria's economic location. Finally, just a week ago, we made a decision that we would give even greater attention to new communications technologies. Email for all paperless authorities: This should not remain a vision, but it will be implemented in the next few years in concrete terms – in the sense of more access to new technologies in our country! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a very proper balance sheet that we can show here. But we have decided something very important: an action plan against the EU sanctions imposed on Austria. This action plan – and you can, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition parties, turn and turn as you would like – has already been effective last weekend, a few hours after your decision in the government. This proves countless newspaper articles from the weekend to yesterday's day. I can quote a few headlines: "Both started in Austria as well as international thinking process on sanctions." "EU partners are ready for dialogue with Austria", writes the "Standard". Or: "In the Azores, the EU ice came first." Or: "A gap with the EU is finally open." In this article, it states among other things: "The "ironbreakers" in terms of rethinking were Ireland, Italy, followed by Finland, Denmark, Greece and Spain." Or: For example, the highly respected "NZZ" writes under the title "Azore High for Austria's Coalition Government?" "Europe listens to us again," according to: The Finnish Foreign Minister pleads for a rethinking of sanctions. Or: "Signs of relaxation" title the "Salzburger Nachrichten". Internationally, too, the weekend summit and the action plan against EU sanctions have really stopped. For example, the Madrid "El Pais" writes literally: "The EU's unity with regard to the political isolation of Austria is beginning to crumble." And now it's gonna be interesting, that's what it says: "The too urgent integration of Austria and the removal of time begins to night at the strength of the 14. The tension of the first days has already disappeared as well as the rude treatment of Austrian ministers at formal and informal meetings." Or: In Barcelona, "La Vanguardia" is entitled: "Only three EU countries are opposed to abolishing sanctions against Austria." [[Abg. Edlinger: All with socialist presidents! What about Comrade Chirac?]] Now to French newspapers; this is also very interesting. ==References====External links== May: "The "rejection front" gets jumps." – This is a very interesting article. It reports on the action plan of the Federal Government. And then it says: "On Friday, before the beginning of the meeting in Furnas, the Austrian Government has adopted an action plan in which it threatens its partners to hold a referendum on sanctions in autumn if nothing changes in terms of ‘normalisation’ of the situation." And then a minister is quoted in it, who did not want to name his name, who wanted to remain anonymous – I quote –: "From this point of view" – in other words, as a reference to the Action Plan – "it will now be clear to some that it is impossible or inappropriate to stick to the method of sanctions." This is a huge success for the government and for this action plan, and it proves that it is right. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] "A "critical mass" – writes "Le Figaro" – "that requires a change is to be constituted in the term." [[Abg. Edlinger: The expert Fischler thinks differently about this!]] Or: The "Handelsblatt" in Germany titles: "Front der Österreich-Boykotteure is showing cracks." Mr Edlinger! What I don't understand is that these headlines, which are so positive to Austria, are so painful that they have to talk in between for a while. This also exposes you as someone who, in fact, does not want to abolish the sanctions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: If you are satisfied with headlines! The headlines don't use anything, the sanctions have to go away!]] You'd have to be happy about these headlines. You should be satisfied if, for example, the German "handelsblatt" writes: "Front of the Austrian Boycotture shows cracks" and when positive articles come across Europe. I think this aberration, these positive reactions prove that the government's self-confident attitude is effective. This also happened – and this must be said quite clearly – due to the presence of the Foreign Minister at the Council of Foreign Ministers. Respect and recognition for the diplomatic skill of the Foreign Minister and this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] See, Mr Edlinger – I would also like to say: Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Colleague Van der Bellen, but unfortunately they are not in the house – it is not so difficult to be a patriot in Austria. [[Abg. Edlinger: But not on the football court!]] Perseverance, courage and uprightness in the sense of Austria are not only not prohibited, but expressly desired and paid off. More and more concerns about the EU's injustice sanctions are expressed, and I am really convinced that we will be able to remove these unjust, absurd and illegal sanctions – even if we are only at the beginning, only at the beginning of the road. I'll give you the right to: We're only at the beginning of a path. But we have chosen decisive removals properly. We have already stood up to a few throwaways and have always taken the right path. Therefore, the procedure of SPÖ chairman Gusenbauer, who also had to overcome dispensings, but has so far always chosen the way into the dead end, is completely incomprehensible and not understandable to me. Every time he appears, he chooses the way into the dead end. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] He did this again yesterday – probably these Europe-wide headlines were too positive –: Col. Gusenbauer traveled to Paris and met with the snipers against Austria – I emphasize: with the snipers against Austria – and gave them press conferences and once again missed a chance to bring the red and white consensus over the stage. [[Abg. Wattaul: Spell Teacher!]] If you look at what comes from this press conference in Europe with Gusenbauer and the head of the Socialist Group, then one of the cold showers runs over the back, ladies and gentlemen, and every patriotic Austrian. He is directing us from Paris on the side of one of the super-charf makers, which conditions are to be met by Austria, so that sanctions are not intensified, and not that they are lifted. And he judges that the Austrian government should stop its "anti-European campaign". – There is no anti-European campaign by the Federal Government, but there is a campaign for justice for Austria, against sanctions, and it will continue to exist! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is interesting to note that from Paris, he would also call for the popular survey to be cancelled on the sanctions. – It won't play! I can tell him and call him back to Paris: This poll will come if it fails to bring about an shoulder closure here in Austria, and if it fails to lift the sanctions. If the snipers prevail here in Austria and at the European level, we will look for consensus and end of the shoulder with the Austrian population and find it too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer further pointed out that we should draw up a national action plan against xenophobia and racism and that we should also make a firm commitment to enlargement. . I would like to propose to Mr Gusenbauer that we read the Government Convention of this Federal Government, especially the Preamble. If he had done so, he could have saved this claim. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The Haider should read the Preambel as well!]] He also wants to set up an observation group. So he wants to use the monitoring that he has rejected in the Council of Europe, for which he has been bragging, for Austria. A monitoring, as has been used most recently for countries such as Uganda and Albania, he now wants to do so at European level. I also say quite stone and clear: We don't need that! We don't need a big brother, we leave him on TV during the conversation, which we really don't need in Austria. We don't need that! We don't need that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer then said – and this is also interesting – that is why I must also mention it: at the press conference mentioned above: The signal that one cannot banalize the government participation of a right-wing party has arrived through sanctions in Austria. – This is the direct conclusion: Sanctions – Right-wing extreme party. And I say it every time and will say it again and again when Mr. Gusenbauer gives of himself such things: That being said abroad, but also domestically, is not party polemics, is not allowed criticism, but that is the most hateful nuisance. I would like to point this out in the name of the Freeman! This FPÖ is not a right-wing extreme party. You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: But it is permissible to see you like this!]] Keendet has this defilement of the two socialists with a proper headwashing for the SPD politician and chairman of the German Bundestag, Hans Ulrich Klose, who dared to ask for a reflection on the sanctions of the EU-14. The Frenchman then immediately said that he, Mr Klose, should consider whether such a request would be appropriate at the present time. So, headwashing and feeding, that's not to say. All the reports from this press conference, in all the reports on Gusenbauer's journey, can only be called for: Mr Gusenbauer, stay If you prefer to go home, take part in Parliament meetings, please do not travel abroad in the next few days, because this hurts Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Edlinger, one more sentence. . Mr. Finanzminister recently had a difficult mission to carry out at the Ecofin Council iin Brussels, and Mr Kostelka is right if he says that he has received political control there. However, you have to say: He has gotten there those political figs that you, Mr Edlinger, should have picked up. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It was clear from the outset that you were talking about how the German Finance Minister Eichel, for example, said in the daily newspaper "Die Presse" or how it was sent in the ORF. I quote literally: The criticism lies in the small effort they have made over the last two years. - Quote. This is an affluence for you and your wrong budgetary policy – and not for the new finance minister who has created a restructuring programme that can be seen, which he will enforce and which must also be enforced in the interests of the population so that we have a better future for our youth, for the workers and for the economy in this country and so that we can ultimately continue the process of rehabilitation and have stable conditions in our country in the coming years and not a budget policy as you have left us. [[Abg. Edlinger shakes his head in no way]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4181	I would like to take the expression "low-minded attack" to ask all the political groups to ask for it right at the beginning of the first day of the budget debate. – not to turn on a verbal escalation screw again, because no one knows where we land on the evening of the third or fifth day of the budget debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4208	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and in the House! Mr Westenthaler said in his speech that at the last meeting of the National Council a "blockade action" had been taken by the Greens, which represented a "low-rate attack" on democracy and freedom in that Republic. [[Abg. Wattaul: weren't you there? Where were you?]] On the other hand, I put it correctly: The blockade action, if one wants to call it so, the honourable Member Haidlmayr was an attempt to...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4237	Mr Oellinger! I'm sorry, but these are valuation questions. We have often discussed this: This can be corrected in the course of discussions. If the whole thing hadn't happened, then you can correct that it didn't happen – but how to evaluate it, that can't be the subject of an actual correction. I would ask you to put this right in the debates.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4258	Mr President. You must also give me the opportunity to finish my speech or to run it in such a way that I can explain the content. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's all right!]] I'll put it right: The action of Mrs Haidlmayr did not, in the view of the President-in-Office of the National Council at that time, represent a blockade, and the proper course of the meeting was guaranteed. [[Abg. Böhacker: Didn't happen!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Unfortunately there will be nothing more!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4343	Mr Oellinger! I have agreed with your wish that you can finish the sentence, but I believe that what is to be taken out of the actual correction is that. Please stop this! [[Abg. Oellinger sends himself to the next meeting.]] No, no, no, The Bureau's orders must be followed. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe this is the next blockade!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: I have another point!]] Mr Oellinger said he had another point. That's possible, but it's finished the speaking time of 2 minutes. Then this has to be done by another colleague of his club. I don't want to bring you a legitimate right! [[Abg. Ollinger leaves the speaker's desk.]] [[Abg. Mr Petrovic: Rules of Procedure!]] Please, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4417	Again, I would like to ask the question of the actual corrections to a debate in the President's office, because if, in the view of the President, which is ultimately the decisive, this was not an actual correction, I would ask myself, in all form, what an assessment of a request on the homepage of the Liberals or on the homepage of Mr Schöggl, is different from the statements made by Mr Öllinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4441	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! Of course, we can talk about it in the President-in-Office, and I do not claim that this difficult task of evaluation is always perfectly performed by me; I can also be mistaken. Only: The example of "Schöggl" is not appropriate, because a text was read and a text was read and opposed to an opposite claim is something different from the question of assessing how the action of Mr Haidlmayr had had an impact on parliamentarianism – even where we discussed this in the presidential session and finally achieved a minimum of consensus on this issue with great effort. However, I have now called for an actual correction by Mr Vergestnitsch. I'm asking my friend Fritz Vergestnich not to make it difficult for me. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4468	I hope I can comply with the President's views. – Mr Westenthaler has claimed that this government has done the fairness action. The fact is that this is not the case: the question of termination times is not fulfilled, the payment of the "Action Fairness" is limited exclusively to the workers and is even a basket money for the entrepreneurs inside.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4503	Before I give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I have a third actual correction. Please, Mrs Dr. Moser. . I would ask that the facts of the case be compared with the actual facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4536	Mr Westenthaler claimed that Green members of the Federal Government had called them "surk". I'm actually correcting – our clubman Van der Bellen has already rejected this fact in an actual correction, and I also reject it –: No one of the Green Members of this Federal Government has called it "shake"!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4569	President. — The debate is closed. It is agreed that the speaking time of a member of the government is 20 minutes. If such a speech lasts longer, this excess will be deducted from the speaking time of the respective parliamentary club. Please, Mr. Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4597	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, today we are talking about the general debate on the budget and therefore also about a first valuation of the first 100 days of this federal government. Of course, you can also see how emotionalally charged the discussion is at times – perhaps less today than it was a few weeks or months ago, but the nerves are of course still white. I still have it in my ears, and I still see the pictures in front of me – and that should not be forgotten – that at the beginning of this government activity, even before we had the opportunity to present you with a government statement, the opposition came with a vote of distrust. That was really unique in the Second Republic. I'm not going to forget that, because it hit me – like anyone who had taken place on the government bank. I still have in mind how one has tried to make the street mood in a way that makes it difficult for Austria to work in an objective, quiet manner. This should not be hidden today, because it has hit us all – and I believe, even the thinkers among the opposition politicians. Thirdly, the sanctions which have been imposed before. - It was not a response, it was a speeding action, everyone knows! Before this government was formed, these sanctions were announced and put into effect at the same time. [[Abg. Silhavy:... you Foreign Minister!]] – Let me also reflect my interpretation here. I do not try to emotionalize, but I just want to give you an honest insight into our feelings from my point of view. Maybe not everything is black or white: Perhaps not all that we have done so far is worth a triumphal memory, perhaps not all that comes to criticism is wrong from the outset, and perhaps we can manage to eventually come to a somewhat more differentiated assessment of the political in Austria. In my opinion, it would be high time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Whatever meets me – even in today’s debate – is that you always point to the other. I say: We made mistakes! None of us – whether in the FPÖ or in the ÖVP, whether on the government bank or in parliamentarian – are free of mistakes. I'm starting with: I don't think everything was 100% successful, but we tried. We also had very difficult situations to deal with, for example, the night after the Angelobung, we reworded the Federal Ministry Act, because we had no way to access the entire administration, because we had no possibility of serving the normal units of account, the computers and, and,. Past! – That was incredibly difficult. And that there has already been a budget commission at the first meeting of the new Federal Government, was not quite as obvious as it sounds today. The fact that we are presenting to you today a budget for 2000, which of course contains a number of one-off effects and therefore cannot contain the entire structural change, nobody knows better than we – Karl-Heinz Grasser, I and all those we are sitting on the government bank – but at least recognize that we have really tried, and that it is as ambitious as it has been possible in a few days and weeks to tackle a somewhat more ambitious budget recovery than the former Ministry of Finance has done. And that's important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] See the need for us to do something in the interests of social stability, in the interests of ensuring pensions and the social network – not because I or the Social Minister likes to raise the early retirement age, but because we have to keep the balance between the active population who eventually pays it, or the taxpayers who pay it, and the elderly who want a safe pension. And if we live longer, then, as in all European countries, the early retirement age must be increased gradually. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I already appeal to you and also to your sense of responsibility, because it is so easy to criticise, on the one hand, that our budget is still too little ambitious, but on the other hand to express fundamental criticism on every point: It's not fair, it's not balanced, it's not reasonable! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am accused of saying that the budget is not socially balanced, there is a clientele that is not at all affected. However, I would like to consider: Is that true? Is the accusation justified that, for example, the economy does not contribute to fiscal consolidation? – The facts speak a completely different language. However, the economic representatives – and this is also highly counted for them – do not refuse dialogue, negotiate, and in the end they contribute to the overall well-being in the interest of the people. Take the economic contribution to this 2000 budget as an example: We take 14 billion shillings from employers' contributions to renovating this year's budget. – I say: Thank you, Austrian entrepreneurs, for this understanding! and thank you also for representing your interest that it does not refuse the dialogue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Conspicuous: What kind of means are these?]] Take the beverage tax replacement solution. – This tax, by the way, has not, as has been said, abolished the Federal Government – that is quite a dispassion! – but the European Court of Justice. I would have preferred to stay with that 10 percent drink tax – according to the old principle: old tax, good tax. That was always... – No, that would not have been possible, because this would have meant that we want to avoid a judgment by the European Supreme Court with any law enforcement methods. [[Abg. Dr. Heindl: That would have been possible!]] The revenge would have been terrible! In the interests of legal certainty, we have prepared a replacement solution. And who will pay them? – The Austrian economy, mainly Austrian tourism, is ready to do so. I say: Thank you, Austrian economy, for being ready to join us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Or take, for example, the question of forced workers! - I know that's a delicate subject that costs money. But we face this process of history and want to do something, but not because we are legally committed, but because we feel morally committed. – And who, please, pays in this area? That should be said once! – Maria Schaumayer is currently negotiating with Heinz Kessler, a well-known industrialist, and various other economic operators, in order to bring about as great a victim as possible, a contribution from the Austrian economy as possible. So the legend that there are beneficiaries who do not contribute to the overall good is wrong. She is thank God, and I thank the Austrian economy for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Something else hits me because it's a legend that can get dangerous: It is claimed that Austria does not stand up to its history. – Ladies and gentlemen! Read Hubert Feichtlbauer's article published in today's "Presse" issue. This is a man who certainly does not belong to the radicals in the country, he is a stiller; but the voice of reason does not necessarily have to be loud. He has the relevant data – laborious! – brought together, he is writing a book that should be given to every contemporary interested person, actually to the schools, to the compulsory reading. In this article he cites a whole series of sources, including Gabi Holzer, an Austrian diplomat, who, under the title "Friended Neighbors", compared the history of Austria with that of Germany. We have made our work on history just as committed, perhaps even more committed than others! And Hubert Feichtlbauer presents these figures: Against 100,000 people, it was found in Germany, in Austria at 137 000 – but we already know that Austria is a little smaller than Germany – and 6 500 were legally sentenced in Germany, 23 477 in Austria. There were 12 death sentences in Germany, 43 in Austria. Of course, there are other countries that have also given judgment, death sentences, punishments and, and, have spoken. We must also remember that the Allies have reserved the most serious offences for their legislation: The British military force has carried out in Austria 25, the American 16 processes; the British have 53, the Americans have eight death sentences. I therefore say: Let's stop pretending as if Austria had never done anything to rework its history! That is wrong, it is proved to be wrong! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Petrovic! I found Bartoszewski's speech remarkable, and I think we have to hold it because this man has suffered a lot as a victim of the concentration camp. The accusation that we are not criticised cannot therefore vote because we have to endure this criticism. Austria has invited Bartoszewski, so we have to listen to this. – Although we may differ in one point or another, for me freedom of expression and diversity are also part of listening. And that we've all listened, in my opinion, is a remarkable signal. The fact that President Heinz Fischer spoke with a very specific comment at the end of the event and that something has been done about it deserves respect – from me and hopefully from you too! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP, as well as to representatives of the SPÖ and the Free Trade Unions.]] Mrs Petrovic! But I also ask for serenity: You must also remember the Austrian victim! It must be possible, without false suspicion of the Austrian fallen – 380 000! – to remember, without at the same time throwing everything else into a pot. Because we also specifically remember the victims of Shoah in a very special moment. And it must also be possible to give right to the Austrian prisoner of war generation or to think of the fallen ones. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: The Westenthaler wants...!]] So if we want to come to a new culture of discussion, perhaps conflict, but also consensus, then, I think, we have to endure something too – and this is one of the first things to do with a little humour, and please do not put every single explanation on the gold balance of the trial protocols! I stop the "strolchi" and others may have to hold the "Asterix" or the "Troubadix". [[Call the SPÖ:Lump!]] – Yes, this is not one of the highlights of linguistic emanations, we know that ourselves! I am convinced that then, when everyone starts with himself, if, for example, everyone is dealing with the use of the word "fascist" a little more carefully and does not want to put everyone on the wall or kill everyone at the same time, but at the same time does not immediately go to the complaint and question the freedom of art, a piece will go on. Let's start with ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now on the sanctions: These sanctions are taking place! They meet me above all, since I – I repeat it – am one of those who, in 1994 after Alois Mock, landed through a campaign, have contributed a great deal – I believe – to that two-thirds majority in this referendum. These sanctions, they not only hurt, they also meet, they discriminate against us, they discriminate against the country! If the Austrian ambassador in Paris has no access to Cabinet members, no access to the staff of the Prime Ministers, to the ministers, to the President, then this is more than just a painful gesture! That's what I'm saying. It hinders Austria, it hinders our development possibility to do something for Austria. And if the French Minister of Defence refuses to sign an invitation to the Austrian Minister of Defence, this is more than a question of courtesy, namely a question of Article 10, which requires each Member State to promote and support the other Member States through full cooperation. [[Abg. May. Posch: Did you also hear what the ambassador said?]] - That's the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we are hindered by international votes, for example in the context of the United Nations, then this is a scandal! However, I am pleased that – I am happy to inform you today – all of this does not benefit, because in one of the last elections in four ECOSOC commissions – there was a lot of it by aclamation, but the EU has given in, but one had to be elected – Austria has received most, namely 45 votes, followed by France with 44 and Switzerland with 39 votes and so on. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Effective!]] I am proud that we have had such a success with our diplomats! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But it would be even more beautiful if really a clear, sounding Call from Austria would come: Get away from the sanctions! – If the SPD politician Klose, the chairman of the German Bundestag's Foreign Policy Committee, says: Get away from the sanctions, they're "obsessing" – literally! – "spirits and letters of the EU Treaty", I would have liked to hear this from our social democratic friends abroad, also in Europe, even in Paris. And that's not too much to demand! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Although we, the government, must be careful – I know, no triumphal hoop – the Azores were not the solution, but it was a big first step that our foreign minister succeeded in making it visible that the majority of the European partner countries are actively trying to change their position. I thank Benita Ferrero-Waldner for this great commitment. That's what she has – and only her! – achieved: Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We must be careful that we do not cross over – I know that – and each of us will stick to it. But I also ask you not to cross. Mr Gusenbauer! Talking in France about the anti-European campaign of this federal government is not only wrong, but a real mistake, because it is precisely with this that the resentments, which are awake, are startled. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction SPÖ) Österreich-Verneider!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: ( towards SPÖ) State traitors!]] You know me long enough, so you know: As long as I am Federal Chancellor, there will never be an anti-European campaign of this federal government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: I hope that's all recorded in the Minutes!]] In a democracy, however, criticism of a non-democratic measure by another country or the European Union must also be allowed. So far that everyone else believes that we need to get probation workers or monitors or observers – or I don't know what – in front of the nose, it can't go! This sometimes reminds us of the League of Nations of the 1920s. I have to say quite honestly, there's something going on with me. We like to be ready to talk to everyone. The European People's Party does not come as a senior teacher, but there come awake, curious, partnering people who want to know what is happening in Austria. Sol-che guests and such observers of the domestic policy situation are welcome at any time. In my opinion, the EU Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, which you have proposed, has played an incredible amount of credit through the way in which it has acted unobjectively, unscientificly and unilaterally. That can't be a basis for us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why we will benefit from the next few weeks until the Feira European Council! If we put this together wisely, I think we could make a start to a solution visible. That would be something, because I realize that no one can lose his face. So that's not the point. But this also applies to Austria, in order to double this, because Austria also has a face, including this government, all of us sitting here in the House! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] So we are working on such a reasonable solution, we are trying to do it! I can say to the budget: This is a first step, I think it is socially balanced and well thought out. I also say that it would happen to me if you simply hide away all those things that we have carefully placed or put to the discussion in recent weeks. Of course, total equality between workers and employees, including periods of termination, has not yet been presented to Parliament, because this is a social security issue. I am still very pleased, Mr President, that you have repeatedly said in certain political discussions, that there are things that the social partners themselves need to clarify, and the notice periods belong to them. - Please, sit down! They will have any support from the government side. I am one of the happier people, the faster the total equality between workers and employees between the social partners is solved cost-neutrally. That would be an important concern. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We submit to you a law that brings equality in the case of illness, which means that one quarter of a million workers will get more money for a longer period of time. [[Abg. Conspicuous: But this is not cost-neutral!]] We will soon present to you – we hope to be so far in autumn – a modern right of employment, which does not exclude half of the workers, but includes them. This, in turn, is to be solved without any additional burden, simply by means of a modern social law. We will present you with a family reform that will bring mothers, fathers and children more. – Madam Commissioner Petrovic, I can assure you that we will increase the limits of trust. How high are we going to discuss, but I believe that we must treat all mothers, fathers and children the same way. It must be based on misunderstanding from the fact that there will be some misconceptions. This is not what this Federal Government has in mind, and it will not present it to you either. But the following must also be clear: Carnation money for all or child money for all is a vital social policy achievement, a milestone that we would like to present to the House in the foreseeable future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One last point I would like to briefly explain so that my time is not covered: A Wifo study is always reported. That's not correct. This is an article published by two employees of the Business Research Institute for the journal "Economics and Society" of the Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it!]] Freedom of expression means that everyone is allowed to publish, only it is not... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The content is also important!]] Of course! But the content is also very interesting, for the two authors say that the expansion of family support undoubtedly favours the less-income households relatively stronger. – Why then do you actually polemise against the strengthening of the family support we are proposing as a government? The second thing these two authors also say: A reduction in additional labour costs seems to be useful in the long term for local and employment policy reasons. – So why do you always polemize that we are making billions of gifts to entrepreneurs when the authors quoted by yourself say that reducing the additional wage costs helps jobs. And that's the only thing we want. Now we have around 45 000 jobs more than a year ago. We want to continue along this good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4961	The next speaker was Mr Gusenbauer, who spoke as Mr Schieder, according to § 60 para. 5 GOG has resigned the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e4997	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My dear members of the Federal Government! High house! I believe that if we want to discuss in a serious and open way what solutions there are for Austria and the Austrian Federal Government to overcome foreign policy and European political isolation, it is necessary to have a holistic view of things and not to permanently separate between the language and, I say, the agitation that is being used in Austria, and what is being tried to communicate to the partners in the European Union. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right! That's right!]] If you have listened closely to the reports of the Foreign Minister on the past weekend in the Azores, you will have informed you that the most difficult thing was to communicate there that, in the current situation, the Austrian Federal Government intends to put pressure on the European Union with a popular survey in Austria, and that it was one of the most difficult points to convey that there is at all an interest in finding a way out of the situation. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Go!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were you there?]] And all the others, including the Austrian Commissioner Franz Fischler and the Commissioner for Easter Enlargement, Dr. Busek, clearly confirm this: This course does not lead to any solution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! They contacted the Portuguese President-in-Office Antonio Guterres and meant that the FPÖ's party was held on 1 January. May and the changes that will take place there would be a good opportunity and a reason for the European Union or the 14 Member States to try to change their attitude. In relation to your initiative, therefore, all European partners have followed closely what happened and changed at this FPÖ party meeting. They have come to a clear conclusion: Nothing's changed! The FPÖ continues its traditional agitation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You haven't changed anything either! You still have 300 million schilling debts now!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] It is absolutely illusionary to believe that the European partners are only taken note of what they are told at the Council of Ministers. It is very likely to be taken note of what happens here in Austria every day. It has therefore also been noted which failures and what accusations there have been against the Austrian Federal President at the Vienna Congress of the FPÖ. And this upsets our partners in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: That must not be true! That's a terrible thing!]] Federal Chancellor! If you say today that we don't need monitoring and caretaker, because this has the smell that we need to be monitored, I would like to remind you of your own proposals. To your own suggestions! [[Abg. Großruck: The Federal Chancellor needs no instruction!]] At the beginning of your government, you yourself suggested that it should be possible for the European Union, after a certain short review phase, to be completed before the end of the Portuguese Presidency, to take the view that this federal government is not as bad as the European partners mean. [[Abg. Großruck: The Federal Chancellor is so experienced! He doesn't need any instruction.]] They themselves have suggested that there should be a review by the partners. Today, you're distanced from it. Federal Chancellor! You do not have a clear course on this question because you give in to the pressure of the FPÖ and do not follow the interests of the country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As it is strange that you take the view that the sanctions that harm you personally damage the effectiveness of the Austrian Federal Government – they were, after all, Foreign Minister and therefore need to know how signals are received in Europe – and that, after you have refused to do so for some time, you are forced by Jörg Haider and FPÖ to make the Council of Ministers decision last Friday and thus put the EU partners in the window. You know very well that this does not lead to success, and you do it anyway. You do it because you are driven by the FPÖ and because you are obviously in a negative race with this FPÖ. – And this is harmful for Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the European Union there are many who are willing to think about how to get out of this situation, because the existence of foreign anti-racial parties is not a special phenomenon of the FPÖ, such parties exist also in other countries of Europe; just as there is xenophobia and racism outside of parties, as it is also reflected in the inflammation of asylum homes in Germany, as it is expressed in the persecution of foreigners in southern Spain and elsewhere. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: What does that mean? That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. Aumayr: This is immense!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is huge! If that's not an order call! That is the accusation of a criminal offence!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: This speech is immense! These charges! That must not be true!]] [[Further calls.]] The EU partners are aware that this is a pan-European phenomenon and that a fundamental approach to this issue needs to be sought. But if you think that with this attitude, which you convey here in Austria, you can, with these rhetorical power acts, open up a margin to reach something in Europe, then be fooled. [[Prolonged calls.]] Please stick to what the Commissioner Fischler, who knows the situation, recommends! Keep up with what the foreign minister says abroad and do not represent you in Austria! Keep in mind what comes out in our discussions with the partners, that they are looking for sensible solutions that guarantee that every single European country will be treated equally in the future, that there is a common strategy against politically unpleasant phenomena and that there is also a solution strategy for Austria at the same time! This is only to be solved in dialogue and not in confrontation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And even in Paris, where the French are constantly subject... [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are a tailor!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What you're doing here is a scandal! I'll tell you! You're a cousin, I'll tell you! You're an Austrian pursuer!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A tailor! He's a super-neighbor!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You go out here and yell at the FPÖ! That's unheard of! That's a scandal, how you act here and abroad! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You're a top tailor!]] [[More lively calls.]] It would be a difficult situation for Austrian parliamentarianism if the level of good habits were defined by Mr Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Even in Paris, although France is repeatedly assumed to have a particularly radical attitude, it is absolutely willing to think about how to deal with this situation together. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's it! That's it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Remember that you kissed the earth in Moscow! Moscow's red earth!]] If there are such signals and such a willingness, it is the right answer in a careful dialogue to extend these possibilities – this I share the view of the Ambassador of the Republic of Austria in Paris, with whom I discussed this question yesterday, fully content – to take step by step the opportunity to get out of this situation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But this is very interesting!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] The worst is your agitation and Your screams that no one can use in this country. Because it is not about what you want to hear or what you want to hear, but about what is useful to Austria and its population. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards the freedom of movement]] That's the most important thing!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5384	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5406	Mr President. I propose the creation of the provisional protocol to determine the statements of the previous speaker, who here has made the accusation of racism to a party. According to § 283 of the Criminal Law, racism is the accusation of hatred and is the accusation of the breach of the Constitution due to the Constitutional Discrimination Convention in Austria. If this accusation has really been raised, I'm requesting an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5442	I'll have the minutes presented. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5475	Mr President. I understand that Mr Khol has come up a little bit, because the Rules of Procedure on this point are very clear. He could only have asked the president for a call on the matter or order. There is no authority to do so. A political debate in this House must be possible! If not, then the free speech is really questioned.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5515	Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! Mr President Fischer has informed me that he has already requested the protocol at the request of Mr Klubobmanns Westenthaler, and I will read through the Minutes as soon as I have it in my hands. For business treatment: Mr President, Mr Fischer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5542	Mr President. I now have no other way of making a necessary clarification. During my presidency, two requests have been made to me to add protocols, namely by Mrs Petrovic, on account of the accusation of "high treason" and by Mr Westenthaler for the accusation of "racism". In both cases, I have already made this happen during my presidency, and I have informed Mr Prinzhorn, as he himself has done, of this. The creation of the protocol is already underway. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5588	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Edler is next spoken on an actual correction. You know the provision of the Rules of Procedure. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5615	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr. Bundeskanzler claimed that the fairness action was a cost-neutral scheme. [[Abg. Haigermoser: He didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not true! He didn't say that!]] [[Further lively calls to the liberals.]] I'm actually correcting: This regulation by the Federal Government is essentially worsening the right of vacation and costs the fellow workers billions. It is an essential gift of around 2 billion schilling to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5673	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5698	Mr President. Federal Chancellor Schüssel said in his speech that the economy is making a contribution of 14 billion schilling for budget recovery. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: 15!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He said 15!]] I'm actually correcting: As we all know, the funds from the Family Allowance Fund, which are devoted to budget adjustment, are contributions made by the workers of our country and not by the economy. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, that's not true!]] This is a further proof of the social disparity of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5778	Mr Gaßner spoke in favour of a further actual correction. Please, start with the set to be corrected and face the correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5802	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! They claimed that the Austrian economy was wearing the replacement solution for the drinking tax, and thanked themselves for that. I'm actually correcting: Both the old form of the beverage tax and the new replacement solution to be decided on of the beverage tax bear exclusively the consumer, and the failure from it is exclusively borne by the Austrian communities, which in turn falls to the consumer. [[Call the SPÖ: So it is!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5838	Mr Spindelegger spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5859	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have just experienced and experienced in the last few days how to conduct foreign policy. There was a foreign minister Ferrero-Waldner, who did something very remarkable last weekend in the Azores. It has established that the General Council is talking about these sanctions against Austria at all, and – see! – it has also established that six Member States of the European Union have come to know that these sanctions should be reintroduced again, that a mechanism should be found to get rid of these sanctions. I would say that a truly remarkable achievement by Mrs Foreign Minister, for which I thank you very much. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, we have also experienced how Mr Gusenbauer has set up a foreign policy initiative. He went to France and congratulated us on four new proposals, which I do not really want to evaluate more closely. There are four new scourges for Austria, which he has announced there, ladies and gentlemen. But he returned with a real good news. The good news was that the French Prime Minister assured him not to intensify the sanctions, but not to remove them. Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison of these two foreign policy initiatives makes us sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Minister for Foreign Affairs is doing what the Austrians want: It is trying to avert these sanctions from Austria. Mr Gusenbauer also tries something, I do not want to interpret what, but I would say that the objective of the Austrians was not good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am very sorry that Mr Gusenbauer is very rare in the room, especially when it comes to budgetary questions, which, I believe, have a certain significance for this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] He obviously has nothing to say about it – he has not said a word about the budget either. But I would like to make a comparison, ladies and gentlemen, because I somehow understand that, as a social democrat, we cannot be pleased about this budgetary situation. I believe that it keeps the SPÖ with public debt exactly the same as with the EU sanctions. First of all: Neither the sanctions nor the public debt are condemned, but they are taken note of with a certain degree of vision. Secondly, Nor does one combat the sanctions or the public debt, but one takes this into account in the political calculation. Thirdly, One tries to give the impression that the sanctions actually only affect the government and not the Austrians, one also tries to give the impression that the public debt only meets the state and not the citizens. Both, ladies and gentlemen, are a fatal error. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With the sanctions, we know that the Austrians are clearly on the side of those who want to avert them. They identify with Austria and with the Austria accused in this Europe, even though they may personally have felt nothing of the sanctions. That Austrian citizens must stand straight for the debts of the last 30 years, ladies and gentlemen, this is a painful message, but it is clear to every Austrian. I believe that the opportunity offered by this 2000 budget and the debate on it today is really a one-time one. This is a departure from the course 30 years of debt policy in Austria under social-democratic, socialist responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Where have you been for the last 30 years? Where were you?]] When I look at these figures, just after the Ecofin Council, which took place in Brussels on Monday, it is really not that you can rejoice as an Austrian, ladies and gentlemen! And I think, Mrs Colleague, you too will not be pleased about it. If we look at the budget balances alone, then it can be seen in comparison with the others that there are now already five states that do not generate a negative budget balance per year. If Denmark, Ireland, Luxembourg, Finland and Sweden no longer have a net deficit but conclude positive, that is a certain signal. The fact that Austria is at the end of the scale in 2000 with a minus 1.7 percent is truly not a glorious leaf for us, ladies and gentlemen! Other countries, such as Greece, which is now making a negative 1.2 percent move to the euro-nears, have depended on us. I would say that we have the "red lantern" in Europe, is truly not a sign of the financial policy of recent years. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Fischl.]] If we look at the entire debt ratio of Austria, then we have to say that it is similar. We even had to register an increase from 1998 to 1999. It will not go downhill until the year 2000, and we will be approaching the target that was set at 60 percent in the Maastricht criteria by being 64.1 percent in 2000 – only followed by Belgium, Italy and Greece. – This is not a praise for Austria, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this comparison with other countries of the European Union shows us the seriousness of the situation. This is certainly not a piece of fame – neither for this House, which has also taken part in the budgets, nor for everyone else, Mr President, that is, for no one, who has been responsible. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: For your party!]] But one thing is clear, and I can retain that as a fact: In every federal government there is a clear division of tasks, and that the Minister of Finance has been set up for 30 years by your group, I think it would make it necessary for you to show a little insight, a little remorse for the piles you left behind. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr Wittmann: The Council of Ministers decision was unanimous!]] We are now faced with the need to take action. Today we are discussing measures for the Supreme Institutions, savings that are painful for all of us. Everyone would like to add something there and there. If we look at the debt service of Austria alone with over 90 billion schillings a year, which was taken up for something that was wasted in the past to burden next generations, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what we could not do with over 90 billion schillings a year. Something could be done in the labour market, in the social field, but also in promoting development aid or other important projects for this Republic. It is a pity, but I am still asking you to take all the painful measures we have to take: Where's the alternative? Have you shown us from the Social Democrats that there is an alternative? – You would only suggest that we continue the course of the last 30 years. To this end, we can only say: No, that would be irresponsible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is irresponsible to add debt to the next generations and to live at their expense today. It is an irresponsible policy that has been made by the Socialists and Socialists in Austria over the last 30 years, and we need to see the opportunity today and clearly say no to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this 2000 budget, the following and the 2000 debate will offer an opportunity: It is the first opportunity to get away from this debt policy at the expense of next generations. Secondly, it is probably also an opportunity to end this, to believe that the state will somehow judge it, but one must also be aware of the responsibility one carries when debt is made in that state as a citizen. On the third hand, it is also possible to develop from this difficult budgetary situation reforms that help modernize the state rather than accentuate it in debt policy. This modernisation also in the direction of social projects, such as a redundancie, equality between workers and employees, as well as a pension reform to which we still have to go, but which is necessary because the people are getting older, we should accompany them actively and contribute to the success of these reforms, so that we can also have the opportunity to make not only a policy of egoism for the moment in the future, but also a policy of generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e5987	The next speaker, Mrs Mag, spoke. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6008	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies' lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! On the occasion of my speech on the general debate on the budget, allow me to refer in particular to the speech of the Federal Chancellor. I am referring to his remarks mainly because he has said a remarkable little about the budget and remarkably much about other things. It was similar with Klubobmann Westenthaler, who devoted his speech exclusively to opposition and not government work and budget, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! At the beginning of your findings on how Austria deals with its past: Federal Chancellor! I think you said a remarkable sentence today that I would like to quote once again. You said: Listening is a remarkable signal in connection with Austria's processing of its history, and listening to this has also focused your speech. Federal Chancellor! If your personal position and your personal attitude regarding the past handling with the sentence: Listening is a remarkable signal! To sum up, I can only say that is very thin and corresponds to the tradition of the post-war history of Austria: Nothing's changing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, tell me: Who is it who is constantly claiming that nothing, absolutely nothing would have happened in the context of dealing with our history? – On the contrary, those who may think such a thing are those who produce the pressure and determine the pace that actually happens. I would just like to point out the things I have experienced myself in the National Council in recent years and which I actually regard as significant signals. I do not mean listening to the speech by the former Foreign Minister of Poland, Bartoszewski, as part of the commemorative event to which you clearly referred in your speech. The establishment of the Nazi Fund for the victims of National Socialism, the so-called National Fund, has indeed been a remarkable sign – also seen in the international context – but, Federal Chancellor, what the Fund does, and what happens are gestures, gestures that the Republic puts in adversities to the horrors experienced by the victims. They're gestures, and they're limited to it. Of course, I have said this several times, and colleagues of my group have mentioned it again and again - the speech by the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Vranitzky, which he held here in the House in the context of a so-called Yugoslavia debate. He has recognised Austria's co-responsibility for the horrors and horrors that have happened and happened to the victims. That was the first confession from such a high position. A remarkable signal! That is why, Federal Chancellor, it will still be allowed – after all, 55 years have passed since the end of the war – to show a bit of impatience and say that the pace is too slow, the statements are too soft, they are too nebulos, they are too little precise, and this also in connection with the work of the Mrs Government Commissioners, how they resolve the whole matter of compensation – better said, compensation payments, it is not compensation – for the forced workers. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the German Federal Chancellor, let us not, and I specifically, assume that we are first and foremost dedicated to the victims of National Socialism, and only then, because there is much less to be recovered there, but equally intensively, to the further victims of the war, namely the fallen, their relatives, the prisoners of war, the participants of the war. Since I've been in the world, I haven't seen anyone deny that it had been difficult for the people, namely the Austrians, during the Second World War. Everyone had their husbands, their brothers, their uncles, their cousins, their children in war. It was hard, and they fell, the post-war period was hard. But that's not the problem, Mr. Federal Chancellor! The Republic has paid pensions, has done so today and has tried to provide as much assistance as possible. But for the other groups, namely the direct victims of National Socialism, hardly anything has happened for decades, and in some areas nothing has happened. That is why, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, it is precisely you and our mission to dedicate these groups of victims to us in the first place. And I expect that from you, Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Pittermann.]] I do not want to give the impression that it is only about the criticism of your person, but it is now also about the budget debate. It's about money, although money can never cover the horrors that people have experienced in any way, make up for it, do it again. Money can always be just one gesture, because what has been experienced is not to do well with any sum of the world. That is why we now have such a concern that, two months ago, I said this, you have now shown a certain willingness, especially with the mandate of President Schaumayer, but also by means of other signs that have taken place outside, to devote yourself more intensively to these problems than you, Mr. Federal Chancellor, have done it as Vice Chancellor in the old government. My criticism has never been addressed to the parties as such or party representatives, but to the representatives of the Republic. The parties have been made up of various party representatives over the past 55 years, and this is a too slow action or not to act, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You now have the task of pushing up 6 billion schilling – that is the number that Dr. Schaumayer has mentioned several times in the past; I say now a biterl salopp. This is a difficult task, and you know the willingness of the House or opposition to participate where it goes, not only in the formulation of the law, but also in the task of providing this sum. But this is the question in comparison to the problem that has not yet been addressed: What about all the other unresolved things? – I put it together under the word "arrangement" – just too simple. Federal Chancellor! I urge you to push a little at the pace. It is also about victims who, now biologically, are in their last phase of life and could also receive a gesture. This is also a question in which every month, every quarter year and every year in which nothing happens is lost. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, it is also so essential, on the one hand, to devote the contributions to the political action of those who directly participate – whether symbolically or monetaryly – and on the other hand, to do so, so to speak, remembering that this saying "never forgets!" in the good post-war tradition of the Austrian parties. This antifascism in our country has not been the monopoly of a party, for the first Federal Chancellor of the Republic, Mr. Ing. Figl, was a concentration camp prisoner, was inmate of a concentration camp. He too made a significant contribution. So that's not something you can say to: Oh, that's not so much for us, because all this is social-democratic history!, no, that's a common task of all parties, and now it's primarily your job to do something here. That is why, Federal Chancellor, you clarify the "listening as a remarkable signal" a little more precisely, so that no misunderstanding arises! Federal Chancellor! Now to other things you have said here. At the beginning of your speech, you spoke of how unique it would have been in the Second Republic that a government, even before it was constituted and praised, had already been criticized in a special session. Federal Chancellor! The one-offness was not in the fact that this special meeting was already in place before, but the one-timeness lies in the composition of this government. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is now unique that a party with such a party leader – at that time he was still there; now he is not on paper, but practical – in the government. This party – and this, Federal Chancellor – has happened long before you have announced that you will form a government with the liberals – in documents on which Austria has only a slightest influence, called right-wing and racist, by an institution that has 40 Member States, namely the Council of Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: 41!]] And that is all the comments that have been made: In addition to other European parties, the Freedom Party is a right-wing, a dangerous, an xenophobic party. That's it! Unfortunately, this is a fact that hurts. I would rather live in a country where there are no such parties. But that was determined by the Council of Europe – before the government of the Freemans, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I think so! Lock in! Take away passports! A scandal, what you're saying!]] You have also said in today's statements that it is really incredible that mood has been tried on the street. You probably meant those tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens who did nothing but use the opportunity of their protests, as opposed to me, for example. [[Abg. Zellot: 50 injured cops!]] I can make Parliament's speeches. You can reply. They have "press hours", "report" performances and "cib" broadcasts, but the individual citizen, in a situation where she wants to express dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction and thus also the desire to make corrections, can only go to the street. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] They are doing so, and that you are here as dangerous that you make it contemptible – this, Federal Chancellor, does not prove to be too great a concept of democracy that you have! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Awesome!]] Now, Mr Bundeskanzler, to your third comment or to your third subject complex, your multiple thanks to the economy: I have not thought of anything when you thanked three times the economy for fiscal consolidation. For I thought that now the Chancellor of the Federal Republic will go on and will also thank those who truly make the essential contribution to fiscal consolidation, namely the citizens – those who now have 1 000 S and no more 500 S to pay for the passport; those who have to pay 1 000 S and no more 550 S as in the past for the vignette, regardless of how poor they are, how rich they are, how mobile or how often they travel. Perhaps someone will only get away once in ten years, and that will cost 1 000 p. Yours – I think I read it in an interview in the "Kurier" – can't be too much to pay once a year for a border crossing 100 s, for me, Mr. Federal Chancellor, it is an incredible ignorance to those whom we call the little citizen and the small citizen. It shows, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you are completely lacking the sensitivity to this if on the day of the general debate you three times thank the economy and speak here of 14 billion schillings that the economy has contributed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] However, I do not know what you mean by this, Mr Bundeskanzler. Do you think, for example, that the economy is now particularly favourable, that the tax revenue is greater and that this way more is going into the state bags? What did you mean? Or did you perhaps mean that the money of the insolvency fund is now being used? Of course, the employers' contributions are, but for what purpose have they been introduced or are they taken? What did you mean by your thanks? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What did you mean, Mr Bundeskanzler, with your thanks for this supposed super-solution as to the drinking tax? – Mr Bundeskanzler, I think you will never go to a coffee house, otherwise you will know that it is not the economy that pays the price, but that it is the consumer and the consumer who pays it to the economy. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker:...we are all!]] Of course, the coffee house owners are also affected. You will probably have a reduction in the price increases that are now to be expected. Federal Chancellor! Since you are still sitting here and have the opportunity to say something, I would also ask you to make a few comments on other things or to make clarifications, for example on the fact that Mrs. Fekter – who is not here at the moment – is quoting the party president of the SPÖ, Gusenbauer, because of the activities in Paris as a "state traitor". [[Abg. Zellot: Spell Teacher!]] Here you go, Dr. Schüssel. This is about the clubman of the largest party in this Republic, the largest opposition party! Whatever he does, whether or not You can judge it or not whether you are satisfied with the result, whether it corresponds to your aspirations in all nuances, that is not the question. But a non-insignificant Member screams in between: "State traitors". [[Abg. Dietachmayr: A cowardice!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, do you like that? Do you like that? I know that you do not miss the way in which the Freedom Party has agitated and continues to act against the superintendent of the Burgenland Gertraud Knoll. You don't miss it! If you did not, you would have said something about it in the past or in the present day, Mr Bundeskanzler! You as Christian-Social Chancellor! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] For many decades we had no Christian-social Chancellor. I am – I have said this many times – a Roman Catholic Croatian from Austria, because the Croatians are all Roman-Catholic, Christian and social – for this one must not be a member of the ÖVP – much more Christian and much social than you can at all be. Our solidarity with the evangelical superintendent is quite clear. But to your attitude I can only quote others, namely Klubobmann Westenthaler – I would not use such words – I can only describe this attitude as "low-minded" – that is his quote, referring to another action. Now I come to the last, Mr Bundeskanzler, not to you, but to your most intensive partner, namely the Freeman and Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was the best sentence, now last!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] He said nothing to the budget at all, but only... – no, excuse, Federal Chancellor, I have forgotten something. That is probably why I have forgotten because I have always known it from you, even when you were Foreign Minister, for many years. You have here addressed a statement by Mrs Petrovic, in which she referred to a Wifo statement. [[Abg. Böhacker: Who's entered?]] This can be read in the APA, which can also be read in newspapers that you have had severe criticism of the Wifo, the Economic Research Institute, because the Wifo has found that the lower incomes are more affected by the increase in consumer taxes and fees than the above. Now I'll read it to you from the APA: "That thinks bowl is real nonsense." That's what Dr. Petrovic criticized. What did you do ten minutes later? – You have talked about something quite different, you have rejected all of this on a flat-rate basis, and here you have made the bold claim that the budget is socially balanced and well thought out. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Böhacker.]] What is socially balanced about this budget – you have to provide this proof first. There's no doubt that "will" is not at all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because that shows the fact that you have already done a good consideration, namely certain ideologies or ideological ideas that an ÖVP has – but very Christian-social, I say – is not, at least – to implement this picture "Women to the flock, children to the mothers" exclusively with the funding measures that are now available here. [[Abg. Zelot: What is this?]] We are actually at a moment when there is an absolute backlash for women in this country. What is happening now has happened the last time 50 years ago, when the fact of dedicating children and bringing children to the world has been praised and awarded with orders and there has been no other support. I am far from comparing these things, but in ideologies it is very likely that parallels can be found. If you call this socially balanced and well thought out, Mr Bundeskanzler, then you are very clear here. I would like to know that from you, because this is interesting, and that would be what we should know in the future, Federal Chancellor! Last but not least to Mr...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6261	Your speaking time is over. The closing sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6276	Mr President, Mr Principal! I do not doubt that the next speaker or the next speaker of the Greens will make an intensive dedication to Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6315	As the next speaker, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Trattner. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6350	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! High house! I am not going to deal with the "excellent" budget contributions of the Greens, because everyone here in the House now knows how high the tax revenue in Austria is, how high the budget expenditure is, how high the debt is and how high the deficit is. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you are gracious!]] Everyone here in the House now knows and knows about the green budget policy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But of course it is: With the greens everything has a certain background. The background is that the access of the greens to the handling of tax money is a very worrying one. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now, Mr. Van der Bellen!]] He's a very worrying one. If today in Austria an employee or an employee becomes unemployed – this can unfortunately happen in times like this – then he goes to the employment office and receives unemployment aid or unemployment support. It's different with the greens. In the case of the Greens, a member of the government will leave Tyrol. It leaves the state government because it has decided to go to the National Council. There is nothing wrong with that. But it receives unemployment benefit of 160 000 S per month. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: What?]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It makes the appropriate request, of course, to the Office of the Tyrolean Government. I have here the answer from Landeshuptmann Weingartner to a written request in the Tiroler Landtag [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Green) Did you make a request?]] According to the Tiroler Landesbehördengesetz, an application for repayment of the payments was made in accordance with § 7. [[Oh, call to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The payment was made by 1. April 1999 to 28. October 1999. [[Abg. Haigermoser: No?]] The reference advance payment was to be made in accordance with the above provisions in the amount of the monthly reference of a Council of State, taking account of the special payments. Who was that? – Only one is excreted: the green Members Eva Lichtenberger. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is incredible!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Now, of course, everything is clear about how these greens deal with public funds! It is also quite clear that no budget figures are given here. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (to Green) Shame!]] The next is the Socialist or Social Democratic Party. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! At the Federal Congress of Social Democrats, Mr. Gusenbauer called for the "Ally of the Reasonable". That's all right. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But he's not there himself!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Insanity!]] Right after that, of course, the Upper Sharper Sharping and Persson go to the speaker's desk and say: These sanctions must remain true with all force! – Faith You, at the meeting with the Social Democrats, is anyone reasonable? Don't they have reasonable ones? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or what about the statement made by the mayor of Vienna, who says that the government is supposed to be driven out of office? – Do you agree, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka? Go out and say: Yes, we agree. The government is supposed to be driven out of office. If you cannot identify with this, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, please go out and say: No, I'm going to dissociate myself! Mr Gusenbauer is really the most excellent example of how to deal with people or how to act and make other accusations. I was with him at the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in Washington two years ago. At that time there were other political groups, the Greens, the Austrian People's Party; at that time the Liberals were still inside. The IMF's report on Austria was also published there, and this report was very blue. I have allowed myself to question this report a little critically. Mr Gusenbauer said to me: Mr Trattner, we are not at home in a political debate, but we are abroad; there is no attack on the Austrian Federal Government or on the federal government's budget policy. That's what I said: Okay, let's carry this out in the country. But I also expect Mr Gusenbauer to keep it this way: that the internal policy debate is being carried out here and not abroad! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The worst thing Mr Gusenbauer has ever done is to: He comes back from Paris, goes here, insults the government for 10 minutes, and then goes back. Come here, dump the dirt and then disappear again: This is not a parliamentarianism, as this House deserves it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is strange that Mr Edlinger is no longer here. But it has a certain reason that Mr Edlinger is no longer here. He also does not seem to be on the list of speakers, as I have seen; perhaps he can still report for a speech. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's taking care of his dog!]] But he left us his inheritance, and this is a strange inheritance. Today, when someone enters an inheritance, he is first sad about the death, but then he rejoices that he can become an inheritance. If anything is present, he gives an absolute declaration of inheritance; that is, he gets a fortune. However, if the debt exceeds the assets, it shall at best issue a conditional declaration of inheritance, so that no risk arises on it. This federal government has even made an essential declaration of inheritance, for a legacy of 1,700 billion shilling in debt, out-of-budget debt of 300 billion schilling, 80 billion schilling in ÖIAG debt, 700 billion shilling in liability and, despite a savings package of over 100 billion, a budget deficit of 109 billion schilling. About a million people lived on the poverty line, the income difference between men and women is still 30 percent, the health insurance funds are in malaise with 6 billion schillings, and the former Finance Minister leaves us EU-unlawful laws that this federal government has to administer. I mean the drinking tax, and I mean the anonymity of the savings books. [[Abg. Haigermoser: A clean heritage!]] He just went away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an inheritance!]] Also on how the SPÖ with the inheritance – with its own heritage! – handling, shows a strange way of doing things. Before the party day, we heard again and again: The SPÖ has party debt in the order of 411 million schilling. This can happen, the SPÖ doesn't hurt in the wealth. On the party day itself, the official debt was only 351 million. We can remember that Mr Westenthaler has brought the example of credit from the Steiermärkische Bank to the order of 60 million schilling. This loan may have been credited there with a favourable interest rate of 3.75 percent, although today the monthly VIBOR is already over 4 percent. But all of a sudden, this loan doesn't seem to be under the commitments anymore. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it? How's it going?]] Yeah, how's it going? Is he no longer repayable? [[Abg. Fischl: Did he make an inheritance?]] Or is he out-of-budget funded? – That’s just how the SPÖ deals with the debts! That is why the new Federal Government is suffering under this debt burden of the old Federal Government – under the responsibility of Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also significant how the EU deals with the so-called sanctions or how the European Council deals with the various reports. The Minister of Finance reports: ==References== In January 1999, the Council examined the stability programme of the Federal Government for the years 1998 to 2002; for the years following 1999, the programme did not contain any general statements of a general nature on budgetary policy. That's strange once. However, the programme provides for a reduction in the general government budget deficit to 1.4% of the gross domestic product by 2002, while the overall debt ratio is expected to fall to 60 percent of the gross domestic product. The Council welcomes the achievement of significantly better budgetary objectives than planned and recognises that the expected medium-term deficit value of 1.4% of gross domestic product in view of the low fluctuations in economic growth – and so on – should be sufficient for automatic stabilisers to become effective in the event of normal economic downturn, without the risk of an overrun of the 3 percent of GDP reference value. The Council concludes that the programme is in line with the provisions of the Growth and Stability Pact. What was the background? - 1999 was a National Council election in Austria. In 1999, the Minister of Finance submitted a report to the Council which was worse than the current report. At the time, the Council welcomed this report and said: It is all right, the Austrian budget policy is all right; we can make a tax reform without a doubt. Now the Finance Minister of the new Federal Government travels to Brussels and gets there for a report that is better than the one at the time, the big rupture! I must say quite honestly that there are also standing SPD politicians like the Finance Minister from Germany, Minister Eichel, who said: This is not all right, but the budget measures and the budgetary policies of the last two years are in debt. You just have to stand to that! One cannot move such a thing today to a federal government which is now in office for 100 days and has managed a budget within four days, and let all the mistakes you have made in advance be forgotten. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You really have to think about it: How does the Council deal with the reports? How does the Council deal with the reports, depending on whether a Socialist Finance Minister brings a Stability Pact to Brussels or whether a Free Minister for Finance brings it to Brussels? – There must be no differences, ladies and gentlemen, but there must be measured with concrete figures or concrete measures and assessed on this basis! We know that these budget figures are bad, too. A budget cannot be set in order within a few months – for the 2000 budget. We are aware that there are a lot of one-off effects. But we must also be aware that these structural measures are necessary and must be implemented. These include pension reform, public service reform and privatisation. Everyone will have to participate in this. If you believe today that you can only block the pension reform on the part of the union with strikes again, I will tell you: This will not happen, because if these structural measures are not implemented, we will be enslaved from one budget to another, and we will remain the final light in the European Union for years to come. But that cannot be the goal of this federal government, but it must all stand together and feel that the concrete measures are important to ensure that they are enforced and regulated. There must be positive signals, and positive signals have been out since this government was in office. Foreign entrepreneurs are again interested in investing in Austria. They say: This government is here, it wants to push the state back from the companies, it wants to go through a real privatisation, it wants to carry out a privatisation in the form that the influence of the state is really pushed back. We have confidence in this federal government, and we have confidence in Austria's economic location. This simply shows the investment measures the companies are planning here in Austria. Daimler-Chrysler wants to award orders of 50 billion schilling to Steyr-vehicle technology within the next ten years. Siemens is planning investments of 4.3 billion schilling. For the year 2000, Magna is planning a total investment volume of 2.5 billion Schilling, and VW expects an investment volume of one billion Schilling for 2000. MAN plans investments of 1.5 billion Schilling, Bombardier-Rotax invests 1.5 billion Schilling, BMW 2 billion Schilling, Opel Austria 760 million Schilling and so on and so on. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not possible to create everything within a very short period of time, but this federal government has managed to send the relevant signals, namely that this government intends to take these structural measures, that this government is willing to take the state out of the enterprises, and that the companies or the economy have the framework under which they can operate and create jobs. And that is the decisive. Jobs do not create public hands, but jobs create the economy. Look The budget for the year 2000 and the future budget for 2001 and 2002 will be agreed. They have always criticized that this is a redistribution from bottom to top. That's not it! And since you've already quoted the head of the Wifo, Helmut Kramer, I'm also quoting him. He said at the "Mitagsjournal" on the 21st. March 2000: Overall, relief takes place, relatively more in the area of lower incomes through wage tax reduction and also through the family package. - You shouldn't take this apart. And if you look closely at the budget figures for the year 2000, you will also see that wage tax revenue is absolutely lower by 9 billion schilling, the corporate income is absolutely higher by over 4 billion schilling. So, where you see a redistribution here, I can't see. That is why I believe that this government should be given a chance. It is not always possible to hinder these measures by strike, and of course we will also look at the trade union a little more closely in terms of how it deals with its budget or with the contributions. After all, the trade union has 2,4 billion schilling revenues from membership contributions, and of these 2,4 billion schilling revenues from member contributions, 50 percent go up for personnel costs alone. One must also look at this, because if one divides that by the number of employees, one insists that an employee at the union has an average annual income of 500 000 s. I think that's very high. The top officials in the trade unions would have to go ahead with a good example of the Austrian income earners, who earn little or very little, not just going on the road and stretching, but taking positive measures. This, of course, applies not only to trade unions but, of course, also to the entire protected area.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6650	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6674	Mr Trattner claimed that I had received unemployment benefit after leaving the state government. – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You did it before leaving?]] It is true, rather, that, after leaving the state government, I took advantage of the supplementary payment which all members of the government who are banned from working in their capacity. [[Aha! - Call the Freemans]] Of this money I have provided half-caritative projects, such as the earthquake victims in Turkey, the Caritas, such as the Association "Pharmacies Without Borders" or "People for People" for Ethiopia. That's correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6719	President. — The debate is closed. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6740	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Honourable People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Austria needs a solid financial policy more than ever before. We will only succeed in the future if we can bring our state budget in order if we can reorganise our budget. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to have low inflation, if you want to have a high economic growth, if you want a framework for entrepreneurs to be able to provide full employment in this country, you must strive to renovate public finances in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Those who do not only want to improve the quality of life of the Austrian population, but who want to fight poverty in this country, those who want to support 1 million people who live at the poverty line, who have also been discussed today, who want social justice in Austria, must be concerned with the reorganisation of the budget, who must be ordinary state finances in Austria. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am also calling myself a budgetary policy in which revenue and expenditure should have a relation where, if possible, revenue should also be able to cover expenditure. I call myself a budgetary policy, in view of which the people can say: We know that this federal government is sparsely dealing with our tax money, sparingly with the taxes that are being collected. That is why I also call myself a Stability and Growth Pact, which Austria has concluded with the European Union, and I recognise the consolidation and rehabilitation of our state finances. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Federal Finance Act 2000, which I was able to submit to the House for decision in a very, very short time, is a first step in this direction. It is a first step away from a budgetary policy, which means standing with the back to the wall, having no room for space, not being able to shape and standing very far behind in the European comparison, which means that in the future we will create spaces and have prospects for necessary measures in our country. It is certainly not an ideal budget – since I agree with some who have also critically illuminated it – but it is, ladies and gentlemen, the maximum of what you can achieve in a few weeks, especially when you see the starting position that has set us up. This initial position has given us the task of ensuring the liquidity of the country, the liquidity of the Republic that would have been at risk in April of this year if we had not introduced a budget procedure at the first meeting of the new Federal Government. It was a way of planning, it was a way of ensuring reliability, so that the citizen knows what he can expect from what financial conditions he can expect. And although there has been this time pressure, the lowest deficit in relative figures since 1974 has succeeded in presenting the lowest deficit in absolute figures with 54 billion schilling since 1982. I think you can be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Nor should it be taken for granted that it has succeeded in achieving the objectives of the Austrian Stability Programme towards the European Union by means of this Federal Finance Act 2000, and it should not be taken for granted that it has succeeded in financing a tax reform and a family package that will bring 28 billion Schilling to the population this year. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I really regard it as a question of objectivity, as a question of actual information to the population. Do you want to be insecure? Do you want to talk about savings packages? Do you want to talk about stress? Do you want to talk about things that this Federal Government has not even thought about and will never be remembered in the future? I read in some oppositional writings, we want 13th and 14th. Limit monthly salary, we want to intervene in existing pension contracts. – Ladies and gentlemen! I think the common responsibility, our common responsibility, is to create trust in the population, to give it the feeling that it can rely on us. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we should not talk to the people about savings packages and burdens, but should put the facts on the table. And the facts are that we bring 28 billion schillings to relief: 16 billion discharge by the tax reform, 12 billion schilling by the family package. The population will get more: increased family allowances, increased child transfers compared to the last. If you subtract the 7 billion schilling that we unfortunately had to save in order to comply with the stability pacts in order to guarantee stable state finances, 21 billion schilling net purchasing power will remain more for the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you, once again, to take into account the impact on those groups of people you are addressing, namely the fewer earners, the lower 20% of the income pyramid. And I also ask you to note that a family in which the man deserves 20 000 S gross per month, the woman 10 000 S gross per month – and I think we agree that in Austria, thank God, rather the lower part of the income pyramid – that such a family with two children, both partners are working, has experienced a discharge of 15 000 S in 2000. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 15 000 S net more in the wallet – and that's where the opposition of "sparpackage" and "load" speaks! It does not make a proposal, but criticizes everything, damning this budget, saying that it is nothing right at all in this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that a finance minister is rather rare in such a situation, on the one hand, to reorganise, to have an expectation of rehabilitation, on the other hand, to leave 15 000 S net more in the wallet – to the people who can understand this example. This coalition has succeeded in financing tax reform and family package. One should be proud of it – and also convey the truth to the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think everyone here in the House knows that there are other opinions, other convictions that you can make other proposals. I have a personal problem, however, if we are dealing here with the speaker's seat, just as my predecessor in the office of the Minister of Finance a few days ago, with one of the last budget debates, and this budget 2000 on and down, does not find anything right in a contemporary press release that it is a "unsocial, unintelligent, a nationally harmful budget", and the government should withdraw as quickly as possible because it has "no idea of budget policy". For this reason, a few clear words: The finances of our country have been handed over to us in a pitiful state. In this regard, Austria is the final light in Europe, and you know that I had to say this very clearly on Monday in the Council of Finance Ministers, in the ECOFIN, and I am going to be invited next time by Mr Edlinger, if there is such a debate, so that this can be done by the relevant addressees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Edlinger, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, should have listened to the criticism of the Commission of the European Union, the criticism of the European Central Bank, the criticism of the 14 Member States. It was said that it cannot be that a rich country like Austria – with this tradition, with this history and strength in Europe! – behind Portugal, behind Greece, behind Spain, by far the end of Europe, what budgetary policy is about! It cannot be said that my predecessor in this office, Mr Edlinger, agreed in 1997 in the ECOFIN that in Austria it must be consolidated more strongly that he has agreed to the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union, which is legally binding, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh that!]] It was a legally binding Stability and Growth Pact, a commitment for the Republic and for the Federal Government, in which we will achieve a balanced budget or surplus in 2002. It says there: Close to Balance or Surplus. And you agreed, Mr Edlinger. In 1998 you, Mr Edlinger, as President of ECOFIN, the Council of Finance Ministers, agreed that Austria will be "Close to Balance or Surplus" in 2002. And that is why I can tell you from your former colleagues that they did not understand why budgetary policy in Austria has done exactly the opposite, why, in 1998 and 1999 in Austria, consolidation was not announced, but stagnation, while all the other countries have understood how to solidly consolidate it, achieve much better results, so that in 2002 there would be only Austria, which would be more than 1 percent deficit if we did not fight massively. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been promised that it has been made legally binding – but in 1999 it was even necessary to inform the House of an increasing financial debt. It is not understandable for me to make up and say that the budget 2000 is the worst at all, we burden them, we burden them that the deficit is not in order, that the budget is not ambitious enough, and so on. At the same time, however, you will not be able to make just an alternative proposal: not to make an alternative proposal in the Committee, or to say from an expert's side what you could have done differently! Professor Walterskirchen was invited to the committee, and even Dr. Walterskirchen could not make a proposal in the committee of which he could have said: This concrete proposal would have been the alternative to fiscal consolidation and budget creation in 2000. Professor Lehner of the Economic Research Institute – he also did not know how to make a proposal in the Committee: That's how we do it better, so we try to counter it. The expert who invited the Greens, too, Mag. Rossmann from the Chamber of Workers, did not know any alternative how we could better manage the 2000 budget than we have done anyway. That's why I'm saying: Something good has been done to us – but you manage to distance yourself from your own policy by running alternatively, unconditional opposition policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is something I really deeply regret, because you know, of course, how important ordinary and stable state finances are for our country, for the future of our country. That is why I am pleased, on the other hand, that we have succeeded in communicating with the European Union that we will change this policy over the last two years, that we will do differently. And it has been praised for the way in which this federal government is going. We have received praise for the structural reforms provided for in the Government Agreement. It has been said there, ladies and gentlemen, that, what is criticised by the opposition here, the pension reform must be implemented, but not because one wants to take away something from the pensioners, but because there is a responsibility for the long-term protection of pensions, a common responsibility of all of us. There they said: As planned, the administrative reform is essential. There has been support for a health reform. There has been support for the ambitious course of privatisation in Austria, and there has also been support for more research and development, because it is important that we restructure our economy towards more New Economy, more telecommunications, more Internet technologies so that we can create jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think what the European Union is possible, what 14 Member States of the Union are possible – which, as we know, are unfortunately not particularly positive in God’s relationship with Austria; but we all hope that it will be so far back soon – which is what these 14 Member States can say in this political situation: These are important and right reforms for the future of Austria!, which should be possible to all four parties of this House in a critical discourse, in which differing opinions can be expressed in detail. You'd have to say: In the interests of Austria, we must make structural reforms! I can assure you from our website: We will be true to the contract, we will respect the European Union's commitments, and we will, above all, respect the commitments of the Austrian people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is simply a matter of renovating this budget and thus opening up scope – opening up scope for an investment policy, opening up scope for research and development and scope for new economy to open up scope for a more also in education and training. Although we have an excellent employment situation today, we know that in the new technologies we could immediately need more staff. There could be 10,000, 15 000 young people immediately finding a job if they had the corresponding training. I therefore believe that it is far-sighted to create perspectives here if we can also create opportunities for the next generation, for youth. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will also need scope if the economy is not as positive as it is today – thank God! - the case is. We must, when the economic cycle goes down again, be able to counter it. We cannot do a budgetary policy in which we are constantly watching nothing done to counter what we do not do to actively shape. We must move towards a budgetary policy that says: We are trying to make economic decisions: for more growth, for more employment, for greater monetary stability in Austria. I believe that there is great support from the Austrians for this path in which they realize that they are trying to make it fair and fair, that they are trying to go a way that is sparingly dealing with the citizens' taxpayers' money, making structural and task reforms and asking: What is the benefit of the Austrian population? And asking the question: Where have traditional tasks developed, perhaps no longer necessarily necessary for the population today? I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, about a call. It's just an individual case, but it's an individual case that moved me very much. Last week a Vorarlberger called me and said: Mr Grasser, I am a minimum pensioner, I have a pension of 4 200 S and I am a compensation beneficiary. I tell you, this lady continues: Save it! Pull through this path of budget consolidation and budget recovery! This is important for the next generation, and we all stand behind it and support you! - Quote. I believe that what makes the population possible, which supports the population – therefore my thanks to the population – should also be possible the opposition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] This should also be possible the opposition! Ladies and gentlemen! In a constructive policy, there should be a competition of ideas, a competition of the beliefs in which one introduces concepts to which alternative proposals should then be discussed, but not unconditionally. No to everything and everyone says what is proposed. This will not be the way to bring Austria a renovated budget and make it possible to change the course for the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6918	As the next speaker, Mr Arbitrator has spoken. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e6940	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Even though we do not agree with what Mr Finanzminister said on the content – and speakers from us will do so – we are nevertheless glad that the Minister of Finance has spoken on the budget and on the content of this debate. Just as this debate was started by the government parties, by the Klubobmann of the ÖVP and by the Klubobmann of the FPÖ... – Wait for me to speak soon! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: First speaker was Kostelka!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You've started, Col. Schieder!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Just as the two government clubmen started this debate, it was actually a debate on the measures taken by the fourteen, which in the afternoon would have been the subject of the external chapter. You have held a debate on questions that are certainly important, but with which you have covered the actual chapter – the budget, the Supreme Institutions, the Federal Chancellery. Our executive clubman Dr. Kostelka – You have rightly pointed out this – has brought key messages that you did not fit. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Old hats!]] – Yes, yes, you say "old hats"! – Dr. Kostelka said that Your budget is a burden programme without social balance, without social balance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kostelka has rightly said that the only idea behind your budget is new burdens on social weaknesses. He explained that you do not have savings targets, but only tax targets, and he pointed out that many losers will face only a few winners. [[Abg. Aumayr: Where have your requests, your suggestions remained?]] And what was your answer? – They just say: Foundamental opposition. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right!]] They do not go into content at all, but they cover it, they distract you by talking about the measures of the fourteen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The Chapter Top Institutions would have been a good opportunity to say a word from your side to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany: To this "Lump, Hump, Dump" thing it would probably have been appropriate for you, Mr Westenthaler, as a clubman of the liberals to say a word about it, or you, Mr. Khol, as a clubman of the partner of the FPÖ, to speak on it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does Mayor Häupl say?- Oh, my God!]] I know the Federal Chancellor has said something about this. The Federal Chancellor said: Everyone's best to start with themselves. – Well, that’s going to “joy the President of the Federal Republic” if the only message to him is that he should start with himself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That would have been a chance for you to clear something out here, find a clear word. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There's nothing to clear out! There's nothing to clear! They're trying to get the government out of office!]] You didn't take that opportunity either. It was more important for you to bring what is supposed to help you in the interior. The way you are talking about the measures of the fourteen here is not the way in which it is necessary to remove the matter abroad. You are using this question internally because you think it helps you, and because you can cover with how unsocial this budget is and how it harms the people of this country! That's your tactic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Distance yourself from Häupl!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Distance yourself from Häupl!]] We will be able to talk about what is right – Dr. Gusenbauer has already given you the appropriate answer – still in the chapter Exterior. But the following is to be said again now: If you are concerned with removing these measures – and I assume it is all about them – then you have to ask yourself the question: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] Is the way you have both spoken about it internally motivated – or is it helpful to remove these measures abroad? Was it the right signal to the EU – or was it a hardening signal you gave? Sometimes we ask ourselves: Don't you use that because you think it's gonna help you? Newspapers have already reported that the question is being discussed in some of the country's party headquarters: What will happen if the measures of the fourteen are no longer in place? What will we do then? – And rightly quoted "The press" in this context, the statement of an ÖVP secretary: In autumn, blue-black social policy could be the main theme of political debate, while vice versa, the EU sanctions, which are considered unfair, are already out of the table and will no longer mobilise protest voters. – This is the concern of an ÖVP secretary. The way in which you conduct the debate here nourishes our suspicions that in this debate you have been particularly concerned with playing out the topic internally and at the same time covering the budget – and not to help Austria abroad. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Ammary tales!]] I was also a bit disappointed, I was really disappointed with what words you tried to make Dr. Gusenbauers, for our country with partners... – Yes, and you continue this. [[Lively contradiction with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God!]] [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Haigermoser: You don't believe that yourself!]] If you were serious, you'd speak differently! You demask yourself with your comments you make here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now comes the naked finger!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: He is not convinced of what he says!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Chapter Top Institutions would also be a good opportunity to talk about Parliament itself, about the concerns that we have, for example, about the problem that, in the case of two-thirds majority decisions, that is, in the case of constitutional laws, you do not maintain the appropriate contacts with us, but obviously have prepared a roll with which you say, "You just want to injunctify!" – even if we don't want to junctify anything. You think we must agree anyway and prefer not to talk to us in terms of content in order to get a two-thirds majority. They want to play it with the public, with the roll, instead of the parliamentary dialogue. That's not the right job! That's not the way to deal with an opposition in this house! – Yes, yes, you are talking about percentages, but percentages cannot solve this question. [[Abg. Haigermoser: (referring partly empty rows of seats at SPÖ) With us, you hear more Members than your own group!]] Or the debate on the subcommittees, on the appointment of the chairmen in the subcommittees. It used to be the case that in the majority of the cases of the chairman in the Subcommittee, he was the same chairman in the Committee. – Suddenly this is called into question. The system d’Hondt seems to be suddenly questioned for you. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – Yes, I know Mr d’Hondt is dead next year 100 years. Now that you have the majority, you want to break down with his procedure. But that's not the right way! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: It's in the same way...!]] We could talk about all these questions. We also knew many things that we should talk about, for example, about the question of whether much of the necessary modernisation is blocked here, because Mr President Prinzhorn wants to have evaluated the IT measures and that is why nothing goes on. Much would have to be discussed in this House: major questions of the Republic, the Federal Chancellery, big questions of the Supreme Institutions and our work itself. Afterwards, in the external chapter, we could have talked about EU measures – and we will do the same. You have led the debate in such a way that you give us a hand and at the same time use this question to cover the dissocial nature of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7275	The next speaker was Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7307	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In the general debate on the budget, it has so far been Usus that the topic of women and the future design of women's policy has been given an essential chapter, an essential period of time. I would like to take the opportunity of speaking about this area today, because the Ministry of Women – the so-called Women's Ministry, which was actually only a part of the Federal Chancellor's Office and thus only a derived ministry – has been transformed by the new government into a real new women's ministry and generation ministry, which, of course, now has much more sustainability to show. I am pleased with this regulation, because women's policy is a cross-sectional matter, and it could not be better than that the areas of youth, family, women, even health, which is now related to this ministry, are almost a problem-related and therefore better solutions for the minister than has been the case so far. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She believes that!]] Let me also say the following. In recent years, especially in recent months before the new government, the issue of women has been strongly supported by criticism, mainly from the left, by the Greens, towards the women's policy that has taken place over the past 30 years. I was amazed at the fact that a former minister who is responsible for a large part of this women's policy, namely Johanna Dohnal, has actually been a proponent for an unsuspecting movement, even at the head of it. She has put a package of demands on the table to her successor minister, who should have fulfilled them within a very short time. At that time, Mrs Prammer had my full support and full sympathy, and I never made it a success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: The fact is that this policy has failed. We want to start with a new, forward-looking women's policy. We want to do it differently! I can tell you that the criticism of recent times was borne by the united left opposition – the criticism of the government and also of the government's family and women's policies – by statements, dignitaries and interventions. There have already been similar examples from other resorts today. It's no different for women, it's also disappointing me – but be it! We're already used to that. The intentional misinformation, anxiety and disinformation is to deal with women, which is your women's policy. But they still owe us better proposals, alternative proposals, even proposals! I have followed the last debates here in this House very closely. They will have to explain a lot to women when it comes to future issues. How often do we read about it, and we all know how much we are trying to achieve as many EU projects as possible, to find co-financing, and finally to provide training through women's organisations as we do with a lot of money in order to bring women and, above all, new entrants to telework. And then a colleague – I admit, she's still young and only here in the middle – goes out here from the SPÖ and defuses the telework on devil-come-rauss! She may have something against teleworking. You could talk about it and add some more. But there are also tele houses, and it is not possible for women to avoid dealing with the computer, so to speak, the future of women's work and the labour market at all, in this way, with such an eternal opinion yesterday! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Here I read, for example, that a SPÖ collector is excited about the fact that the Federal Chancellor said something about an "Internet generation". So, pretty slowly you're uplifting over everything; but that's not my style. I see this with serenity. According to the information of the AMS, work foundations have a score of 90 percent, but a colleague of SPÖ – I think it was Mrs Plank – goes out here and competes against these foundations. - Where do you live?- Oh, my God! Have you lost sight of the essential?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You infected her!]] For example, they are also talking about the fact that the partner income – which is a point of women's desire – should not be acceptable in the case of unemployment benefit, but it should be very likely in the case of child care. Where's your line? How do you explain this to women? [[Abg. Oillingers: You don't understand anything at all!]] They also need to explain why the central demand of women for a better compatibility of family and profession, in particular the restoration of two-year-old karenz, the paid karenz, should be poor. They simply claim that this is a curfew to the stove, even though you have recently stood up for this claim. Yes, you do not even hesitate to bring the old KAPOVAZ back to life, a forbidden form of working time, and to claim that there is still it! - Where is she? Where are you, then, where is the labour inspectorate when such cases should actually exist? – You can't do that in general, that's not something you need to discuss here. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haller.]] But you did not turn on when the mail was still in your responsibilities and it was about many jobs for women. Especially the poorest women who naturally wanted to come at insurance times... – Don't laugh, Mrs. Mertel! [[Objection and ironic hustle and bustle at SPÖ.]] These women were just the "temporary employees", and you've allowed it! The women were released, hired, released, stopped. These women came to us for a speech because, of course, they were concerned about their livelihood and their retirement and wanted a safe employment relationship. I didn't hear a word about it from you at the time! Eternally, the eternally old knitting pattern! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They also need to explain to women why there is still no equal pay paid for equivalent work. This is an archival demand that we cannot fulfil here in the house, but the trade unions are very good. You should put a drive there! It is up to them, because we do not hold wage negotiations here in the house! How do women find it when they read that the two SPÖ's Federal Managing Directors now have only a quarter of what Mr. Rudas has earned – for the same work!Unknown term type: "%s".? A "tolle" signal; the women will thank themselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs Wurm last time has the planned re-regulation of the surviving pension, as widow's pension is no longer in your district, sorry. – Remember: The first – that filled me with amazement – who called for the disappearance of the widow's pension was Federal Minister Prammer and then still Federal Minister for Women's Affairs. So that disappointed me the most, and I believe that the future regulation will be a good one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You will also have to explain to women the right from where you take the mumm, the women, the women in important positions in which they were elected – for example, vice-chancellors, ministers – downgraded. I don't want to bring any quotations here, read it. In our mailboxes there was a women’s newspaper, not the last edition, which was the last issue. And in my opinion, it has been significant: All the new Members of the Government who have been questioned have made a real effort to give objective answers. The women of the opposition party, on the other hand, have argued in such an ambiguity that I have to generate for myself as a woman! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a speaking time of ten minutes, and they pass away very quickly. What we want is: to reduce more social justice, to reduce obstacles, to reduce discrimination and to strengthen support for women in all stages of life, to improve access to education and training – as a lot has changed – to improve the return to life. Family tax reform – which has already been mentioned today – is a very important factor in supporting women in the family phase. Childcare money will provide more justice. 11 percent of mothers who have been discriminated against so far will benefit. We will have to talk about flexible working hours, and also about improving the situation of women on the labour market. Federal Minister Bartenstein is a guarantee for this. I'll invite you to: Do not use all your energies that you have for negative things, not against something, such as the "Rabenmütter-Tag" – I feel turned back by 20 years in women's policy, this discussion is over to mothers – but rather make it a positive contribution to a common positive design of the future of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7439	Mrs Jäger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7464	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bauer claimed that the two SP business leaders deserve only half of what Federal Managing Director Rudas earned. – This is incorrect insofar as the SPÖ applies: [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You deserve even less!]] If someone's a constituency, then that's taken into account in the salaries. – Both heads of federal business are members of the National Council here!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7523	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary time limit: 15 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7597	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors – who is not here right now! Mrs Petrovic, or speakers from the Green Group, and also the Socialist Group, accused Mrs Trattner of not talking about the budget. - That's incredible! It was reserved for Khol and Westenthal to stand here as a speaker's desk and to proclaim, on the one hand, the now unbearable "schulterschluss"-parols and, on the other hand, to roll the theory of conspiracy – in Westenthal's diktion – "fortification theories". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – That was the start to the budget debate of blue and black. This should be recorded once for the minutes. Kostelka and Petrovic spoke about what was demanded. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – We then deal with the ÖVP. He also raised some of our criticisms of this government proposal on the budget. This is our behavior very quickly explained: The attitude expressed by the government and expressed by it in the budget work – the next budgets are likely to become even worse – is nevertheless unecological, but above all unsocial. This budget template is simply unsocial! In part, there has already been this under social-democratic government participation, which we do not want to forget completely at this point, but now, quite obviously, a phase is being initiated, which is being redistributed from the bottom to the top. – This is simply to be held in this simple section. And that is not only what we are saying, but also what the budgetary hearing experts have done, not just those who have been nominated by the Social Democratic or by the Green Group. No, no, no, The budget expert, nominated by the EIA Group, also found that certain tax amendments clearly achieve a regressive distribution effect: Distribution from bottom to top! Now only! – Already in the first semester is taught: If you increase indirect taxes, this simply affects the disadvantaged more than those with higher incomes and higher assets. That is quite clear, at least, how different it should be! For these and similar findings on the part of the Wifo, there is a rupture that seeks the same – a rupture that seeks the same! That makes us the real point. . It is indeed difficult not to address the real problems in this Republic in this budget debate, namely those caused by this Federal Government. In fact, it is the first time in my knowledge that in such an unfavourable way the government has exerted pressure on an in itself independent economic research institute. And that's just synonymous, instead of this blue-black government wanting to eliminate central institutions in our Republic – a few days after its takeover of power! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It should not have surprised you that a blue-black government, a right-wing conservative, is making such a policy, but what is already frightening – and I am not going to admit it at this point provisionally – is the speed in which you are now riding your attacks. There you have lost every measure of balance in the matter itself and also in the practice of the political debate that has so far ruled in our country. And this is simply a completely new situation in domestic policy, which you, Mr Bundeskanzler, clearly have to answer. In any case, I think it is up to the border to be unbearable, as here in the House the debates are staged by Khol and Westenthal, on the one hand, and on the other hand certain ways of conduct are being straightened in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think I can remember that several times – well five to seven times – on all possible suitable, but mostly inappropriate occasions, Standing Ovations were donated by the representatives of the two government parties. In the meantime, it's okay, you want my political rhetoric, political staging, okay, but when and how you do it, in what form, is really scary. If Westenthaler, as thought, sits in the stadium in between, I fear the next staging: It'll be like you're trying the "wave" here. The "wave" is tried as in the football stadiums, if anyone from the government says anything that's right again. And that's just an unculture you dragged in here. It's an unculture! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: The government fractions have begun today's budget debate again with this painful shoulder-closed demand. To this end, I would like to say: It is simply infammity to stand up to demand a "reclusion" constantly, but even in political physiognomy, not to have the necessary backbone to reject certain things. I am speaking here, especially about the "F" no longer in this context, about the ÖVP Group. I appeal – at least to the few who are here now – to the representatives of the ÖVP to raise a minimum level of backbone and simply oppose certain behaviours of the "F". This will be necessary if you want to get the last rest of credibility you may still have. – But don’t do this, blame yourself for the deterioration of the climate here in the House and in our Republic. I am now referring to Westenthaler, who said that the action of Mrs Haidlmayr at the last plenary session had been an "exemplary attack" on Parliament, the Republic and democracy. And that's why I'm at the next point. What is happening here behind the scenes also needs a prophylactic finding. It is colported by the representatives of the government factions that Mrs Haidlmayr had been forced to do so without his own will, without his own political will – "stopping" is almost a mild expression. It is colported that it has been instrumentalized by the Pilz Member for this action and it would have missed it for its own sake. – I say to you: That's the last thing I've ever heard here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I say it here and now – perhaps this campaign can still be stopped in the background –: It is clear that Mrs Haidlmayr has, of course, acted in this way out of his own conviction! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] Your action was – admittedly! – not within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. That's right, no one has disputed. However, we have also cordially invited you to think briefly about what an adequate response to your process, namely the government template for the Civil Service Law Novelle, might look like. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wattaul.]] – You could still take a little to heart the comment of the clubman Van der Bellen today and meditate for at least a few minutes, Mr. Collegue, before you say hysterically. That's just not a culture you're spreading here. I also note that this was not a blockade against the Republic. I quote Mr. Prinzhorn, who is "presiding" again at the moment, who said that he could well identify himself with the form and content of Mrs. Haidlmayr's action. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I didn't hear this, Mr. Deputies!]] – "Kronen-Zeitung" of the next day! – I have to admit to Mr President Prinzhorn – I really do not want to admit – that he has acted very cautiously in this situation. We should all be so reasonable and do not preach the "fall of the Republic" on the occasion of such an action by a Member who was clearly expressing their concern. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I should like to change the subject briefly because I am not going to speak today, and I am referring briefly to the Court of Auditors chapter. I will only concentrate on a matter which is of great relevance to the budget and resources of the Court of Auditors. Just three years ago, in this House, the Contingent Restriction Act was adopted – against the votes of the "F", but with the votes of all other political groups, including those of the ÖVP – which provides for many things, including in part constitutional provisions, that the salaries of the officials on the one hand and top managers on the other, on the other hand, of certain institutions, namely those who are either directly public bodies, or at least those companies which are also the majority in public ownership, are disclosed. These are constitutional provisions. And exactly the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Cot, makes itself a pioneer of the Constitutional Breakery by refusing to disclose these pay lists. This has recently been officially announced via "APA", and this seems to me to be remarkable in so far as the government fractions do not allow for the alleged or partly actual, at least far-reaching, at the Chamber of Labour, as we think we are strapping privileges, presenting the Chamber of Workers there in order to make them ready to prepare your project that central institutions of this Republic simply cannot do anything to me, nothing can crush you, so that in the consequence it can be implemented all the more easily that the charges for the Chamber of Workers – calculated only for these – are reduced. In addition to this so-called privilege debate concerning the workers' chamber presidents, you completely overlook what the Chamber of Commerce is doing and is driving. It simply calls for a break in the constitution. It would be really nice if Mr. Khol would drive back at least those officials of the Chamber of Commerce who are members of the ÖVPs under the "Constitutional Arch". This would be very helpful for the Court of Auditors too. Coming to the end: The whole thing costs a lot of money. In fact, the law provides that, if these lists are not sent voluntarily to the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors must check; not should, cannot, may not, perhaps, be, but must. Imagine, now, that this example, which the Chamber of Commerce sets, is schooling and all the around 5,000 or more bodies involved in refusing to inform, if the Court of Auditors, the officials, had nothing more to do than look at who deserves how much to comply with the law! Mr. Stumbling! I'm really asking you to: Put an end to this acting! Work on your people and fail to "do so" at the Chamber of Workers, especially since you have enough black sheep in your own ranks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7714	Mr Dr. Stummvoll spoke on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7738	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As you have just heard, my previous speaker, Mr Kogler, has put the claim here that the Chamber of Commerce would call for a "unconstitutional break". – This claim is incorrect! Rather, it is true that employees of the Chamber of Commerce have applied for a preliminary ruling before the Court of First Instance and have been given the right not to publish their data. We live in a rule of law. I am bound by this decision of the Court of First Instance for so long before a higher instance withdraws this decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7769	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Ofner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7790	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, I should like to say two words on the statements made by Mr Kogler. Those who experienced the year 1934 are very sensitive when it comes to playing with the speaker's seat here in the House, ladies and gentlemen, because with such and similar games one is reminded that about the elimination, on the paralysis of the Parliament once started the civil war, stand court was imposed, executions took place and democracy ended. We are very sensitive to older people. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: And what do you mean by Mrs. Haidlmayr?- Oh, my God!]] Mr President, Mr Principal has responded very meaningfully and thoughtfully – he is right, Mr Vorsprecher – in so far as he has made further speeches. If he had done what one obviously wanted – interrupted, postponed and similar – then that would have been a bad, false signal. We've learned from history. We must assume: This legislative body, with the most important speaker’s board of the Republic, as Ermacora called it in his farewell speech, cannot be hindered and cannot be interrupted. You can still plan so much evil in this direction. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to deal with the comments made by another previous speaker, namely Mrs Stoisits, because, in many respects, I am in agreement with what she has said here today, which will surprise one person or another. Mr Stoisits has stated that all the crimes of National Socialism are to be reconciled accordingly. All the victims of these crimes, the direct and the indirect, are, as far as possible, harmless, and all of this must be done quickly, otherwise all these people will no longer live together. I believe that in this context we Austrians are fortunately more forward than other countries, especially in our neighbourhood. It is we who have openly put the crimes within our borders, as far as they have become known, on the table that have tried to punish the perpetrators, and who have declared that crimes are crimes and that the victims have to be compensated. I miss similar practices in a number of neighbouring countries. In the case of neighbouring countries, it seems that there is nothing to hear on both ears in this regard. In other countries, it is explained: There's never been any crime with us, anywhere else! And then there are those states like the immediate northern neighbor of the Republic of Austria, who explains: That's all there was, but it was good! The displacement of 3.5 million people, the killing of a quarter of a million of these people on this occasion, was right, and in fact one must confess to things in a positive sense. But I'm not quite young, I figured out yesterday, from the battle of Königgrätzt 1866 until my birth, about as much time has elapsed as from 1938, the occupation of Austria by the then German Empire, until now. Just to see the historical dimensions. When you turn on the TV, you sometimes have the impression that the horrible murders of National Socialism happened yesterday, and when you suddenly open the door, you catch the neighbor, as he inhales at his door with bloodthroating hands. That's all as far back as the battle of Kingsses until my birth – just so you have the historical dimension in mind. However, in connection with the problem of "arbitration" and reparation, I feel different from my predecessor Stoisits. If it has taken the view that nothing has yet to happen in Austria, then it is wrong. After the war, there were the so-called restitution commissions, they worked for many years in the judicial building on the middle platform. With acribie, the "arbitration" cases have been brought together there, and in those cases where there have been still living, able and interested victims, they have recovered what has been taken away from them. And for those cases in which these sacrifices were not available, or where they could not be raised, they no longer have lived, or have not been stable, there have been two places of collection: the A collection and the B collection. I can't remember it any more, although I've been working as a very young sponsor in these areas from the lawyer's component, but: These collection sites have captured everything that could not be returned to the individual injured because they either did not live anymore or did not want to care about it or were not there or they did not reach it. That is, it is nothing that has been "arranged" what was present in the files – and that was practically everything in an acrobic state – where it came through the "arrangement". It has made sure the owners got it back. In cases where it did not exist, this has been given to the collection sites. If one now represents the point of view, it was not right and not right, one has to improve and correct it – one can naturally want everything in democracy – but one must already realize that one does not want to fight injustice and make good again, which originates from the time of National Socialism and thus of an Injustice regime, but from the time of the Second Republic of Austria, a democratic republic with democratic institutions, with judges at the head of the Commissions and with a law-making body that has here instigated and called "National Council" as today – on the basis of the then laws. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Under the supervision of the Allies!]] It can be said that this has not been all right, all too little, but it must be recognized against whom this criticism is directed: not against National Socialism, but against the young Second Republic of Austria. I'm just saying this, because, as I said, the battle of royal greetings – the birth of Harald Ofner – is the year 2000, which are two approximately the same long span, and I can remember a lot of things. The provision commission will not be one or the other of you or most of them even by name after a term. I've still experienced it personally. [[Abg. Kiss: That's exactly the point!]] This is the disadvantage of the "late birth" that one does not know what happened then. I have the advantage of early birth, I have experienced all of this and therefore I know what I am talking about. But now I would like to say in telegram style, in four sentences, what I originally wanted to do today under the title Bundeskanzleramt/Budget. First: I note that the groups and their fate have not yet been mentioned by any speaker with one single word, although they belong to this area. Secondly, I would like to repeat what I have repeatedly explained from this speaker's point of view, namely that the liberals and with them their national group spokesman, Harald Ofner, are for the introduction of a state target in the federal constitution on the subject of ethnic groups. I'm just not quite excited about the text proposals that have been made, but again and again and again and again today I'm going to call myself and explain that. And as much as I know, this is a general confession on the part of the Federal Government. Thirdly, Someone e-mailed me, as they say today, and asked me whether we are in the government today, because we are in the government, we are also committed to what we Liberals have explained from here – I believe, also the ÖVP – that we could very well live in the ethnic group sector with the introduction of a Viril mandate for the peoples or their families in one day or another of the country. – I can only say: Yes! The liberals and I, we're for that. If we work out a mode that ensures that a member of the respective country days is always a ethnic group member, then we will make our voice available for it. I can remind you that you're finally going on with the town boards in Burgenland, as far as I've been able to observe that. For decades, one has only talked about the fact that the relevant representatives of the ethnic groups from a very specific corner have said that we do not want to do anything, because we want to be nothing but German and become: the so-called "robak method" was that. But today one is on, and the local panels will come, and this will have led and ensured the German government, viewed so badly from some sides.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7871	The next speaker was Mrs Binder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7893	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Ofner, the speaker's list is still relatively long, and I am convinced that Mr Posch will address the subject you are looking at. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: He just won't know! He will say everything possible, but he will not have experienced it!]] – He will not have experienced it, but he already knows what he is talking about. I would like to refer to Chapter 06: The Court of Auditors and, above all, Mr President, thank you very much for the quality of the reports and for your work on behalf of my group. I would ask you to forward this thanks to your house as well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The 2000 budget provides for 315 million schilling for the Court of Auditors; a small increase is noticeable. The audit activity of the Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, is very comprehensive and versatile and gives insight into the various topics. I would now like to draw out some points that are important to me and which are also up-to-date. On the one hand, the question of the response of the audited bodies or bodies to the Court of Auditors' criticisms and proposals for improvement. I think it would be a logical consequence to respond to these test reports. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the review report on the consolidation package, whose compliance has been assessed by the Court of Auditors. The two main criticisms in this context were the enormous transfers in the field of education – I think the word "national teachers" is sufficient – and also in the field of national defence. That's where I ask myself the question: To what extent are there long-term considerations on these two points in order to deal with these cost explosions on the one hand and, on the other hand, to meet the Court of Auditors' recommendations on the other? My conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that this budget continues to have quite clearly not savings but burden targets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Another point that I am interested in, Mr President, is the further way in which the Court of Auditors' constitutional mandate is to draw up an income report, according to the Reference Act. In the Committee you have literally said this – which we have already discussed –: This verifiable group can be divided into three areas: those who have made a public report, those who have reported anonymously, and those who have put themselves "dead". I think there are different positions for reporting. Mr President. My questions are as follows: To what extent could the data be collected through the post-term period set by you? Or are some still "dead"? Will you and your employees take the right to understand? In this context, of course, the question arises whether the necessary capacity for employees and staff in your home is sufficiently available for this purpose. However, it also raises the question of whether the refusal to disclose the references could have an impact on other "normal" testing activities and, as it were, could have consequences on other audited bodies, institutions and so on. One point that seems to me to be still important is the excellent cooperation of the Austrian Court of Auditors with the European Court of Auditors. The association of the International Court of Auditors was initiated by Austria. These joint teams, this joint work, are certainly still to be developed and, above all, to force within the EU Member States. This will ensure the efficient use of EU funds in the future. The last point, ladies and gentlemen, concerns something that is very important to me personally; we have already discussed it. The audit reports also refer to orders from the federal government to various companies. In this context, compliance with the principles of economy, economy and respect for fair competition will be reviewed above all. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] In my opinion, it is also a matter of checking what the employment conditions and the remuneration of employees in these companies look like. I believe that this would be an essential factor in making a serious offer and contributing to greater cost reliability and fairness. This aspect must certainly not be ignored. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: The work of the Court of Auditors is important and necessary. The forthcoming reports, ladies and gentlemen, will show whether this budget is socially fair and socially balanced, or whether this budget is a budget without social justice and without social balance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7954	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e7976	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! There is no alternative to consolidation of the government budget. This is a fact that is undisputed: in politics, in science, also in Europe. All budget experts call for restrictive expenditure policies and structural reforms. In the last ECOFIN Council in Austria, the EU Commission has strongly criticised, also criticised that the Commission's last clear recommendations on consolidation in 1998 have not been followed. The Federal Minister responsible at the time was Federal Minister Edlinger. Therefore, it must be politically undisputed that there must be a budget with priorities. All the more so today I have been amazed by the statements of speech and the flat-rate judgments of Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, including those of Mrs. Dr. Petrovic and Mrs. Mag. Stoisits. Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka came to the conclusion that the Federal Government was too little and in the wrong place; she threw the money out to the window with both hands. [[Abg. Swimmling: On the wrong side! Don't get out of the window!]] They bring the social compensation system to its top and have a linear savings concept. On the other hand, the ladies of the Green Group are coming to a completely different conclusion. They say it is one-sided ideological focus. – Yes, it is a focus, but it is certainly not one-sided and not one-sided ideological. In the chapter to be discussed today, for example, the funds for the ethnic groups are left unchanged and the art budget is much less reduced than the general reduction approaches. That is what Mrs Petrovic called "Füllhorn" for their own clients, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very unfortunate that it is not possible to have a real content, constructive discussion with the opposition parties about these priorities. I looked at the speeches and criticisms of the opposition parties in the committees in the "parliamentary correspondence" and found that there was actually criticism on every chapter, criticism, rejection, especially criticism of the cuts. There were fears about cuts in the sports budget. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior, which has been continuously increased in recent years, has given rise to concern. There should not be any cuts in the area of asylum. There must be increases in the field of civil service. Reductions in the field of discretionary support in the agricultural sector have been rejected. Critically, the cuts in the judicial sector were seen. The parole aid should be increased. There should be no "surpassing pension reform". Women's promotions must not be shortened. The reduction in youth promotion was seen critically. A reintroduction of home travel aid was discussed. There should be no reductions in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, but a promotion of small-scale hydropower plants. There were concerns about cuts in labour market policies, criticism of cuts in the foreign office, for example in the area of development cooperation and foreign culture. There was concern about "lack of budget resources in the field of education". There was severe criticism because of the cuts in the field of material expenditure in the university area. There was a critical budget situation in the Federal Army. The "Rase mower reduction" was criticized in public transport. There were strong criticisms about "cuts in the art sector". This is, as has been said, read in the "parliamentary correspondence". In fact, there was only criticism of budget cuts. Ms. Dr. Petrovic accused us of "selective savings" and, among other things, accused the Federal Government of running a NATO upgrade. – I was very confused because I read that opposition parties have seen a "critical budget situation" in the federal army. I miss all criticism – at least somewhere – constructive alternative proposals. Obviously – and I am personally sorry – the opposition has been practiced in political duty practice rhetoric. Especially in the currently difficult situation of Austrian finances, it would be appropriate to make common considerations of the political parties for budget renewal – all the more so than the larger opposition party, the social democrats, is essentially responsible for this heritage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In my opinion, Austria does not live by the funding, but Austria lives by the work and the innovative power of its population. And this must be made possible through appropriate framework conditions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The state can no longer spend more than it can take, and it will be time, ladies and gentlemen, to face this fact. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] The government has begun to take urgent structural measures: a pension reform, measures in the health system and the public sector, measures that have been called "indispensable" by all experts. In this context, I only quote economic professor Bernhard Felder: Without pension reform, the total budget chaos threatens! - Quote. As we know, the EU Commission has also called for this reform. There, too, the reactions of the opposition parties are only the usual resistance reflection. - I'm sorry. I now turn very briefly to the art budget, which is available for treatment here today. In this area in particular, I believe that I can find the necessary balance between the requirements of fiscal consolidation and the means necessary for the promotion of art. In the Federal estimates 2000 the art budget is 1.1 billion schilling compared with 1.15 billion schilling in 1999. The original reductions in the discretionary area, provided by former Minister of Finance Edlinger, could be prevented by 20 percent, which had particularly affected the art budget. The amount of the cuts now provided is between 6 and 9 percent. I would particularly like to highlight the positive approach of Mr Morak, Secretary of State, which sees these cuts as a reform task. With this – and this has touched me very well – he breaks through this approach of thinking, which has been carried out in the budget discussions, namely the Lamento on cuts and the way in which the budget resources have been taken into account in the past: What once was there must also be there – something else does not exist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you do not have the means available, you have to find other forms of support and choose an innovative approach to achieve the desired political goal; and a undoubtedly innovative and long-term call for the artist to do so is the tax relief negotiated by State Secretary Morak for artists. The distribution of income over three years is contrary to the irregular incomes of artists and allows them to have a more balanced course of their incomes. Furthermore, the extension of the benefit to artists in Austria makes Austria more attractive as a place of residence; the package for artists also makes the tax declaration very much easier for them. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an innovative approach. I would also like to stress positively the emphasis of the Federal Chancellor in his budget, which is also to be understood as a political priority. The funds for the ethnic groups have not been reduced – in other areas – and this is a positive one. There are also encouraging activities in the media sector. Finally, the Federal Government has commissioned the long-term overdue frequency assessment. The former German Chancellor climate should have been doing this for a long time. This will clarify whether and how the terrestrial frequency can be used without preventing digitization. There are also preparatory work for a media organisation, and in autumn, when all of this is completed and a thorough preparation is under way, a parliamentary discussion on these issues can begin. I hope it will be a contentious discussion. In conclusion: The draft budget is a step in the right direction. There's still a lot of work ahead of us. I am convinced that the Federal Government will continue its well-started work accordingly and will finish well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8049	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8071	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to accept the challenge and respond briefly to the remarks made by my predecessor, who meant that criticism on the part of the opposition alone stems from criticism, that is, criticism in a form that overall gives a completely distorted picture, and that no constructive proposals would have come to the budget situation. I would like to address two points shortly before I come to my real subject area, namely the art budget. Point one: From the process, from the pace, from the eighth of opposition and oppositional rights, from democracy within Parliament, the last few weeks were certainly not a highlight. There were some examples in the past, keyword: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young]] Civil Service Law Novelle, which meant that as an opposition party, one really had to worry about democracy in Parliament. Applications were submitted five minutes before the end of the meeting, which were discussed only for five minutes, and were then voted immediately. This is not a climate in which you can really make and discuss constructive proposals. We Greens have nevertheless made constructive proposals. Point two: I would just like to sum up briefly what has been proposed by the Greens in the direction of budget consolidation on points. At least there came the proposal for a financial compensation reform. There is our concept of environmental tax reform, which we have been promoting for years, which could also have a very positive impact on the workplace situation; over 70 000 jobs could thus be created in Austria. We have also agreed to the need to discuss the extent in the area of housing development. Our health spokesman Kurt Grünewald has presented a very convincing reform for the hospital sector, a very convincing reform that would allow for very high cost efficiency. We also meant that it would be necessary to look at the whole area of tax law, in which – word: Foundations – to accumulate 400 billion Schilling tax-free. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think these two points, namely the existing climate and the lack of willingness to cooperate with the government parties, are worth mentioning. I personally have experienced situations in which I was told: There's no point in making a request. It's all fixed anyway. – Such events are not a prerequisite for constructive parliamentary work. Thirdly, The colleague for the previous speaker said that the art budget had not been cut disproportionately or disproportionately. This is such an area in which the sentence or claim, it all meets the same, really ad absurdum, because it hits some in such a way that their existence is threatened and destroyed. [[Abg. Grandruck: Where?]] Those who now face the threat of existence and destruction are worth being led here, because they are clearly forgotten. There's a creeping repression. It is a silent death of very many institutions, institutions, cultural initiatives that do work that has not been mentioned or that has been thought of today. [[Abg. Großruck: These are only common places! ...on the table!]] Art State Secretary Morak has suggested that the art, this extremely important area in which the creative resource of this society is prepared for the next generations, is largely spared by cuts, and he has used beautiful figures, since he is clearly trained in the art of beautiful words. It is not the case that this area has to be reduced less, but on the contrary: There is a reduction beyond the 10-percent limit, which affects some areas so over-dimensional that their existence is threatened. I would like to take some examples because in this area, excellent achievements, which are also honoured internationally, are being done: for example, the Austrian film industry. Even in the Government Convention, the focus is on film. The focus of film, the film location Austria, all that has already happened on the edge of the economic area, all that could be won in awards in the last two years – I only remember the Venice Biennale or the Viennale; Barbara Albert received a prize, all of which are international awards in a sector that builds in Austria on incredibly creative resource or on very great creativity. In this area there is a 40 percent reduction. 40 percent! This means that the world-famous Austrian documentary, that all that is available on short films, on advanced projects, will no longer be possible in the future. A project like "Nordrand" by Barbara Albert will no longer be feasible in Austria under the conditions that they have now been fixed. These are the threats to existence that I have spoken about, which is the point of which we can say: It is all so similar that some are even threatened in their existence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The subject of media policy has already been addressed. Also threatened are the recently broadcast free radios. It is not true that in Austria we have a media scene, a variety of media that would be exemplary internationally. On the contrary: We have a rather meager, rather poor media landscape; and any additional project that brings a more critical public is to be supported. The free radios, which need a total of ridiculous 7 million schillings to survive, will no longer receive schilling, as it now looks. This means that these ambitious projects, which have recently joined the network, are no longer supported by the federal government. It is also noteworthy that Mr Morak's cynical remark is that these non-commercial radios may sell advertising times. – They may sell advertising times and thus be subject precisely to the principle that the production of a critical public, an independent public, regardless of both politics and the economy, is no longer possible. However, I would like to remind you briefly that there are over 400 cultural initiatives in Austria. Of these 400 cultural initiatives, the least know how it will continue in the future and whether it will be available in the future. It should be assumed that, in particular, the scepticism towards and the resistance to the black and blue government, which prevails disproportionately in these cultural initiatives, have also led to the fact that there will no longer be any further subsidies in this area. Now to the order of magnitude: It's not about budget recovery, it's not about sums that would be relevant in any way. This is a thousandth of the budget: This is the art budget, including the large Bundestheater and the large museums. That's a minimal issue. This is a matter of political appreciation and priorities. And the budget has a very clear priority in this case: All that has at least had its right of existence in recent years in the free, non-commercial, critical, public-sector media as well as art and cultural institutions in Austria should not have this in the future. This is the government's answer to the criticism of the artists, artists and cultural creators of this government. And that's a stranglehold! Finally, I would like to say that we Greens will continue to have a role for these groups that will continue to work, even if they can no longer exist and no longer have budgets available for their cultural work. This is a point that is no longer reversible. Once a creative public in Austria has been wiped out – we had that before – then it is no longer easily restored. I ask you to consider this. I am also happy to make constructive proposals in this direction. In the direction of my previous speaker: It is not about cheap polemic criticism, it is about many, many people who want to use their creativity for the future, for the future generations, and who are now being prevented because they have "wanted" to express themselves critically to a black and blue government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8144	Mr Morak spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8166	Ladies and gentlemen! Love still here. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. I would like to say, like a sluggish grip, that we have fallen here and that we would like to take art into the grip, become a bit more objective and briefly represent the principles of this government's cultural policy. Let me get a little historical. The Kunstbudget 2000 is exactly 1.1 billion schilling. And now I'm also saying: This is a twenty-second of the art budget in this country – so we don't want to overestimate it now, but it's a twenty-seventh. The last art budget was 1.15 billion schilling, which was 50 million schilling more. The whole thing has also happened in the light of the fact that there has been a 20 percent bond of discretionary expenditure, which was pronounced in December last year, and of this, art policy in our country would have been quite affected. However, this must also be seen from the point of view of the fact that in the context of art policy many promises have been made, which have not been suspended by any financial measure. My first three weeks as a State Secretary, I was forced to listen to artists when they told me that this had been promised to them and that had been promised to them. I asked the Minister for Finance, I asked my officials back, and they said that this should be covered extra-budgetaryly. – These were the facts I faced in the first three weeks of my State Secretariat. However, some commitments have been made that total 620 million schillings; that is a little more than half of my ordination. These included the cultural capital Graz, the structural renovation of the "Josefstadt", the Konzerthaus and the coverage of the commitments to the Vienna Philharmonic, which, however, only became striking in 2001. So it was not only about preventing this 20 percent reduction in discretionary expenditure, but also about, at a time when the budgets are getting tighter and tighter, helping art and creativity to find intelligent financing models, by which structural measures are also to be initiated and covered. The budget has a deficit of 4.5 percent last year. Now you can calculate what you want, and we can then come at any amount, but of course the structural measures in the concert hall and in the theatre in Josefstadt are also cultural measures. As the Minister of Finance has already said, it is not an optimal budget, but the maximum possible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I don't mean it cynically now, but very seriously: I understand these cuts as an order from the artists and as an order from the taxpayers to this government. It's about reorganising accounting in the art section. The accounting arrangements in the art section were stone-temporary. It is about efficiency and compliance with the financial regulations of that Republic. It is about transparency through a computer changeover of the budget of the art section, so that access, how much was spent, when something is spent, is finally secured. It is also about the evaluation of all funding approaches – in accordance with my officials and in accordance with the advisory committees. And it is about intensive dialogue – for the first time after years – with the officials of this section. It is, of course, also a chance to make decisions. It is also the task of the opposition to criticize them, but I invite you to any dialogue and even ask for it. We must make decisions; and the decisions will fall for the artists, for the creative and for creativity. There will be no cuts in prices, there will be no cuts in scholarships, and there will be no cuts in social, i.e. we will clean up the artist's aid fund. This has a deficit of 28 million schilling! We'll clean him up! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Furthermore, it is about creating an artist's social insurance scheme. We will present an advanced work in this area, and I hope you will be able to agree. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But we are also for an adaptation to organizations, associations and mediation institutions, for a flexibilization, because art makes the artists – and not the participants in creativity. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] But it will also be a major task that will concern us over the next few years to develop a trend that has been falling asleep in our country for years. This is that art and cultural policy also requires demands on the part of the economy, but also on the part of the individual; the participation models need to be increased, and I say: in addition to the existing transfers – not instead of those, but in addition to the existing transfers. Traditional funding structures do not make sense for many modern cultural techniques, they are non-financing and they are not manageable. New equity models such as risk capital and depreciation models are required. All this was taboo so far. As a start, here I put the amendment of the Income Tax Act to the fact that artists' income can be distributed over three years, that there is a bonus clause and that there is a set-aside of operating expenditure. This is a quantum leap in cultural policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The artist is identified by this government not only as a recipient of transfers, but as a tax being and as an essential factor in this society. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your cooperation... – This is "net"! [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: As a controllable being!]] I ask you to cooperate in cultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8274	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8296	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig, before you leave the hall, I would like to tell you the following: If the government makes clear proposals, they should be less concerned about democracy here in the House, because these proposals are being dealt with in a parliamentary way, but rather worry when democracy is threatened by green activism in here. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now on my real topic. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should not let the debate on Advisory Groups I and II pass without talking about the issue of "citizen proximity and federalism", which this Federal Government is dedicated to. The old, red-black government had in this area, in the opening of society as a whole, but also in order to address a very specific issue, unfortunately in the state reform of God's many years of failure, and in terms of federalism and proximity to the citizen, therefore a considerable congestion has arisen. – However, this Federal Government has formulated clear and ambitious objectives in these areas – and it will implement them. The relationship between the federal government and countries must be subject to a fundamental reorganisation. There will therefore be immediate and structural measures in this regard. Some of these emergency measures are the establishment of national administrative courts for the purpose of ensuring faster access to citizens' rights, including at national level. Investment law will also be reformed to support the security of Austria's economic location. The national conference of the Heads of State or Government is given its meaning accordingly. There will be an enrollment bid, and the right to vote at national level will be reformed, and in particular the choice of letters will be made possible. An important area, however, is the division of national competence. Ladies and gentlemen, as closed, rounded and problem-oriented areas of competence are to be created, clear areas of responsibility for the federal government, for countries and communities – and a strengthening of the rights of the countries and communities, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. The overall efficiency of all administrative processes should be the objective. The indirect federal administration is to be abandoned and the principle legislation is no longer to be passed. As part of a general competence of the countries, all country competences are to be listed in a demonstration. A comprehensive reform of the Federal Council with the aim of upgrading it to a Chamber of State, which also deserves this name, is sought by this Federal Government. In this context, it would like to know the right of consent of the Federal Council on decisions of the National Council with which countries and local authorities are re-introduced. Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of proximity to citizens, this Federal Government is also taking new steps. The long-standing demand from us Freeman after the end of Proporz, Party Accounting, Waste, Privilege Economy and political acquisition of all social areas by parties is followed by this Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 30 years of socialism have made Austria the final light of Europe in many areas, not only in budgetary, but also in social areas. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It is you who consider this country to be your own personal property that has degenerated citizens and made your party book to the extent of all things. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] Every minute of socialist politics led to a debt of 100 000 S! Every minute of socialist politics! Today, we are facing a huge debt mountain – which has already been debated this morning: 1.7 trillion Schilling debt! More than 1 million people live on the poverty line, with women and families particularly affected. The health system is broken, pensions are at risk, and Austria's economic location is seriously weakened by an excessive tax and tax burden. All of this is the result of your policy! On the other hand, the new Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, ensures that performance is put before the party book economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] We ensure depoliticization of all supervisory councils, for example in the ÖIAG. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We also ensure more democracy within the framework of our democratic package. The fact that closeness to the citizen, federalism and subsidiarity are important not only at national level but also at pan-European level demonstrates the anti-contractual behaviour of the EU-14 Austria. – We see the importance of defending the interests of the individual and of smaller political units. Ladies and gentlemen! This government will do all that – and it will have us liberal Members as friends in this way.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8405	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8426	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! The question we have to address here – and I believe that this is really pretty much the only point that everyone will probably agree to here – is not whether, but how to clean up this budget. On this question as to how there are a number of different approaches for a government. The budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, sets out what priorities a government sets, what topics it is dealing with and what interests it wants to represent, and that is totally independent of how closely the budgetary framework is. That is, for Minister Mag. Grasser – and certainly not for the ÖVP! – Although this budget may still have the excuse that it needs to rehabilitate a budget deficit which it has no responsibility for, there is also power to address the question of how it wants to reorganise this deficit. Grasser no more excuses, not all over the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a government which, like no other, insists on being measured by its actions, and I would like to accept this invitation and measure it by providing a budget, creating employment and opening up opportunities that are socially balanced and that lead to a sustainable budget consolidation. I'll start with point one: Is it possible for this government to provide a budget that creates jobs? In fact, the draft budget contains a number of employment policies – unfortunately, they are only in the wrong direction. To all our memories: This budget deals with the reduction of staff in the public service, massive cuts in discretionary expenditure, lack of resources for labour market promotion, and it is also – please do not forget that! – to increase the retirement age, which will also burden the labour market alone with approximately 47 000 people who are a problem group on the labour market. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only measures that resist the drastic negative impact this budget will have on employment are the reduction of additional labour costs and the cost of childcare. Unfortunately, the reduction in additional labour costs is financed to a considerable extent by means of holiday quotas, which unfortunately eliminates the employment effect. It remains a medium-term effect of perhaps a maximum of 5,000 jobs – at least long after the end of this legislative period. The childcare allowance will actually have an impact on the labour market by reducing the supply of labour, namely: 20 000 women are kept away from the labour market and will contribute to the beauty of the unemployment rate. And the women pay for this with lost opportunities for reasonable training and perhaps even for a fulfilling career. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this is the government's employment offensive, with which it wants to compensate for the massive negative effects on employment contained in this budget, then this can only really be described as a pitiful attempt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So if this government wants to be measured by its actions, and if this government has also set itself the goal of creating employment, it has failed with this budget. I come to point two of this, on the question: Are the budgetary measures socially balanced? Generally speaking, it can be seen that the government wants to reorganise the budget on the expenditure side, especially when considering it in the longer term. Ladies and gentlemen! You can read in any textbook that a reduction in the government rate affects the lower levels of income, that is, the "small" people, usually more than is the case with a revenue consolidation. On the revenue side, however, the government is, as it were, more easy to strengthen this trend and to burden the lower levels of income more strongly than the upper ones. The shift in the tax burden from wage and income tax to consumer taxes and fees, for example, is quite clear in the sense that the lower incomes are more taxed. In the clear text, this means that the lower incomes are twice as heavy as the upper incomes. – These calculations, ladies and gentlemen, are not the result of a fundamental critique on the government, but you can calculate it. This is also learned in every economic study, already in the first part of the study. If someone wants to follow the opinion of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany who, as has already been quoted, lets us know in a press release last week that he considers these assessments to be real "unsense," I can only say: There are a number of study libraries available where you can also read this whole "unsense". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel is not present now; I would have had a personal concern to tell him that himself, because it really hit me personally very much that he is standing before us and thanking the entrepreneurs on several occasions – as was already mentioned by a colleague before me – that they are making a contribution to budget recovery, but with no word, however, mentioning the workers who are certainly making a greater contribution to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Pure class struggle is what you say!]] But even if Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel wants to conceal this: The quoted "small people" are asked to cash out twice and triple at this budgetary remediation rate – while entrepreneurs have to benefit from the tax reform, do not have to contribute to its financing, and also receive tax gifts to a degree that leaves any sense of justice missing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to point three, on the question: Do the planned measures lead to a sustainable reorganisation of the budget? In my opinion, not only will the planned budget target be exceeded despite good economic conditions. – I am saving you and myself more precise explanations about this; You can read this in many publications. The biggest problem, however, is that structural measures, which lead to a permanent renovation, are practically missing. And this, ladies and gentlemen, means – even if this is disputed so far – that the next load package is already at the doorstep. Against this background, too, I do not understand why the government is distributing tax gifts to companies and agriculture, tax gifts that the "small" people then have to pay. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Which tax presents please?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Youth speech!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You speak differently with such a person!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If it was the aim of this federal government to create a budget that creates employment, is socially balanced in its impact, and with which a sustainable budget recovery rate is to be set, then the Federal Government has not achieved any objective. – On the other hand, when it comes to making additional gifts to large entrepreneurs and millionaires and to having the "small" people pay for it, ladies and gentlemen, this government has been carried out all the way through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8562	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8583	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and here in plenary! High house! During a budget-general debate there are, of course, the various findings, and in this context perhaps at the beginning of Mr Bösch's speech from the outset: Our country is really not that broken, as you, Mr Bösch, meant, here, that everything was ruined and so on. – That’s really not how it is! It is not, however, Mrs Kubitschek, as you have said here, that this country would face a social disaster. If you are asking the question of how to rehabilitate, I would rather ask you: Why do we need to be rehabilitated? – Because years beyond measure have been lived and managed, and we now have to correct that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance is right if he has said today and here: We need a stable, calculable financial policy! And we do this with responsibility, courage and commitment. We ask ourselves the challenge, no question at all! This is why we are doing this in order to ensure stability as well as employment and further economic development. All of this is important in order to deal with the problems of the future. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to do all of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In Austria, there are also some favourable conditions: a good economic situation – and a new government that is totally facing this challenge. Whoever spends more and more than he takes, threatens the future – and does not insure everyone, and that does not benefit anyone, and not our country at all! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That was also our line in 1995 when we started a new budgetary policy with you from the SPÖ; only we could not go through with you in this consequence until the end. The current situation is extremely difficult to describe; we know that. But it must also be said that the needs of citizens have become others, that expectations are now greater. And in part, you talk to people about this, and that's not exactly something that would make things easier. In addition, we must all be clear that we today have the EU standards and that we also have clear standards in this regard. Since today Mr Klubobmann Kostelka here said that we should not hide from the ÖVP behind the former Minister of Finance Edlinger – by the way: we do not love this hiding place anyway – I would like to answer him: This hiding place would not be good, because Mr. Finanzminister Edlinger has hidden us too much, and that is why we do not need to hide behind Edlinger, but: We are dealing with this crisis ourselves. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (in the direction of SPÖ) How was that with the crack sausage?]] They accuse us of making a policy only for homeowners, for self-employed, medium-sized and larger farmers. – Look You're looking at our government programme, look at the budget approaches! There are truly clear guidelines for all the citizens of our country, for all groups of society, for our aim is not to limit anyone. Our aim is to be there for all, to the extent that it is possible and binding in the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You talk of the SPÖ today about social injustice, social weakness, and I would like to ask you to give me the question: How can it be that after 30 years of telling you about the SPÖ, it's still – we don't realize – but this is a general finding – there are nearly 1 million people who are vulnerable to poverty? – This one of your policies was not the very best! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You can read it yourself. This is also the reason why price correction is announced. You said from SPÖ today that the pensions were at risk – look at the demographic development in our country! Solution You're a little bit of your party constraints! Look You're going to be honest with this – and you're going to know very clearly what it's really about! They also say from the SPÖ that the health insurance companies would no longer be able to serve the people and deliver their services. – I say to you: Yes, a crisis is there, also in our hustle and bustle, in the social security of farmers, but: New medicine needs new approaches, new services also need new financial instruments. – These are also questions that we will discuss here in the coming weeks and months. We from the government parties are well prepared for this, and that is why we are facing this challenge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Today, among other things, we are dealing with the discussions on the budget group on the upper institutions, and we must say: There is also a need to take account of the process of change in society and the economy. The citizens of our country have different needs and ideas than they did a few years ago. Their sensitivity to legislation and decisions by administrative authorities and courts has increased. Everything is being questioned more and more frequently and is also subject to more frequent examination and criticism. And I mean, that's also good, it reflects the development of society to more independence and more self-responsibility of citizens. We also need to note how this happens, for example, in the framework of our programmes "citizen society", "more self-responsibility" and the like. For all these reasons, there has been increased public access to the public prosecutor's office for years. You, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, again received the 10,000 proposals last year. Some 4,000 have been examined as far as I have taken your report. I am convinced that this is a very good establishment for the public prosecutors – not only because you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, are very involved in personal activities, but because you are interpreting the interests between administration, legislation and citizens in your institution. The citizens come to you, and you explain to them all the complications, thus giving the citizen security or confidence. In this House, an expansion of the public prosecutor's competences has already been discussed several times. In any case, I think you should consider whether outsourced posts, such as the AMS, should also have access to reviews. In all cases, this should be discussed very in principle, as should possible involvement of the public prosecutor in the preparation of the law or law. There is also a similar development in the use of the Administrative and Constitutional Court. We hope that we can finally continue to implement the state reform, which we also have to deal with with you from the SPÖ – at least in those elements and those areas where we ourselves have the choice to find solutions to the discharge of the Supreme Courts. We also hope that the election of letters will not only be a declared political objective in the future, but will be possible. The Contributory Restriction Act has already been adopted. The President of the Court of Auditors is sorry – and many with him. In the future, we will have to consider whether laws are advised in a form and then be decided which make an administration almost impossible for the downstream administration. Finally, an excerpt from a comment in the "Kurier" in which Andrea Hodoschek wrote that there will be no room for manoeuvre, because "this government will soon have to present a rigorous and comprehensive savings package and take seriously the overdue structural reforms". And it was said in this comment – I quote –: "A real step is the planned pension reform" – that is, not we say, but the "Kurier" – "and the savings in the public service. This should also be seen by the trade union. Opposition policy must not go so far as to negate realities." - Quote. That should also become aware of you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8687	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8708	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I am obviously one of the few speakers in this debate today, which deals with the topic of the Supreme Institutions in a substantial way – and it is so important to deal with the subject of public prosecutorry in particular, there are a number of more than questionable intentions which are obviously to be turned under the carpet. And ÖVP and FPÖ seem to have a bad conscience, because not even in the committee – and this has certainly occurred to you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate – Members of the Government Party spoke on the subject of People's Procuratorate. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Previously, Mr Donabauer spoke about this!]] For a moment, my colleague! In the past, in my speeches to the People's Procuratorate, I have often had some criticism of the Greens, but there have been attempts and tendencies to use the People's Procuratorate as a sort of opposition instrument, to instrumentalize it. For my part, there was some criticism, but with some understanding, because the public prosecutorate controls the administration and shows maladministration, which is also the task of the opposition. However, the opposition often seemed to be side by side with the People's Procuratorate of Opposition Policy. As an opposition speaker, I would like to say in principle: The Public Prosecutor's Office is not an opposition instrument, but a Constitutional institution with very specific tasks when other ways for the citizen are unsuccessful, missed, installed or otherwise problematic. So the People's Procuratorate is not an opposition instrument, but also, and not at all, a government instrument, ladies and gentlemen. The Public Prosecutorship is not an extended arm of the government parties towards case law or legislation – but that is exactly what Khol and Westenthaler want with their relevant requests. The invoice that's being hired here is simple: There are two things in the public prosecutor's office: two positions occupy government parties – that's the majority, and so to speak, it's a government struggle for billboards and for the influence on independent justice. [[Abg. Donabauer: Was that always the case?]] - That's how it looks. [[Abg. Fischl: As the bad guy thinks he is!]] [[Further call to the liberals.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, are you so suspicious in this regard? Why, Mr Fischl, is the FPÖ so suspicious to misuse or instrumentalise extra-party institutions or parliamentarianism? Who is the chairman of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ? – It is curious and just too significant that the honourable Member is the head, who has sung "Psalms of Democracy" here for many years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: An excellent man!]] You have almost heard the organ music when my colleague, Mr President, has been speaking about democracy here, ladies and gentlemen. He has just celebrated "high offices" here, which belongs to or does not belong to Parliament. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Mr Haupt not only speaks that way, but it is!]] And this colleague's head now has the chairmanship in a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors' Committee. Is that not a classical task of the opposition – whether in the European Union, whether in all civilized parliaments, even in the municipalities, in the countryside?- Oh, my God! Is that not a matter of course?! – These are control bodies, Mr. Klubobmann Khol! That is where opposition politicians are supposed to bear the responsibility! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The spices from Vranckky hurt you!]] - I'll talk about that right now. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The 36 free flights from Vranckky hurt you! You'd rather investigate yourself so you can cover it up...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Khol and Mr Haupt therefore pursue two objectives: firstly, a blockade for the control activities of the Members of the House towards the government. It would really be enough to control, for example, staff policy in the environment, better said: in the dark circle of Minister Grasser, or the order policy in the environment, in the dark circle of Minister Bartenstein: Who gets which posts, who orders, which orders with what ideological requirements? The second goal of Mr. Klubobmann Khol and Mr. Haupt: a strategy against former successful German chancellors of the Republic of Austria, who were happy to see and are successful and recognized abroad, Austria-wide, EU-wide. [[Call to the liberals: Where is Mr. Gusenbauer?]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Federal Chancellor's bowl? – Well, a "G'riss" is not exactly about him as far as state visits are concerned. The simple FPÖ member Haider, the Kärntner head of state? – Well, he has to go through the back door at airports, dear colleague Fischl, and he has to attribute that to himself. [[Abg. Fischl: How can you talk as you do?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I urge the government parties to end the unsustainable state that a Member of a government party shall hold the Presidency in a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors Committee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Back to the People's Pronunciation – and to an old proverb: "Sister, stay with your performance!" There the work could continue to be made good, solid and valuable. Dedicated and committed people are at work, and I am not about to say, ladies and gentlemen, that: Please continue with this thanks, but also the appeal to your employees not to be abused in order to spit around in justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call unto the liberals: Oh God, O God!]] What does the "Small Newspaper" write about this, which cannot be described as extremely critical of government? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Yes, what does she say?]] I'll read this to you in a moment, Mr. Graf. In this article, I quote: "People's lawyers are known to be sent by the political parties and must serve their interests. To assert these interests also in court proceedings..., at best can be referred to as a snap idea: too hot, too much beer beaked." - Quote. "Too hot," Mr. Khol said, "too much beer was made", Mr. Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Hans Klecatsky – someone familiar with the Austrian judiciary – says: constitutionally unacceptable, legistic dilettant; Volksanwälte are exponents or confidants of political parties. Mr. Klubobmann Khol! You have also received a letter from the President of the Administrative Court, namely from University Professor Dr. Stenciler. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Jabloner!]] What does the professor write to you? – He writes – I quote –: It is in principle to be feared that a contourless, but also particularly worrying, instrument will be created to exert pressure on the independent judges of the Administrative Court from outside. - Quote. This is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, want to do: Exercising pressure. [[Abg. Böhacker: Which template?]] Please also direct your employees that they should not be politicized by ÖVP and FPÖ for legislative strategies. Is it really so difficult to see through, ladies and gentlemen, what "constitutional arc" theorists Khol has in practice? Is it so difficult to understand that a new field of agitation and political tactics is to be opened up? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Greens' request to support this is a legislative initiative for the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We have just recently registered with horror how ÖVP and FPÖ make personnel orders at delicate state offices. Have you ever forgotten that an independent minister of justice was sent to the desert and a party attorney of FPÖ, a private lawyer of Dr. Haider, is now a Minister of Justice in the government? [[Abg. Fischl: From Saul to Paul!]] – How did the FPÖ not weather about proporz, post-chachers, friendly business – and now, ladies and gentlemen? Now is the party attorney of the FPÖ Justice Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! What do you think you can sell people for?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary and in conclusion: The Volksanwälten won't stand in the area of justice – that's not in question at all! The separation of violence between justice and administration is too important. Also "Constitutional Arch" Theorists Khol will not be able to change this easily with a dash. Secondly, Law initiatives are reserved for the people, the delegates and the government politicians and are not set by Korosec and Schender on behalf of Khol and Westenthal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8964	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e8989	Mr Krautler has given me... – [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Without "l"!]] [[Calls:Kräuter]] I'm actually correcting myself: Mr Herzegovina has indicated that I would have received a letter from the President of the Scha bloner Administrative Court. I'll put it in the right place. Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities: I received a letter from the President of the Administrative Court of Yes bloner. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In addition, the proposal on the rights of the public prosecutor's office to bring in laws and to review the delay in the proceedings of the judicial system is a proposal that Klubobmann Kostelka and Klubobmann Khol had jointly prepared and incorporated into a government programme of another government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9057	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9078	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High Public Prosecutor's Office! Mr. Herb, it's right: It's "two to one" in the People's Procuratorate. I don't understand what you have against the fact that two ladies are inside and only one man. I even think that's great. That is why your criticism is really inappropriate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Silhavy really did insecure me by saying that the DB as a family compensation fund is paid by the workers. [[Abg. Fischl: This is a strong news!]] This is a "strong message" in the truest sense of the word. It says: Service provider contribution to the Family Allowance Fund. Why does it actually mean service providers' contributions when the service provider pays? Have I made a false wage bill for 30 years as an economic trustee? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy! How is that, I can You may even consider your actual correction as an application. Do you want the service providers to pay in the future? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Is that a request? Or can we do it half-and-half, servicer share and servicer share? So I really don't know you anymore. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] I am really insecure, and I am afraid that sometime one of my clients will complain that the service provider's contribution to the family compensation fund has been paid by the service provider and not by the servant, and he will refer to the actual correction of Mrs Silhavy here in the House. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You don't know each other!]] Or was this to be understood as a request, and do you want the DB to be paid by the employee in the future? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That's what she wanted!]] – Then we will tell the workers clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This ignorance!]] But now to this draft budget. It is truly amazing that the Social Democratic Group, a party that has held the Minister of Finance for 30 years, did not even find a single positive half-rate, nor did it say one word about the fact that a budget was drawn up in a real act of strength within a very short time – I say quite consciously – with the cooperation of outstanding officials of the Ministry of Finance. No word of thanks from the Social Democracy side to the employees of that house, to which members of the Social Democracy have been for decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fischl.]] This is significant for how the SPÖ deals with the workers! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has once again tried to draw a horror and chaos scenario. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! That really doesn't believe you anymore! No one really believes you any more what you do best here. If you already quote Professor Lehner, you should quote him completely. In the budget hearing, all the experts have clearly stated on my question: Within the short period of time, in the few weeks available, there were no significant alternatives to the proposal. – You should take note of this! You can't steal from that! You left behind an edellinger hole of 109 billion schilling. They have left behind a really pitiful budget situation. And if you go out here and talk about a "tax package", that's really more than cool! Where, then, was the social conscience of the party which has seriously deteriorated the tax environment for the disabled, which for many years has kept workers waiting for pay-backs because the exemption decisions which have introduced an energy tax, a electricity and gas tax? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] Where was the social conscience of that party, which for a year – it was a finance minister from the SPÖ – delayed the increase of the kilometre money and thus hit the donor? Where was the social conscience when you cut the karenz money? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The social conscience is with you now?]] Where was the union, where was the Chamber of Labour, where was the pressure of the street when you decided to take these measures at the expense of Austrian citizens? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Where was the cry of Mr. Walterskirchen, where was the criticism? Now that he is the expert at SPÖ, he suddenly gave negative opinions in the hearing in the Budget Committee. Mr Schieder, who also spoke of a "tax package", said that: The year 2000 brings 28 billion schilling to citizens' relief – to the co-authorship: 28 billion schilling – and a tax adjustment of 7 billion, remain 21 billion schilling! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Please also say why!]] Mr President, you have decided this tax reform together with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Whom you rejected!]] Yes, I agree, that's right. But what you didn't do is: You have not provided a cover, not a financing of this tax reform! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You've been running budget-political hackery! This is the truth – and not what you say here! Mr President, I should like to thank Take note that the fiscal consolidation of this federal government certainly does not happen from Jux and Tollery or is even an act of malice to the tax citizen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Budget consolidation is an act of social responsibility and living solidarity! Budget consolidation is the prerequisite for prosperity in Austria, a prerequisite for not endangering this prosperity, but even further expanding it. Budget consolidation is, above all, also the prerequisite for those people who are in need of it who do not fall into the poverty trap. Budget consolidation is also to secure the future of our children and grandchildren, so that there is no generation conflict and that social peace is guaranteed. However, fiscal consolidation also means creating those financial scopes that allow for anti-cyclical counter-taxation in economically worse times, job security, job creation, and thus full employment. Ladies and gentlemen! There is therefore no positive alternative to this budgetary course of this Federal Government and the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser! I can assure you: We will not be moved by the pressure of the trade unions or by the pressure of the Chamber of Workers or the pressure of the street from this positive budgetary consolidation course.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9310	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9332	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Some comments on the comments made by my previous speaker. We have heard in recent days and weeks about the excellent labour market data. – Now we have just heard how many billions of Schilling the Austrians get more. But we all know that the government is responsible for this excellent work – and not the new Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That is why you have also been chosen!]] It's a shame that Mr. Donabauer isn't here in the hall right now, because he meant that about 1 million Austrians are at risk of poverty. – In this form of new governance, we will have to fear that 2 million people will soon be at risk. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is no way to discuss certain facts and figures. Wonderful, beautiful words – there would have to be loud benefits to the Austrians. But when you look closely, you see: Your budget is a burden budget without social balance! Whether someone's happy or not, that's one thing, fact is the other! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the government programme, you can see a blue-black thread that runs through this program, namely a redistribution of the little ones to the big ones. But I would like to say a few words about some areas of the federal government. The same applies to this area: from the little ones to the big ones. Nothing but empty words for the "little" people. If, in the public service, thousands of planned posts are not to be re-occupied in the next few years, someone has to explain – I have already addressed this question in the Committee to the Federal Chancellor – how it can be understood that the overhead area, the staff stations, is expanding that new uses are introduced. I have a question on my mind: Are they officials or special contracts? no answer received. But one thing is interesting: Expensive functions are created, small functions are rationalized to thousands and not re-occupied! – Also from the little ones to the big ones, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, the general provision of services must be carried out in the interests of the State, in the interests of our Constitution, both in central and secondary areas. No one, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently breaking our heads about how there can be found with fewer staff, without the job being taken back, in the future. We have also discussed these issues here in the House, but also in the Committee. In connection with the reorganisation of the ministries, a number of things have also been expressed here. But if all of us are always talking about saving, efficiency, acceleration, then we also have to say here how it can be understood that the service section at that time in the Federal Chancellor's Office, which came to the Federal Ministry of Finance in the past legislative period – which was good because the commitments of agreement have been lost – is now coming back into its own newly created ministry; in a ministry – everyone knows that! – which is smaller than most sections in other ministries. You can also think about it, because we all know: There you need a presidential section, high-ranking officials – right up to the service car. And the commitments are necessary again. I don't know how to talk about efficiency gains in this context of administrative simplification, acceleration of procedures, I don't know, someone has to explain that. Again and again one finds the same question: new high and highest functions, and again and again the little ones are saved. This, ladies and gentlemen, is your understanding of the new government: Nothing of what you promised, you've kept up to now! Their "coalition with the citizen", which is quoted so often, may be a coalition with the big citizens. – Nothing more to add to it! As here the word "proporz" is repeatedly taken into the mouth: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is easy to understand – you can see that – how the occupations are currently taking place in the individual resorts. It is often discussed as if certain processes were changed with a stroke. The new government partner is trying to accommodate his people everywhere as quickly as possible. In the same way, the new division of competence within the Federal Government, including the new department responsible for public administration, must also be seen. I also asked the Committee how it can be understood that, for example, in the BKA in the field of multiservices – no one in the public service can choose whether or not to do it – around 5 million schillings are saved, but at the same time rewards from around 5.6 million to 6 million schillings are reintroduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In this respect too, you can think of something: Those who are good, who do not talk back receive a reward; all those who do not have to be asked, but who have to perform the service, may then wait for months for their additional services. This problem exists in some areas – we will be discussing next week how many are waiting for their additional service remuneration. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's a rough assumption!]] I should also like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the administrative academies of all the esteemed institutions, which are extremely important for the education and training of public servants. I would also like to say from this point of view: If we confess to that, when we express the importance and necessity of this institution, then someone must also say how this Academy should maintain the same level with less money. – At least this is simply and completely impossible! There you have to act forward-looking and take other ways. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One could, ladies and gentlemen, with many examples continue this list for a long time. I just want to say more: There will be very many losers and very few winners at this budget. New strains for social Weaker is the only idea behind your budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9418	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9439	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies' lawyers! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The main and most important task of this federal government is, as we have already heard today, the renovation of the state budget. Both the Federal Chancellor and the Finance Minister have announced comprehensive and profound structural reforms. A structural reform which the economy has long wanted for many years and which this Federal Government will address in cooperation with the social partners is the reform of wage accounting and employee billing. All those colleagues who have to do with it – including Mr Böhacker – know how difficult the billing mode as a whole is. There are a number of provisions on taxation, the wage tax speaks, there are different provisions in social security law, and this makes the billing extremely difficult. There are different free borders, different allowances, different tax rates. If we were to simplify this, the employer, the employer, would save a substantial part of the administrative work and it would also mean more transparency for the employee in the study of his wages. But it is not only the billing that is very complicated, but also the audit procedure. The accounts relating to workers are first checked by the financial office by the payroll taxpayers. As a result, it will be reviewed by the so-called local health insurance body and, in connection with the local tax, by the local authority. We would like to see the billing mode simplified and the wage calculation checked only by one auditing body. In this respect, we have already made proposals many years ago, and the economy wants the audits to be carried out exclusively by financial officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Thank you. – We would save such important administrative work, especially in the case of health insurance. – So much for this concern. However, I also thought about what we could reform here in the House – also by encouraging our colleague Schieder and by a kind of self-reflection. I would have many proposals to rethink the instrument of parliamentary question. There are about 6 000 to 7 000 requests per year, in part they are 10 to 20 pages long, and now you imagine how complicated it is for officials in the individual ministries to answer these questions. In the light of the last questions, I have noticed a request from Mr Brosz from the Greens. It is extremely short, only one side long, and concerns the absence of Klubobmann Westenthaler on 26 March. Mr. Westenthaler attended a football match at the Praterstadion in May 2000 during the security debate. I would now like to allow myself, on the occasion of today's budget debate, to ask the President an oral question, so to speak, to draw attention to the five questions raised by Mr Brosz as guidance aid. Mr Brosz asked Mrs. Vice chancellor: "Why did you take Mr Westenthaler to the match at the National Council meeting?" I ask the President: Why have you allowed the clubmen of the two opposition parties to be partially absent today? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's liab!]] The second question raised by Mr Brosz was: "As a sports minister, are you of the opinion that Members should prefer the Praterstadion to Parliament?" I ask the President: As President of the National Council, do you think that the two clubmen have preferred Gusenbauer and Van der Bellen other dates of the budget debate? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Brosz's third question was: "Are you also of the opinion that the Westenthaler Member in Parliament is absolutely essential?" I ask the President: Are you also of the opinion, Mr President, that the two clubmen, Gusenbauer and Van der Bellen, are indispensable in Parliament? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: He will answer that with a yes!]] Brosz's fourth question was: "Did we win without Westenthaler?" - that's the match. I ask, Mr President: Would the SPÖ and the Greens have won today's budget debate with Gusenbauer and Van der Bellen? [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Brosz's fifth question was: "What can the national team do for this?" I'm asking: How does the absence of Gusenbauer and Van der Bellen affect the sanctions of the EU-14? I am not going to make this request in writing because I can give the answers to my questions myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9550	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9572	Mr President. My venerations Ladies on the government bank! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! First of all, a brief comment on the comments made by my predecessor. Mr President. I would like to add to the questions raised by my predecessor with regard to the two absent clubmen, Khol and Westerthal. [[Call to the liberals: Westenthaler is here!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (hand winking) Maier! Maier!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: (in the direction of Abg. Ing. Westenthaler) Mr Maier, here is Westenthaler!]] Another word to my previous speaker's address: Under the guise of the renovation of the state budget, colleague Frieser, the "little" people are pulled the money out of their pocket. A policy is made at the expense of the "small" people. I would like to make this clear on behalf of our group. It is claimed that one has to reorganise the government budget, in reality one does a redistribution: The big ones are favored, and the little ones are taken out of the bag. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Institutions are tasked with a parliamentary democracy which is indispensable. This includes the President of the Federal Republic of Germany as head of state. They deserve the respect of Austrian politicians. All the more incomprehensible to us and to the general public was the abuse, which at first did not dementate, then demented, now again confirmed by the clubman of the Freedom Party. Mr Westerthaler! You have here... [[Abg. May. Fillinger: Westenthaler!]] Mr. Weste n thaler! You have called here from this point on a de-escalation of the words. – I can tell you: Put yourself at your own door, Mr Westenthaler, because with this insult, the Austrian people, the Austrian democracy and the Supreme Institutions have been done extremely wrong! Show backbone and also confess to a slogan that should apply to every elected Member of this House: Mr. Hilmar Kabas, step back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker holds a leaflet on which the title reads: "SP threat with the weapons!"]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! State, parliamentarianism and new media are intertwined, because the state and the parliamentary representation function depend on the public – and the new media, in turn, form this public. It is clear that there are possibilities for the meaningful in-service of new media for the state and parliamentary representation. New information and communication technologies help to overcome representation problems. Technical and technological progress must therefore be made useful to policy. This applies to the Supreme Institutions to the same extent as to the individual Federal Ministries. – The offer of the Austrian Parliament is particularly worth mentioning in this context, while the offers of other upper organs are, so to speak, still in children's shoes. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! More than 1 million accesses were recorded on Parliament's homepage alone in March. Parliament is one of the drivers of a modern electronic service within the public service. This offer is constantly being expanded and is currently being evaluated. This offer benefits all political groups. That is why our thanks to Parliament's management, in particular the computer department under the direction of Hans Hopf. [[I would like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has also dealt with these new technologies. A computer and internet offensive e-Austria, an e-government, has been announced. Until 2004, most of the official routes should be handled online. – However, no statement was made about the financing of this offensive. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you promise people the blue from heaven, and your vice chancellor is unable to present precise financing concepts for this. One can only say: With regard to the new technologies you, the government, the time of it – and in the future the voters will also run away from it. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Hopefully not a "I love you" virus!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me focus on another aspect. – Since the in-force step of the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle, the Federal Chancellor has also been subject to the execution of European law. – The Federal Chancellor is not here now, unfortunately. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But he was here!]] – I would like to draw attention to a youth sin from him: It was he who did not implement the European Union's package travel directive, in particular Article 7, in 1994 as Minister of Economic Affairs under the pressure of the Chamber of Commerce – he is committed to the lobbyism of the Chamber of Commerce – with the result that Austria was sentenced by the European Court of Justice last year. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Go! Go!]] Overall, this misevaluation by the current German Chancellor has cost the Austrian taxpayers 30 million Schilling. This amount had to be paid by taxpayers to ensure that the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel had correctly transposed this Directive. There you have to ask yourself: What happens now where the Federal Chancellor is responsible? Didn't the bock be turned into a gardener? There are also other problems in this area, and I have already asked the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about these issues in the Committee on Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is the country most often accused by the European Union: 13 Infringement procedures, 95 preliminary rulings, and – and that is the essential, ladies and gentlemen, that is the essential thing! – most errors occur in the federal states. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: All within the last 100 days?]] Therefore, the question of the possibilities of the Federal Chancellor is justified in order to ensure that the federal states and other local authorities implement European legislation accordingly. Tirol is "leading", ladies and gentlemen, with a total of seven preliminary rulings before the European Court of Justice on the grounds of non-term and incorrect implementation. – We would already be interested in the amount of the representative costs of the Republic of Austria due to this incorrect implementation by other local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me finish. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: Enjoy! I'd love to!]] You – I mean the new Austrian Federal Government as well as this parliamentary majority – have not yet achieved your burden target, as we now know. Despite an increasing economy, they already link another package of savings and will continue to draw the money out of their hands to the "small" people. The Socialist Group will reject this tax package and all those who will follow it, and you cannot expect us to vote in favour of this budget. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9778	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9799	Ladies' lawyers! Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier brought a piece of art, namely that piece of art, to ask someone to resign, who is not a Member here in the National Council. He has asked Mr Hilmar Kabas to resign here. This is a contribution from involuntary comics! You've never seen that before! Apart from that, Mr Maier, as you know very well, also Mr Hilmar Kabas is concerned about the presumption of innocence. This statement is disputed – and until the evidence of the opposite, it is considered not to have fallen. But if you are so sensitive, Mr Maier, I ask you: How do you comment on the comments of your chairman in Vienna from 1st century onwards? May? It said, Mr. Häupl, that the government was "hunted out of office". What are you saying? Is that appropriate for you? Or what do you say about calling a whole party and its exponents a "mishapous suitcase"? There you are not sensitive! But when it comes to your own party, when it comes to your own interests, every expression of strength is right. When it comes to the interests of the rulers, put on a completely different scale. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, Mr Maier, I would like to say to you: We also appreciate the fact that you, and again and again, are talking about Mr Weste r thaler, as Mr Cap has already done several times in discussions in the ORF. What association is to be achieved with this, ladies and gentlemen, is clear to all. But this attitude, which is behind it, disqualifies itself. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. Fekter.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Mr. Hojac already?]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the chapter on the Supreme Institutions, and I am particularly concerned with the Constitutional Court. If you drive on the ring and you come from the Babenbergerstraße towards Parliament, you can see the outer castle gate, and there is a saying, which reads as follows: "Justitia regnorum fundamentalum". That means: Justice is the foundation of the rulers. If one now, so to speak, increases this republicanly, that means nothing but that the rule of law has to be fair as a whole. And for which court does this postulate, yes, this categoric imperative best apply? – This is the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court does not decide, for example, on Bassena disputes, does not decide on body injuries, but rather is the guardian of our federal constitution and decides on the constitutional impunity of laws, the lawlessness of regulations and, for example, elections. It shall act as the Special Administrative Court if it has been unlawfully decided. And he also decides on individual applications for the repeal of regulations and laws of directly affected citizens. Not to be forgotten is also the legislative or regulatory review that opens ordinary courts if they have doubts as to whether a law is unlawful or illegal. The importance of the competence of the Constitutional Court necessarily leads to a closer examination of the order process, as the ordering process is the most important at the Constitutional Court. How to become a Constitutional Judge? . We know from the general jurisdiction that the jurisdiction by personnel senate complements itself according to the principle of self-completion. It is different at the Constitutional Court. There are 14 judges of the Constitutional Court. All are appointed by the Federal President: eight on a proposal from the Federal Government and three on a proposal from the National Council and the Federal Council. I had the honour of being present in the National Council several times in the framework of an application procedure for the corresponding hearings, and I could not defend the impression that not the one who presented himself best there became a constitutional judge, but that it had already been predetermined who should become a new constitutional judge. Ladies and gentlemen! We should think about this ordering process. We should also think about the so-called disting opinion. As long as the Constitutional Court is not prepared to deal with it on its own, we should take this "disstincting opinion" – in the sense of what the President of the Swiss Court of Justice said: individually in the decision-making process, but then in the representation of the judgment. The Constitutional Court is very grateful to its courage, which it has repeatedly found, for example on the issue of family taxation or on the decision on Telekom control. The Constitutional Court has now also indicated that it will no longer recognise the many collegial authorities as their own administrative units with judicial appeal, because there is a reduction in the administrative train. We're going to do this with withdrawal. The Constitutional Court has also said that it could expect a total change in the Constitution, which requires a referendum, when the federal constitution has been amended in a number of cases by Parliament – which Parliament is constantly empowered to do. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say a special thank you, no less than the President of the Constitutional Court Ludwig Adamovich. Dr. Adamovich really understood the reputation of the Republic of Austria abroad as a blinding example of the sanctions of the EU-14 against Austria. I can read to you from an APA message: "The Lisbon Declaration, with which the 14 EU partners of Austria have decided to freeze bilateral relations after the free government participation, is a legislative act rather than simply a political declaration." – That is, Dr. Adamovich said abroad that this act would be contested. He also spoke in the Committee on EU Affairs before the French Senate. I quote: "In his speech to the Senate, Adamovich stated that the FPÖ was being held on the scale of political ethics. A comparison with Hitler is completely absurd. There is no call for violence, nor does it exist." "Rassist statements" – and now please be careful!, and today again the chairman of the Socialist Group, Mr. Gusenbauer, spoke of FPÖ as a "racist" party – "are not known to me," said Mr. Adamovich, the chief guardian of our federal constitution, abroad, at the Senate in France. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is a subjective perception, not a legal determination!]] That's what he said about the FPÖ. "Haider himself is extremely careful," Adamovich says. Mr Adamovich also said: "The often somewhat rough language of Haider conceals a positive aspect that should not be overlooked." Adamovich stressed that the Carinthian head of state had explicitly distanced himself from the German language and in this case was credible. And Adamovich concludes with the words: "I therefore believe that the involvement of the FPÖ in government responsibility is appropriate to promote a sense of responsibility towards polemics and democracy. I think that the idea of having to deal with a big breach of justice is absurd." - Quote. This does not say the FPÖ, but this says the chief guardian of our federal constitution, the very valued Professor Ludwig Adamovich in your ranks. [[towards SPÖ looking]]
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9872	Mrs Volksanwälter Korosec. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9894	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Dr. Herbs, tell us that it is really a statement of what you have said here, not only on behalf of us three current lawyers, but also on behalf of all the lawyers who have acted objectively in our country for 23 years. I have to tell you: The public in particular appreciates that their lawyers are acting objectively at the public prosecutor's office. Your submission; Dr. Herbs, go completely empty. During the 23-year activity of the People's Procuratorate there were several governments in Austria, but never before was a representative here in the House mentioned somewhere that the People's Procuratorate would be party-political. – I say to you: We are really outraged by this statement you have made here today, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank those colleagues, primarily Mr Donabauer, who have also put forward proposals to strengthen the public prosecutorry. Three areas were addressed: Firstly, this is also provided for in the democratic package: an initiative right for the People's Procuratorate if it has proposals for legislative changes. I think this is very important, not for us lawyers, but for the citizens of our country, and I would be very pleased if the proposal 98/A on the law-making law were passed by the House. The second area concerns the allocations. – It is very distributed, not privatized. Everything that is privatized cannot - we do not need to discuss this - be subject to the control of the Public Prosecutor's Office. But when it comes to distributed areas, such as the Federal Forest, the area of Wiener Stadtwerke, the areas tram, Post, Bahn, Bundestheater, areas which are still 100 percent in state ownership, we think that the public prosecutorship should, as before, examine. How do you explain to a citizen who, for example, has problems with the Vienna transport companies that this is now something private, although it is in the state's 100% possession and we citizens are the owners? . We therefore call for equality with the Court of Auditors that wherever more than 50 percent of the stock, property or equity is in public hands, the public prosecutors are also given the opportunity to examine. The third point that you, Dr. Kräub, have also raised concerns the judicial administration, the whole area of justice. It is also known that since 1977 the Public Prosecutor's Office has been able to examine the judicial administration and the prosecutor's office – and it does so. What is now proposed in the democratic package would be a slight strengthening of our capacity to test, and that, if it appears necessary, we can make a deadline application to the Court of Justice for the citizen. As a rule, or in most cases, the request to the Minister of Justice or to the President of the Courts of Justice for an opinion on why there is a delay in the proceedings is already being made. That is why the public debate that has taken place in recent weeks has surprised me very much, especially because it has been so violently conducted. This shows me, however, how important and necessary improvements are in this area. One thing cannot be discussed away: If there are problems of jurisdiction in the public prosecutor's office at every speech day and every day in the post office, then there is a need for action. We talked to the Minister of Justice about this. A working group has now been set up to draw up meaningful proposals. We should be right, for one thing is certain: Procedures need to be faster, faster and, above all, more citizens-friendly. I can, I want, I can and will not close eyes, mouths and ears when people come to us with their problems and tell us them, because it must be the goal of all that people are more humanized – and not that they are more nationalized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Volksanwälte and her employees are happy to make their contribution and, as I mean, they are also very committed to doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9972	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e9996	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Volksanwalt, Korosec, said that I had assumed that she would act party-politically. That's to be read. – That does not correspond to the facts! I have only – and that is right – revealed the intentions of Mr. Khol and Westenthal with the People's Procuratorate, and these are clearly heading towards a politicization of the People's Procuratorate. They are planning a government struggle for legislative initiatives. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10027	Before I speak to Mrs Magistrate. Plank has the floor, I would like to say that I now have the minutes on Mr Gusenbauer's speech. He has literally carried out: "In the European Union, there are many who are willing to think about how to get out of this situation, because the existence of third-party, partial racist parties is not a special phenomenon of the FPÖ, such parties exist also in other countries of Europe." In this way, it seems to me that the FPÖ is a partly racist party to have been raised by Mr Gusenbauer. This does not only justify a call for order for me, but I would say that we all have a commitment to each other, because if we in this House make a slight accusation of this kind, then we must not be surprised if other countries join such accusations when personalities from other countries who do not have the opportunity to examine the truth content of such a accusation. I beg you to pay close attention to the fact that such a thing does not happen again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I now ask Mrs Mag. Plank for their explanations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10066	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in the hall! On your last statement, on the quotation of part of the Minutes on the statements made by Mr Gusenbauer today, I would like to make a comment, Mr President: Whoever operates election advertising not only by pointing at people with his finger, but by addressing individual groups completely deciduously, outlining, suspecting and condemning them on a flat-rate basis, must not be surprised at this accusation, that he is considered to be hostile and racist. It is a fact and to read in many pamphlets for choice. [[Contradict with the liberals.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also have the opportunity to refer to other things, which have been said several times today by this speaker's desk. Since we are in a budget general debate, key spokespersons of the government parties have also spoken. And the impression arises again and again, as if one could wash out here at the former Minister of Finance Edlinger and could give him ear figs for something afterwards. [[Abg. Wattaul: Don't "put" down!]] They're cleaning up. I therefore intend to read a quote from Mr. Klobobmann's Khol here – literally –: "I would like to thank Rudi Edlinger, the Federal Minister for Finance, very much for having done a rational and comprehensible planning process for this budget with Mr Hannes Farnleitner." Dr. Khol said this on the occasion of a debate on 15. April 1998 here in this hall. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this cannot be considered proof that this party was also involved in government responsibility, what if these words no longer count and no longer apply? I wonder, Where has ÖVP been in the last 13 years? How did she get into government work, into government responsibility? And pretty slowly I also wonder: How does she get involved now? Will she not have known anything about what she was doing to the Austrians later on? – This question is in space. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my contribution to the debate, I would like to focus on one of the upper institutions with the Court of Auditors. I would particularly like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your work and would also like to thank you on behalf of your staff. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have already had opportunity in the Committee in a very impressive way to see how important this instrument of the Court of Auditors is for the political landscape and for political work in Austria. I would also like to draw attention to the responsibilities you take over under the INTOSAI organisation, and also to what you do in your cooperation with the European Court of Auditors, because it shows that joint and synergies can be used. I thank you for this willingness and openness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The importance of your work was clearly seen in the Perception Report on Consolidation Packages from 1996 to 1998. Especially two ministries were negatively observed at the time, namely the Federal Ministry of Education and the Federal Ministry of State Defense. You have proved very strongly that there is no long-term investment plan in the area of national defence, and I believe that such information is now offering a lot of brilliance, including for the future, on the occasion of the new budget manuscript, which can be read out in the 2000 budget: Stresses without social balance, budget without social justice, taking the poor and giving to the rich. [[Abg. Böhacker: Congratulations!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Right, however, these measures do not deserve applause, but we must point this out; that is our duty. From this point of view, I also see the suggestions made by the Court of Auditors in relation to a long-term investment plan for an undertaking called the Federal Army, which is still highly indebted. This issue has already proved to be a permanent source of fire in the Court of Auditors. Years in advance, the Austrian Federal Army is burdened and indebted, and now new purchases are under way. What does that mean for the budget? What does this mean for the Austrians in the future? Who will pay for the new purchases? – All commuters? All the currents? All women? All civil servants? What does that mean when the government says: We're saving? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the Committee on Budgets, has clearly shown that he is not particularly confident that something will change in this direction. I allow myself to quote a statement: It would be hoped that activities in this essential area will finally be put in place. – That, I mean, would really be hopeful. The Court of Auditors has proved that it has included in its work suggestions that it has been advocating and making many years of claims, such as the education of experts. However, some of the budget items in the distribution are not quite clear and not really comprehensible, because they are not listed in detail, especially in the drawing up of experts. What seems to me, however, is that this is also to be said for the 2000 budget. We discussed an example here in the last session, where the civil service sector has been concerned and where we have noticed that far-high revenue ratios are expected and that this budget is a beautiful budget. The same danger is now again, because the aim should be to achieve the Maastricht criteria. It is more than questionable, however, whether the Maastricht criteria can be achieved through this budget approach and without structural reforms. This approach clearly assumes that countries will be able to meet their target of 0.5 percent in surplus. However, the signals from the countries are not particularly positive in this respect, and it seems to be too optimistic. All the more questionable will be the achievement of this objective, as many additional billions will still be missing from the communities due to the poor and seasoned rules on the solution of drinking tax. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: A billion, not many!]] And what comes in here, the "little" man and the "little" woman you're so happy to talk about. This is a budgetary policy that operates according to the principle of hope and not with clear facts and clear figures. The budget presented here is not on a European course – and it is not on the Red-White-Red course either. I would like to say that to Mr Klubobmann Khol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Red and white are all citizens in Austria. In this case, however, the weaker ones pay disproportionately much. Finally, I would like to make an appeal to the President of the Court of Auditors: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, look at this government just as well as the previous one, and also take into account the aspect of social security, because that must be the objective of fair policy, but not the praise of a powerful, capable elbow society that speaks this present government! Against taxes yes, but not on the back socially weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10183	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please. I would like to ask Mrs Plank to come to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10218	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Appreciate People's Lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's budget debate is characterised by an almost prayed-like repetition of false arguments by the opposition parties. I would now like this to be done on the basis of the argument that Mrs Mag. Plank brought it, demonstration it. For example, she held that the less income from the drinking tax that the communities had went to the expense of the "small" people. That is, in return, she believes that if you cancel the drink tax in the old form, it would be in favor of the "small" people. – Please, I have hardly heard a bigger mistake from this point on. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: What argument was wrong, please?]] Consider the following: The little one. Man pays for a half Beer exactly the same as the "great" man. This is exactly what Mr Kogler has brought under the term "regressive distribution effect". The argument goes cross and across with the politicians of the opposition parties. But I can tell you one thing: You can prove yourself when it comes to discussing the graduated population key in the course of the financial compensation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Bravo!]] There are the greatest injustices there, ladies and gentlemen. How should we please our citizens up to land, state from land, that, for example, a citizen of Freistadt is a single-third worth and the citizen of Vienna is worth two thirds? Please, this is about regressive distribution effect, and then you can prove how serious it is to you here with your demands. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are the greatest social injustices, ladies and gentlemen. Do you know what the result is? – It is deducted from rurally weak regions and transferred to the strong centres. This means that women in rurally weak regions are allowed to bring children to the world, to raise them, to train them, but, unfortunately, because of this injustice of the financial balance, they cannot provide a home anymore, because there is no job at all! Dear Social Democrats! Then you will be able to prove yourselves. We will all discuss this seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Deputies of herbs! I think that there is hardly any other instrument that actually has the ear as intense with the citizen as the People's Procuratorate. That is why we believe that the People's Procuratorate also needs appropriate support from us. This support must not only be exhausted in any verbal confessions, but we must also give this support to the public prosecutor's office by giving it legislative initiative. Who could better recognize than the People's Procuratorate because, so to speak, always at the pulse of the population, where long lasting need for change has actually been given? I therefore believe that the public prosecutor's wish for a thorough debate should be met. As far as the debate is concerned, it cannot yet be held that it would then be a "government force" for legislative initiatives, because from my experience as mayor, I know that the citizens consider the public prosecutorship to be an objective body, and thank God also the experience that it is actually. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least: Mr Gusenbauer's speech deeply shaken me. He has made the impression out here that Austria is going to happen daily, and he has said, among other things, that the 14 EU countries judge Austria according to what happens every day in Austria. [[Abg. Edler: Is everything all right?]] On the contrary, Mr Edler: What happens every day in Austria? Are Austria refusing to participate in the government of significant foreign workers through the participation of FPÖ, or are we refusing foreign families to build an existence in Austria? Were asylum homes lit in Austria? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You know exactly what it's all about!]] Dear colleague! You always say I know exactly what it's all about. - I don't know! I do not feel guilty of any crime alone because there is a legally elected government in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Please take note of this! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: No, we don't notice that!]] In my opinion, it would be time for the Social Democrats to resort to the defence of Austria. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Say all this to your coalition partner!]] Finally, I would also like to say: I am deeply concerned when Professor Van der Bellen and Mr Gusenbauer travel abroad. I would rather see them sitting here in Parliament, because then I know with great certainty that the next day the foreign press won't make any reservations against Austria again.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10354	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10375	Mr Mühlbachler! Your comments, which you have just made from this speaker's point of view, have already been added that the two politicians of this House mentioned above are very likely to try to increase Austria's reputation at home and abroad. This is contrary to what the government groups are always telling us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Unfortunately, the President of the Court of Auditors is not here at the moment. At the beginning of my speech, I referred to the statements made by Mr Mühlbachler and I now begin my actual speech with the official introduction, as is the courtesy of the House. I would also like to refer to Mr Donabauer's statement, which has confirmed here that the previous Federal Government has not broken the country. Mr Donabauer, you are one of the few – unfortunately he is not here now, but perhaps he can be directed by the colleagues of the ÖVP – who have not forgotten that the ÖVP has had government responsibility over the past 13 years and was also responsible for the welfare in our country. The Federal Government of the past 13 years has handed over the country in prosperity, social peace and in recognition all over the world. In my opinion, this Federal Government should also be thanked for this. It should not be forgotten that this has happened. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Nevertheless, the Edlinger did not tell the truth!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, this has changed substantially, Mr Khol. During this general debate on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2000, we will unfortunately have to hear about the frequent attack of this blue-black unit government on the wallets of the "small" people, of a wave of burden that hits the little ones. Ladies and gentlemen! Note The following is the title of today's edition of the "Tyrol Newspaper": "Tickets for Pendlers from 1. June more expensive"! – A measure that reaffirms what it is all about today: It is against the workers who do not deserve much anyway, these are the commuters. In contrast, Minister Molterer's farmers in agriculture are promised to be allowed to drive with diesel that is 3 s cheaper or to refuel fuel oil. Ladies and gentlemen! You do the opposite of what you promised: The taxpayers, the workers are taxed. With 1. They'll feel it on June. – Today's edition of the "Tyrol Newspaper". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is gratifying to be able to report something positive here as a member of the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I am referring specifically to the Court of Auditors' reports, which have been very precise and which give our Members a very comprehensive overview of the Court of Auditors' activities and the results of the Court of Auditors' examinations of various institutions and public bodies. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, unfortunately, is not here, but like my colleague, Mr Plank, I should also like to thank him from this point of view very much for this work and especially for the always correct answers to questions from the Court of Auditors. This is not, of course, the correct nature of the Court of Auditors and, in particular, of its President. The Court of Auditors reports on the correct functioning of public institutions, but also on the inconsistencies in need of information, such as the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors at Alpen Strasse AG, which should not fall home after a debate here in the Hohe Haus der Vergessenheit. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Freeman! You certainly remember: You have prevented the inconsistencies of Alpen Straßen AG from correcting the inconsistencies here in the Hohe Haus with combined forces. They recall the shortcomings that have been identified by the Court of Auditors and which I have reported here in the House, such as shortcomings in basic solutions, defects in the exploitation of building materials, double settlements of services, compensation of undisputed difficulties, costs of some 35 million schillings per year by additional necessary rehabilitation measures, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! You certainly remember: They have prevented any remaining information on these Court of Auditors' findings. And remember the observed cracks in the concrete vault of the just finished pianist tunnel, which were due to a significant deviation of the calculation assumptions from the actual load. The cost of urgent action is also millions of euros and means a significant reduction in the value of the construction project. Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals and the ÖVP! Imagine that this tunnel would have been released for traffic in front of the sighting of these cracks! In addition to the financial burdens that have occurred, would not people also have been at great risk? [[Abg. Wattaul: Which minister was in charge? Wasn't it Minister One?]] Remember: They have jointly prevented the remaining information on these Court of Auditors. Remember also the intelligible non-presence of the members of the Supervisory Board sent by the Federal Government at ASAG meetings! The Court of Auditors has also noted that this means limiting the control of the owner. Especially the ÖVP will have been remembered by Supervisory Board member Dr. Michael Sachs, who, as confirmed by the Court of Auditors, took part in the Annual General Meeting only once, especially because of the cross-border links of Dr. Michael Sachs as a former Supervisory Board member of ASAG and Managing Director of the ÖVP-EDV-Company Dico-Soft with company location in ÖVP-Zentrale Vienna. Remember the still unexplained links between the ÖVP company Dico-Soft and the German company Dico-Soft, which was at the heart of the German fund affair around Alt-Bundeskanzler Kohl! It has still not been clarified what the name "Schüssel" means, which is located three times in the notebook of the gun dealer, who is also involved in this causa. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You might have proved it to be serious with an honest reconnaissance. They would have been able to take up the proof of truth with the agreement of the setting up of an investigative committee. But You remember: They have jointly prevented the Enlightenment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Thin applause on this topic!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the electorate, especially the small and weak of society, would see the policy of the blue-black government as a burden and would support a "population of the people", says new elections, in order to clean up the burdens created by this federal government in the shortest time. As the social conscience of Austrian politics, we Socialists are ready for change at any time. We stand for an honest clarification and preparation of inadequacy. – The liberals prove daily that they are breaking their election promises at the price of a government participation, without skrupel. Government motto: As promised, so broken. Ladies and gentlemen! To this end, it is clear that: Social Democrats keep what they promise! [[Abg. Wattaul: Indebtedness!]] Social Democrats are the lawyers of the people who do not have a lobby behind them! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10495	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to remind you of an extract from the Stenographical Protocol. In the course of a debate, Mrs. Dr. Fekter called for the word "state traitor". There is no doubt that this is justifying a call for order, Mrs Deputies. I ask everyone, and all the Members of all political groups, not only to be moderate, but, as President Fischer has already said today, to show particular moderation on the first day of a budget debate. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hartinger – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10522	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! Mr Reheis, how did you mean that the Social Democrats kept everything they promised? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: The only thing you really can do is make debt. You can't do that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Which country do you live in?]] I don't know where you live – I live in Austria anyway. The issue I would like to talk about is the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is good, but as we all know, control is better. Control and examination of various institutions, which is and was never an annoying evil for us Freeman, is not a shock and not a mere detection of mistakes, but must and should be used above all as an opportunity for further development or for improvement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since I myself was an internal auditor, I know what challenges this task presents to someone. Above all, it is hoped that, as a tester, the identified weaknesses will be taken as a reason to make a change. Therefore, I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors, who is unfortunately not here now, and also all the auditors and auditors, and I may also allow myself to make an appeal to you, namely: Steter drop hollows the stone! Please do not give up because some things have not been improved in the past. This will now be a lasting change by this government. We will record and implement your recommendations. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, there are laws on the basis of examinations whose cost-benefit ratio is much to be questioned according to the first experience. I am now referring to the income report under the Pay Restriction Act. Disclosure of salaries under the Reference Act is the Court's most important and elaborate examination. All beneficiaries of public income exceeding 80 000 S per month must be reported and published in a report by the end of this year. Approximately 10,000 such notifications would have been made by the 31st century. I'm supposed to go in on March. On the 14th day of the year. However, only 2 100 out of 5 000 lawyers had made this report on April. According to law, the Court of Auditors must draw up a report with the names and incomes of top officials and managers in the area of state. If the obligation to communicate is not complied with, the Court of Auditors shall have an understanding of the relevant documents or shall draw up a report thereof. That is, the auditors have to get the missing data themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that the public institutions do not provide any information to the Court of Auditors, although they would be obliged to do so by law. From my point of view, why these institutions, such as ORF, Pension Insurance, Social Insurance and Cetera, do not provide or supply incomplete data: You want to hide things, I say, because otherwise you might find out what privileges and rewards there are, especially in the SPÖ-dominated areas. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You really beat everything!]] Mrs Colleague, you are welcome to speak later. Unfortunately, the costs incurred by the Court of Auditors for the preparation of this not-to-speak report go to the millions and go to the expense of other, certainly more efficient tests that would be necessary. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They must imagine that a staff of between 10 and 15 persons had to be set up for the production of income reports. It had to be employed by temporary workers. With the help of students, a hotline had to be set up to clarify questions and thousands of warning letters had to be written because the reports were incomplete because they were anonymous or not at all available. Individual personnel had to be provided to process the data et cetera. Millions of schillings have been spent on drawing up a report, a report that we liberals have already rejected, because it mis binds the Court of Auditors' resources in this form. The Court of Auditors is our most important control body – we all agree – and should not, as it happens in this case, be misused as a "data cemetery".
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10607	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10629	Mr President. High house! Just a brief comment on the controversy about the speech of our party chairman and clubman Gusenbauer. I would like to add something to his comment "part-racial" and the reaction of President Dr. Fassleven to it. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where is Gusenbauer on the road now?]] Hilmar Kabas called in the Vienna election campaign on behalf of the FPÖ "Close with alienation!" You'll still be used to it. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You said, "The boat is full!" That was your election fight!]] If we look up in the book by Karl-Heinz Brackmann and Renate Birkenhauer "NS-German – "of course" terms and keywords from the time of National Socialism", we find on page 185 the word "external" and that means "too strong intrusion of non-German or foreign to the German people". [[Abg. Young: This is a term of Swiss foreign law!]] This is a scientifically proven definition, developed and established by historians, and therefore the use of the word "abroadment" is the use of a term from the Nazi era. And you must note that Mr Hilmar Kabas did this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: "The boat is full!", you said!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] From your coalition partner, the ÖVP – I would like to add that – a dissociating, critical remark would be necessary. At that time, as a political party, you were not at all existent, nor were the Social Democrats in the time of the National Socialist dictatorship. – I think that this intrusion by the cracks and holes of such terms requires a clear answer from all democrats. That is why, I think, it was quite good what Mr Gusenbauer said about this. And "part-racist" is right, because Hilmar Kabas is part of the ÖVP – pardon: the FPÖ! – in an election campaign used the word "exaggeration". [[Objection to the ÖVP]] This is from the time of National Socialism and therefore a racist concept. That is why this concept is correct, and therefore I do not understand the call for order, President Dr. Fassl evening last night. I would like to make that very clear. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: Is Swiss Foreign Law racist or National Socialist?]] Mr Morak, State Secretary, has now taken place here on the government bank. Perhaps you can say something about this controversy in one of the opinions. – Mr State Secretary, it will eventually become too much if you stay away from the past. I would just like to point out the following: You too have spoken here and have found positive words about the reports of the State Secretariat and the Art Section; I can well remember them; They have also found positive words. As long as one is in a coalition, one cannot comment on the work on the example of the reports more positively – but if one is no longer with the Social Democrats in a coalition and even in the government, one can create here and make the past responsible for everything. I would ask you to move away from this line, since I think that this will hardly do anything for the joint work in your situation. But you, Mr Morak, have already begun to apologise for your work. This happened in a discussion and was found again in a press release. Then you spoke of a "truth of the fictitious", i.e. you could also quote Max Weber about the long "driving hard boards". One could even say that it all takes too long and it all has far too little change. It doesn't have to be! If you really want to set in motion a cultural revolution – which you seem to suggest if you want to overcome this "truth of the fictitious" – then we can start with this budget or the next one. It is written nowhere that you need to help Minister of Finance Grasser, so to speak. You, Mr. State Secretary Morak, can also present yourself as representatives of the artists, the arts, the culture by looking for confrontation with the Minister of Finance – and not only explain that these are difficult times now, and at all the last 30 years would have been terrible. By the way, most of the money for art and culture has been spent in the time when we were together by SPÖ and ÖVP in a coalition; you should always notice this with self-critically. If the art budget is not reduced by 4.5, but is actually reduced by about 11 percent, you could, for example, fight together with us for at least stabilizing the budget success of 1999, and together with us trying to achieve that it does not result in cuts, but that you stay there. Or you could say: If film is already a focus, then instead of going down from 170 to 105 million schilling, we could revitalize the model of special funding and support the focus film again and stay at 170 million schilling. Their demand for participation models – that private capital be attracted to the arrival of risk capital – has a weakness. The idea may be thoughtful, just: I do not see risk capital coming, I do not see the private people who now suddenly want to invest in the Austrian film – at least to a relevant extent – and therefore one should not easily represent this "less-state-more-private" variant at the expense of the Austrian film. – In this area too, it would be good to say resistance to the savings plans of the Minister of Finance. The topic of artist social insurance has also been tailored by you. And to that I say: It would be very slow to present a draft that goes beyond the Wittmann draft – it is the new government's claim to make everything more precise, better, more economical, more efficient – at the same time. We are of course happy to be available as a interlocutor. If you want to increase the amount of art promotion, for example, you could think about whether you should not use these incomes for artist social insurance. But I would also appeal to you, Mr. State Secretary Morak, – even if your colleague Gehrer is actually responsible for it – to engage in the case of "Museum quarter" and how to deal with Public Netbase and all the others there, because if you do not, your coordination competence is a myth, then your opinion counts in the teaching ministry "elf" – and that is known to be null at Tarock. And that's why I think you should really get involved here, critically. Theater in Josefstadt, Konzerthaus: My God, you can also think about other sources of funding – that doesn't have to be from the art budget. It should be considered that this may also be the case for special financing: Minister of Finance Grasser should let something jump and consider whether he can save something elsewhere. Perhaps you can also take part in private activities if there is a real urge for private people to become more involved and organise themselves. They said there were too many investments in "big old steamers"; I will remember this sentence, Secretary of State. What about you under the name "old steamers"? The Opera? So that's where I have to say: Even the opera is very, very modern. – The Burgtheater? – The Burgtheater, in which Jelinek, where Thomas Bernhard was listed, is supposed to be an "old steamer"? Here you go. – I know an "old steamer" you meant: The Salzburg Festival! That was criticism of the support, investments for the Salzburg Festival! Is that really the case? Was that your "old steamer"? – I guess that must have been so. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Peter Stein will be very happy about this! You have to say that to Peter Stein!]] In order to close the theatre Rabenhof – now obviously threatens to begin theater closures – and for critical discussion with the chairman of the Cultural Committee Povysil, who essentially translated the Haider-Spruch: You don't bite the hand that feeds you. And since she has not distanced herself from this saying, we have not chosen her as Chairman of the Committee on Culture, because this has ultimately expressed her entire attitude towards artists. On your proposal to distribute income for three years and to standardize operating expenditure. . We have had a proposal with the half-tax rate, which would have brought more, but which has been smeared off by your financial committee group. Unfortunately! Summa summarum: I mean, your current balance is fair. You can do it – still! – to the Minister for Finance, only in the next few years it is supposed to be even harder. I must therefore ask you, Secretary of State Morak, to take up the conflict and confrontation in the sense of Austrian culture and the artists with the Minister of Finance and with other forces in the government, so that you do not get under the wheels – and ultimately also the arts and culture sector. And that's exactly what threatens, that's what you can finally prove; and that's exactly what you're beginning to point out now, by apologizingly saying: It's the "truth of the fictitious." There will be a savings budget for several years – I feel it already – and therefore, dear artists and dear Austrian cultural interests, I am already beginning to apologize. But I'll tell you the same thing: Actually, I'm not guilty, but it's an anonymous. It is anonymous, it is the "truth of the Factic", says State Secretary Morak. You can't put us to sleep with this, but you'll only make us so much more brave to deal critically with your policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10776	Since the Stenographical Protocol is now in place, I am giving to Mr Haigermoser for the expression "You are a senior negotiator!", addressed to the address of a member of this House, a call for order. The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. The speaking time is set at 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10803	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Yes, Mr Cap, it's about the balance sheet. What balance sheet? – When we talk about the work of Secretary of State Morak, we talk about Wittmann’s balance sheet, and he doesn’t have it easy, because: Morak has begun with a nice number of uncovered checks, about commitments of more than 620 million schillings that were not covered. These were the starting conditions under which Secretary of State Morak began. That's not an easy task, but he'll master it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This balance sheet also raises the question: What happened to the 30 million schillings dedicated to the reconstruction of the Josefstadt Theatre? – They are sent to the general budget. – Accounting is required, later also evaluation. I come to a project that has been under discussion lately, that is the women's project Kosmos. Hiebei's balance sheet looks such that in the last few days Wittmann's contract has been signed, in which some strict requirements have been formulated. For me, we live in a rule of law and are therefore the fulfilment of the conditions for further disbursement. I know it was not easy for the Kosmos project and its operators from the beginning, but if we assess the position of the current State Secretary, fairness has to be exercised on the basis of the funding agreement. And so with all clarity and commitment, I reject Marlene Streeruwitz's approach, which says that women would be downgraded to bitters. – With this she discriminates against all promoters – and that is not all right! Another point: The future of modern art is at risk – or similarly, the Public Netbase, Depot or Base projects are saying goodbye from the "Museumsquartier". So: End of the future, end of modern art. – It must be borne in mind that the latter are essentially spin-offs of the art curators, i.e. not enough projects of the "Museum quarter" – I have considered the old "Museum quarter" construction law, which is very precise in terms of the principles and objectives. I also believe that the Supervisory Board and the Installation Society have acted very precisely in accordance with this original law. And I can say to Dietmar Steiner from the Architecture Centre: The "Museum quarter" has a concept, not a concept – the Museum of Modern Art, the Museum Leopold, the Kunsthalle, the Architektur-Zentrum, the Kindermuseum ZOOM, and so on, other providers who are already established or still looking for and present the modern, contemporary art manifestations can be explored. A proof of how Thomas Trenkler demands that the depot continue – well, I can't imagine that. What is the basis for the evidence? The fact that good work is being done in the mediation of art is not disputed with this, but I wonder: Why should there be Public Netbase in the Museum Square? An honest question: What is behind this often mysterious concept? – A network operation, a creative software company! Why does this have to be housed in the "Museum Square"? The asset of these modern media is precisely that they are independent of the location that you can have access to the modern media, to their products from all over the world. This office may also be located in Toronto or in Aspang or elsewhere. Why so much money that has to be paid for such a situation in Vienna in the "Museum quarter"? The same applies to the two other projects base wien and depot. Ladies and gentlemen! Is the idea of evaluation already a threat to these companies? - Apparently. I think that the current head of the "Museumquartier", Wolfgang Waldner, is doing his work in the best possible way, meets the legal requirements and follows current management principles. What else is going to happen there? The dispute about a central bookstore and its size – yes, my God, that should not endanger the future of the "Museum quarter"! Here I hold it with Dietmar Steiner, who said that some commercial and budgetary individual interests would pursue there, seasoned with interesting masculinity rituals. This is what the architect Dietmar Steiner says, even users in the "Museum quarter". I already think of one who enjoys these masculinity rituals very much: Gerald Matt in an unusual dual function: in the Supervisory Board for the City of Vienna and at the same time Director of the Kunsthalle. So a sense of political incompatibility this man should not really have. I come to a culturally interesting statement. Doris Knecht writes in a weekly magazine: "better withdrawal than reduction". This view can be seen. How does she get to it? It notes that – and this is interesting – in times of SPÖ government art, as it says, has been tragically neglected, but, obviously, the artists are meant to be, at least in a similar direction at this time. I mean, it's a huge collection to let artists and artists look toward SPÖ, according to the motto: The art is left. This is an old shimar, from which we have to say goodbye, dear lady servant. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The author then also explains what solution there is. It's interesting and doesn't sound "left" at all. She says that the way out lies in the fact that the art must become more commercial; all O-Ton Doris servant. She has to look around alternatives, and at another point in the magazine, she writes that the abolition of the drinking tax is an essential root of the evil. – So: Because there is no more beer tax, there is no art promotion. I am glad that State Secretary Morak will succeed in achieving 4.5 percent reduction in the field of public or state art promotion – not with the Edlingers 20 percent! At this point it must be said that this would have been the alternative. It seems interesting that, for example, the curator Zinggl is awaiting with a natural legal basis for public art promotion. I share his view that it must be a concern for the modern state, unlike for Doris servant, to promote art. However: The award must be transparent and be made in accordance with comprehensible standards. This means that not all projects that have been established for a long time should be excluded from competition with others. How did the new ones get to have it ever harder than they had already established anyway? Evaluation therefore applies to all, including art curators. After all, the Federal Curators have spent 180 million schillings on this project in recent years. I recall that the SPÖ is very much in favour of evaluation elsewhere and that it wants to reveal the results of this evaluation absolutely and consistently, in the field of science. So, absolute disclosure, please also in art. And so-called critical projects can also be evaluated, because there are criteria here too. The former Minister of Science will certainly agree with me. I am confident that Franz Morak will succeed in making the awards more transparent, modern and therefore more democratic, and that the feudal reign of art, which has so far ruled in the award of art, will end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10896	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e10918	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would now like to focus very briefly on the dispute between President Fassleven and our chairman. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Gusenbauer is still not there!]] How would it be? You mean someone who calls the employment policy of the "Third Reich" "ordinary" and is the chairman of a party in that country? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: War!]] Part of this employment policy was that people who had been imprisoned in concentration camps for racist reasons had to do forced labour, for racial reasons, forced labour, which often led to death. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: For racial reasons not for "racist" reasons!]] – I wonder how you would call it something like that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] To the address of the ÖVP: In all your statements it sounds that you have clearly signed out in the last 13 years; They were not present, have not taken a decision, have never visited the Council of Ministers. Do you know that all Council of Ministers decisions are taken unanimously that any schilling that has been issued over the past 13 years has been issued with your consent?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Do you know that each single schilling was given with your consent, each investment was made with your consent?- Oh, my God! But now you are amazed by the ÖVP that this money has been spent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm asking: How do you keep it with honesty in politics? What do you want to say? – That you have had no idea for 13 years, unsuspectingly gone through the world without any perception of the funds spent in the budgets? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can't sell all this seriously here to the House! – I would advise you: Look You're going to take the Council of Ministers decisions, and you're going to think that you too decided by the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would now like to focus on my main subject, namely art, and first of all on these 620 million schillings, which are advocating in the debate. – These were commitments made under the premise that the future government agrees with these commitments. There is a letter from Minister of Finance Edlinger that if he had something to say in the future, he would intend to do so; but he does not want to prejudge the future government. That is, it is not a commitment, but it has been an in-depth position if this case were to occur. This was at least 450 million schilling. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say to you: It is almost a presumptuous to try to finance the large Brocken Konzerthaus and Theater in Josefstadt, because you have to take this out of the operating area. Therefore, it was necessary to negotiate with the Minister of Finance that there should be an additional funding for these large chunks because this would not be eligible for funding from the current budget. We would not have received co-financing if I had not been promised an additional sum. So it would have been your job, Mr President-in-Office Morak, to make this up with the current Minister for Finance. But, unfortunately, during these negotiations, you were severely pulled over the table. You now have this in the current budget – and thus the reduction of your budget is not 4.5 percent, but you have to add to it the 55 million schilling you spend on the theatre in Josefstadt and for the concert hall, and thus we are already 9 percent when the budget is reduced. In addition, They increase the amount of art promotion, from which 35 million Schilling will succeed, but these 35 million Schillings do not serve to increase the budget, but have also been charged, so that you are actually 12 percent when the budget is reduced. 12 percent – this is more than the amount of discretion expenditure to be saved! On the comments by Mrs Brinek: The 20 percent were a provisional measure, which, of course, would no longer have been implemented in a regular budget and in budgetary negotiations. I'm just saying that as a marginal remark. What really happened in this art budget? What has happened to the content of this cultural area? – It has always failed to combine the competences of the three departments: culture, art and foreign affairs, because the ÖVP did not want a summary of the coalition negotiations. – Now you have ideologically everything in one hand and still do not manage to summarize it. Therefore, it happens that the interesting, modern art in the new media comes under the wheels of Mrs Gehrer's Ministry of Culture, although you do not want to. If you had that in a resort, it would have been easier to solve this problem. I would also like to refer to the Government Agreement. It is a bit sad that as the only result of your negotiations, the contemporary has come out of this government agreement. For this, you have come to want to strengthen the regional component – and I would just like to tell you that, according to our constitution, culture is a matter of country. That means that the countries have to pay for it on their own. – We wanted to address this issue of contemporary art through incentives, through funding on the federal side. But we should focus very briefly on the figures. Film promotion is a bit harsh: 170 million before, now 110 million schilling. And you've declared this a priority. I would just like to say to you: Hopefully, you don't also give priority to another industry! All are trembling to be the next "focus point" because the cuts in all these "focus" settings are more than 30 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's a really "great" performance. I just hope not all in these four years will have to get on with it. From all these I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I mean, that's a legitimate right. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you take the difference?]] It is the result of the 1999 budget, and it would be very helpful for art to be able to secure these funds. Her party, the Freeman, has so far contributed to the art process: They have tried to defame people because they operate art, thereby hindering them in the professional practice. [[Abg. Neudeck: No, because they run politics! Because they operate politics, not because they operate art!]] You went to court with the artists, you have practically persecuted the artists in different areas – and you have made statements that you want to cut the art budget by 50 percent. [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you know the difference between art and politics?]] As a result, Mr Morak, the State Secretary, said that he was going to give Mr Westenthaler a reassurance because that is not possible. I just want to say quite openly: This remedial action has not yet been used if it has already taken place at all. In any case, I would recommend that a second round be launched, because FPÖ has still not approved of its demand to cut further the subsidies for art. This is at the expense of the artists, is a further burden on the artistry, i.e. those people who do not have enough money to be able to exercise their profession adequately, but who are of utmost importance to our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11119	The next speaker is Mrs Povysil. The clock is set to 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11140	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It amuses me again and again: the spring awakening of Mr. Dr. Wittmann, who, as Secretary of State, was always very reluctant in his statements. I'm glad it's the first thing that this government has done. The Secretary of State speaks, he wakes up! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What is the government's position on art and culture? What do the coalition parties say about this? – Art, they say, has an above-average importance in Austria. This importance must be maintained, expanded – what is different from the modern art you never see anywhere? – and to secure for the future. – Quote from the government programme. Read the government program before you criticize it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is one of the most traditional countries in terms of art and culture. Even the Venus of Willendorf, one of the oldest works of art in the world, was found in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This is a classic Austrian figure!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But, "Art never stands still and, under some forms, only stops under tents that are built and stopped on the track of the ideal," said Franz Liszt. – This is an important factor for us in the field of art. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What we want, what is important to us, is the task of creating stimulating framework conditions and ways of unfolding for artists. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also set out in the government programme, which you have obviously not read. It contains both the creation of a balanced, transparent and target-oriented financing plan and the social protection of the existence of artists. But now to the budget itself: By 9 percent, you, the gentlemen of Social Democracy, said, the art budget is cut short. 11 per cent, even in a request from Mr Cap. You said 12 percent, Dr. Wittmann. After what: 9, 10, 11 or 12 percent? You don't have a percentage role to play for us. I'm putting you at the heart – there's so little calculator: You can calculate with such a one once before you go down here and indicate budget figures that simply do not vote in favour of which you even disagree in the application. What is the policy of dealing with taxpayers' money?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The art budget has remained almost the same in the previous years, although, as you yourself admitted, you yourself have said, it is not written anywhere, it has been promised: by Wittmann, by climate, by Edlinger – 620 million schilling is missing. How even the SP-dominated politics in the arts and culture field takes up two things: Promises that you don't then hold – and the collection of artists. An example: There was a panel discussion at the SP Parliamentary Club. Dr. Cap was the chairman or participated in this panel discussion. I myself was not present, but a writer who has already been quoted today, namely Marlene Streeruwitz, after this panel discussion, has publicly expressed himself and vehemently rejected by means of a press service, that you, Dr. Cap, have tried to take her politically by saying that she is a citizen – there is a press service, you can gladly reject it – when it comes to who determines the fate of this country. She said: If not! for it can not only be that your party is the one that can determine the fate of the country and the only true and right. That was behind this statement. The artist, Dr. Cap, is not allowed to take part. Artists have a particularly sensitive sense of freedom. Let this be said by a liberal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, instead of being old, intransparent and often unexplained, one-sided subsidy policy, new ways of financing must be pursued. This includes: Artists should be able to distribute their income for three years. Business expenditure in the field of art is to be standardised. Austria is to be designed more attractively as a place of residence for artists. The foreign tax is supposed to fall. An artist's social insurance scheme for independent artists will be created, with the artist's disciplines themselves determining who is an artist. I have heard very little applause from the SP series in the case of artist social insurance, for which Mr Morak has already argued today. Now I'm wondering, As social democrats, have you now also adopted the word "social"? These are those measures that allow free art creation, because only one makes really free art possible: existential independence. And for these we act, and these we try to make art and the artists thrive – not dependence, not word support, not political inclusion. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Art in all its diversity, as we understand it, includes innovative but also brittle and controversial. But we also stand for the preservation of our cultural heritage. And we have been massively committed to the preservation of the cultural property book, for the preservation of non-printable books such as for example at works of poetry, for the continuation of small and medium-sized bookshops, and finally for the discount that ultimately benefits the consumer. However, it is yours that you have conducted this matter primarily – I remember when Mr Wittmann, Mr Wittmann, spoke in favour of it; They are against it again – again for party politics and not for the matter, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Art and culture have increasingly become an economic factor in Austria. Around 115 000 people in the Austrian cultural economy are implementing around 320 billion schilling. – These are impressive figures, and they have been presented by the National Bank Governor Dr. Liebscher on the occasion of the idea "Kulturpark Österreich". In Spain, the culture sector is already the country's fourth largest economic power, ahead of sectors such as pharmaceuticals, textiles and others. This becomes obvious – this is something that They simply don't want to hear or not to understand – that culture can also be self-sustaining if proper management and proper sponsorship are available through adjusted tax legislation. An example: There is art not only in Austria, art is international, let's take a look over the borders, let's look at the overseas, let's not stay in the narrow, ever-increasing cultural political circle in Austria, if we go through cultural policy as such! Let's take a look at the U.S.! There public cultural promotion is understood as a catalyst for private fund raising. So-called Challengers Grants allow public funding – but only when a part of the sum has been paid by private authorities. The knowledge that this donation is multiplying and that fiscal legislation is adapted is a convincing motivation for private donors. This shows that in America the number of orchestras increased from 110 to 230 between 1966 and 1996, the number of theatres from 56 to 425, the number of opera houses from 27 to 120 and the number of dance groups even increased from 37 to 450. The state indirectly subsidizes the culture through tax outages. However, the distribution of funds is left to the citizen. And here we come to the jumping point: From our point of view, art should serve much more than in recent years not only the self-satisfaction of elite circles, but also the concern of each individual citizen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The new government has made a controversial discussion and, ultimately, has already led to a clear recovery in the arts and culture sector – a situation that has not been achieved years before. Now it's talking, it's being discussed, it's being politicized, art and culture can be discussed with everyone these days. In the past there was silence, and an ideological ceiling was spread over the culture. On the other hand, we have moved a lot. I am convinced that a society that really deals with art is vital, human and immune to challenges and prejudices. We are finally creating the conditions for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11254	The amendment tabled by Dr Cap and Comrades in the course of Mr Wittmann's debate has been sufficiently supported and is therefore negotiating. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11278	Mr President. High house! First of all, Mrs Povysil, because she is so proud to speak here as a liberal, can be reminded that freedom is not the same as freedom, it is something similar to freedom, and that is probably not quite the founding fathers of the Freedom Party at the time of its founding. Secondly, like my colleague, Mr Cap, I would like to reject the attempts of President Fassleven to censor the free word of our chairman Gusenbauer, because the accusation of partial racism is not based on a prejudice or misjudgment, but on a judgment. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] For example, honourable Members Partik-Pablé said that the black Africans not only looked different, they were also different, especially aggressive, that was apparently in the nature of these people. They're usually illegal, and they're usually drug dealers. – That's not racist? Or: Mr Prinzhorn has claimed that foreigners received free drugs for hormone treatment from the Social Office to increase their fertility, while domestics are only very rarely granted. – That's not racist? The demand for Tbc tests for immigrants, especially for foreigners in kindergartens and schools, by your former Member and chairman Haider, is not racist? The accusation in the Vienna election campaign that the German reading books imposed on our Viennese children by side Turkish and Serbian texts is not racist? The accusation that under the Wiener SPÖ it is possible that black African asylum seekers with designer suit and luxury phone can go unimpeded in their drug business is not racist? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The accusation that a China-local is being promoted by 600,000 s while domestic bees are empty is not racist? This list could be continued at any time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, Mr Gusenbauer's judgment is that this is partly racism, judgment and no prejudice. – So much for that. Now it's art. Some in the field of art and culture in the 2000 budget can be expressed in figures. Compared to the 1999 Federal estimates, which amounted to 1.15 billion schilling, there is now a reduction to 1.098 billion schilling in the Federal estimates 2000. This is a minus of 51 million schilling, compared to the success of 1999 it is a minus of 154 million schilling. This is already a significant reduction, with some areas particularly affected, such as literature for which the funds have been reduced from 168 million schilling to 124 million schilling, i.e. by 26 percent, or the area of film for which the funds have been reduced by 11 percent, and the field of cultural initiatives for which the funds have been reduced by 11 percent. This is particularly regrettable in the case of cultural initiatives, since there has been a wide variety of cultural life in Austria since its foundation, there is a wide regional scatter and there is a great variety. Therefore, the IG authors rightly say that this is a pre-programmed debakel. But what is much worse than these figures expressed in the budget is the disaster in the spiritual and cultural sphere. Never before has a government of the Second Republic provoked such a uniform rejection, across the lines of worldly fronts. And that's not for no reason. In the course of the debate on the diagonals, for example, Mrs Povysil said that politics is there to create framework conditions for art and culture, and not to promote forward-looking political abuse of art, there are Party promotions. Or she goes on to say that a critical statement by Austrian filmmakers in the festival catalogue would be alarming if artists were to express themselves diffamatoryly about the government that allows the framework conditions for its creation, and therefore these funds would not be used artistically but politically misused. – The means of taxation are not the private treasure of Mrs Povysil! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Diffaming is not beautiful!]] Or: ÖVP State Councillor Hirschmann says that he is basically for the freedom of art, but that such cases as they happened need to be considered because all who appear in this context hang on the feed trough of the Republic. And he goes on to say, of course, that it is up to every artist to express his own opinion, but they should not think you for all the time. Or: Ms Zierler spoke of "State artists" in the Cultural Committee. If you have such statements, you must not be surprised if, for example, the sister and brother of the world-famous writer Ingeborg Bachmann, Isolde Moser and Heinz Bachmann, say that the use of the name Ingeborg-Bachmann-Preis is forbidden to the country of Carinthia until they can assume that politics in this country is no longer ashamed and worthy of her author, Bachmann, who belongs to the world literature. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The government's basic dilemma not only expresses the naked budget figures, but the basic dilemma of this government, in my view, expresses Peter Turrini best when he says – I quote – that: "Mr. Haider, tells his sister, wanted to become an actor for everything in the world. He had been practicing roles for days and so longed for a stage performance. Mr. Principal, by Haider for a minister's office, reads his poems in the small circle. Mr. Mölzer, chief ideologist of the Haider Party, publishes novels. Mr Westenthaler, Head of the Group of the Haider Party, presented his watercolor in a gallery in Simmering. Mr Sichrovsky, European Member of the Haider Party, writes plays. Mr Morak, State Secretary for Culture in the new government, plays theatre and is a pop singer. Mr. Schüssel, Federal Chancellor, plays piano... Artists in Power!" [[Abg. Young: The SPÖ whistles out of the last hole!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you hear that? The SPÖ blows out of the last hole!]] I quote: "When Jörg Haider failed to get an engagement at the Linzer Landestheater or at the Stadttheater Klagenfurt, he replaced the whole country, even the whole world to his stage. When Mr. Mölzer could bring out his sweaty men's prose to no publishing house, but only to self-publishing, he became Haider's cultural advisor. The desire to retaliate on his more successful colleagues is to look at him, and the Austrian press will not set any limits on his desire. Peter Sichrovsky, who served as a Burgtheater author and was rejected by Claus Peymann, then invited the public to storm the Burgtheater on the occasion of the premiere of Bernhard's "Heldenplatz". Which authors should now, with the state power in the background, be stormed? And Franz Morak, the most talented and tragic of all, who is staring at a grueling mine and will soon be a loan politician on carnival festivals? And the dreamed-out bowl? Untalented, semi-talented, three-quarters talents and talent traitors – now they are in power, real state artists. Now they can finally re-establish their tormented artistego, their backward narcissism, their small artist self-consciousness, raise her monumentalal, rise to heaven with the state base under the feet: free for the dove shoot." - Quote Peter Turrini. I am saying this because I believe that the name Peter Turrini will still shine if the veil of history has long been compassionate about this government. But it's a little paradox: Jörg Haider says he's wearing his mascot, not around his neck, but in front of the brain. The kind of "gregulate" quickly binds around a tie and says that the FPÖ has changed anyway – and the EU sanctions... – That's what we call past management in Austria. In this sense, I would like to conclude by saying:
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11413	The motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Cap and Comrades on the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Volksanwalt Schender came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11437	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return once again to the statements made by Mr Dr Kräub, who, in an actual correction, has distanced himself from his submission and has apologised that the lawyers had been accused by him of party-political agitation. Mr. Dr. Kräub, if you use formulations such as the government's "government force" for the government's legislative initiative, will be instrumentalized by the government, then please submit to the public prosecutor that it can be instrumentalized by the government. – And we would like to reject that with all determination! In the last 23 years – and Mrs Korosec has already done this – this accusation has never been raised in this House of my knowledge. I am now 11 years in the function of a popular lawyer, but it has never occurred in this period – not in the debate on the reports of the People's Procuratorate in the National Council or in the budget debates – that any MP would have assumed that we would act party-politically in the People's Procuratorate. On the contrary: Especially that group, which is not represented in the People's Procuratorate, namely the Greens, has repeatedly stressed that it would like to emphasize the objective administration of all three Volksanwalts in particular and particularly commend them. I do not think it is necessary to remove and document the independence and objectivity of the public prosecutors in the administration of the office. Dr. Herbs! We don't want to do justice. I believe that you have become a little victim of an unfortunate discussion of the past few weeks in the field of justice, when some have been misinterpreted in the newspapers and many have been misinterpreted by representatives of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, by representatives of the public service, by representatives of the judicial association and many more. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is why, as a popular lawyer, who has been responsible for the field of judicial administration for 11 years and for all complaints relating to the Ministry of Justice, I would like to put some things in the right direction. If it was said that the judicial administration would also be examined in the future and that even judges should be examined in the future, and that an outrage was subsequently expressed by the media and by some representatives of the Trade Union Confederation, it must be said that, of course, since the People's Procuratorate's Office, since 1977, we have been able to control and control the whole of the judicial administration, which is completely unblemished, completely unquestionably. There is no area of judicial administration in Austria, which would not be subject to the public prosecutor's control. A few years ago, there was still the right of grace in which one could disagree whether that was part of the judicial administration or not. With the help of the Constitutional Court, we have, together with Minister of Justice Dr. Michalek, been able to clarify that the judicial administration is also subject to full control by the People's Procuratorate. So for 23 years, we have been examining the entire execution of sentence, the public prosecutor's office, the right of all officials to serve in the Ministry of Justice and, of course, to a small extent, to judge justice in the proceedings, as this is also part of the judicial administration, because it is subject to the supervision of the President and the Minister of Justice. All that can be assessed, monitored and examined by the Minister of Justice is also subject, in short, to public prosecutor control. Thus, we have been examining by means of the oversight of the service since then and ever claimed laziness of judges. Such cases account for approximately 25 percent of the judicial investigation, about 80 to 90 cases a year. Mr Neugebauer from the Public Service Union is now outraged, I hear about the demonstration and read in a newspaper that the People's Procuratorate now claims the right to submit requests for deadlines. – My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, I reject this with all my determination as an untruth. The People's Procuratorate has never applied this approach to the National Council, has never submitted such an suggestion to the National Council, but we have been surprised by the People's Procuratorate itself by this request, which was originally prepared for the coalition of the Socialists with the ÖVP and has now been taken over by the now in office coalition government, as we have heard. [[Abg. Leikam: Social Democrats, Mr. Volksanwalt, Social Democrats, if so!]] – Socio-Democratic, apologise many times, I would like to correct this, of course. That very wording, which is now contained in the present draft, would therefore also have been included in the coalition agreement between the Socialists and the Austrian People's Party, without the public prosecutorship having known anything about it before, without anyone in the public prosecutor's office having had any influence on anyone. [[Abg. Leikam: Well, it's okay!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right! I expressly confirm that!]] This request also states that we claim the right to stimulate disciplinary proceedings. – We do not claim that either because we already have this right! We've had it ever since: We can at any time encourage service-related measures in the field of federal administration, we can even make formal recommendations to a government body through the College. This institution shall then be obliged, within eight weeks, either to follow the recommendation or to give full reasons why it does not follow that recommendation. So it's not right that we'd ever shown ambitions to get the deadline proposal into our hands as an instrument of the public prosecutor's office. It is also not correct, as is repeatedly claimed, that the public prosecutor would like to review the case law. – There has never been any such decision in the public prosecutor's office. In no report of the People's Procuratorate, there has ever been a single line in which the Volksanwälte would like to make use of the review of the Procuratorate's case. There are only a few opinions and discussions by Mrs Korosec, who spoke personally – ad personam – at press conferences, but who have never been presented on behalf of the Institution People's Procuratorate, but only as personal statements of the colleague Korosec – and you will still be allowed to think! And, of course, you will also be allowed to express your views on things that do not concern you, but which are still causing a headache. Some of the judgments you're making are just breaking your head. I don't want to break my head because I just don't want to give up because I can't because I'm not allowed to check, control, comment, or interpret judgments in any way. That's why I don't do it at all, because it just doesn't belong to my job. However, Mr Korosec has the right to say that there should perhaps be an extrajudicial body subject to control of the decisions which appear questionable. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's incredible!]] In any case, this is not the opinion of the People's Procuratorate! – Mr Dr. Herbs, I say it again: [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's incredible!]] That's her personal opinion... – May Mrs. Korosec have no opinion? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's incredible!]] The majority of lawyers, Dr. Kräube, have clearly repeatedly expressed that the case law cannot and must not be the subject of public prosecutors' examination proceedings, because this would mean a breach of the constitutional principle of separation of power. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Then don't do it!]] That is why we have always made these considerations ad acta and never seriously considered it, nor has it been seriously represented by the public prosecutor's office. Now to the deadline request. This proposal for a deadline is probably a well-intentioned proposal, which might be applicable in individual cases once or twice a year by the public prosecutor or by the public prosecutor responsible for justice. However, I would like to stress: We do not need this instrument because we have a much more efficient and more rapid positive outcome with the rounding-up of the Justice Minister and the Presidents of the Court of Justice, because as soon as a review procedure is initiated on a claim of fairness in a court procedure, this usually leads to the continuation or acceleration of the procedure within a few weeks by means of the service supervision. The complainants usually call me and inform me about the successful intervention of the public prosecutors, even before the Minister of Justice can inform me that the outcome of the investigation procedure is now available to him. We do not therefore necessarily need this instrument of the deadline proposal. It could then and when prove appropriate if there were a very stubborn judge who was in charge of the supervision of the service, or if there was an incompetent supervision of the service, if a President did not comply with his supervisory duty, then this deadline request might be an instrument that we could use. But, as I said, these are more orchid traps. Of the 80 or 90 cases a year, I believe that this would be one or two cases at most. If the Constitutional Legislator considers that this deadline application should be part of the public prosecutor's agency in the future, we will certainly be happy to use it, but with great certainty it will be extremely economical and at most once a year. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11592	Mrs. Volksanwalt, Dr. Christa Krammer, has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11617	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to tell my dear colleague Herbs in all friendship that it has amazed me to hear that the People's Procuratorate – and so on – is part of a "government force". I've never been instrumentalized in my life, and I can't imagine anyone who would ever be able to instrumentalize myself for anything. From that day on which I was praised by the President of the Federal Republic – and I can say this, as I believe, also for my colleagues and for all the others who have ever held the office of the Public Prosecutor – we have all understood ourselves to the best of our knowledge and conscience as a lawyer of the citizens! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] I even trust to say that you will not find anyone across Austria who accuses one of the lawyers of acting party-politically. [[Abg. Kiss: The herbs, the herbs!]] So much for these remarks! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: The herbs, the herbs!]] – I do not know what is going on in the brains of the other Members, so I say it for everyone at least once! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would now also like to express my opinion on the long-standing wish of the People's Procuratorate...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11715	I call Mrs Volksanwalt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11730	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol, I see this as a compliment. Can I? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] - Thank you many times. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the long-standing desire of the lawyers to make legislative proposals: If, on the basis of complaints from the population or on the basis of their own perception, the people's lawyers find that a law should be amended to prevent complaints from being avoided from disadvantages of the population, inconveniences for citizens, for parts of the population, then I wonder why it should not be possible to make an application to the House for such a law. The People's Procuratorate understands itself as the aid body of Parliament – that's how we are always defined. So it must be possible for this Parliament's body to submit to the House the perceptions made in the exercise of its activities. I cannot see where, in what way, the law of the Members should be restricted or reduced if the People's Procuratorate submits to the House legislative proposals. Where's there supposed to be a reduction? No one takes anything away from the honourable Member! But above all, no one decides on this bill instead of the Members. No one controls the Members. No one is maiming them in their right hand. Why, then, should the public prosecutorship be able to help individually, on the basis of an individual complaint, in individual cases, but why should it not be possible for us at the same time to try to solve their problems by means of a law application for several people? I am not saying 'to find', I deliberately say 'to try', because the decision about it lies with you, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I do not know where these concerns come from because of taking away the rights of Members. If the People's Procuratorate, for the Volksanwälte this possibility, I think this would be in the greatest interest of the citizens! And you, ladies and gentlemen, are here to safeguard the interests of citizens. So any measure that serves the interests of the citizens should be welcomed by you, and there should be no "anxiety" – I say now quite carefully and under quotation marks – that something could be taken away from you. That's a trick! That conclusion is wrong! Otherwise, it would be if the Volksanwälte demanded the right of vote in the House. That would be a completely different desire! It would also be too much desire for me to do so, because we would intervene in the legislation – and this contradicts the principle of sharing of power! This would affect our rights which we are not entitled to from the Constitution. But we will still be allowed to be an auxiliary body in Parliament, because that is what we are de facto too. Ladies and gentlemen! The second point that I would like to address is that over the last few weeks there has been so much debate on the control of justice by the lawyers. I agree with what my colleague, Mr Schender, said: It was from the beginning only a discussion within the People's Procuratorate, but it has never been officially demanded by the Volksanwalts to be able to control the courts! I immediately said that can't be. The Public Prosecutor's Office cannot intervene in independent jurisdiction. This would also be a breach of the principle of the division of violence, which is an essential pillar of any democracy, so it must not be counter-carryed or lost – neither with a blow nor with a nice slow, peu à peu, by means of salami tactics. However, it is true that in the speeches very many people come to us complaining about judges, about judgments, about processes they have lost. Why not? I think one could now find a way to enable the public prosecutorship – and if it is nothing else, then we might be able to do so – to simply pass on these complaints to them without commenting! We're just saying: We had talk there and there about this or that judge, about this or that judge, about this court, and so on, these or those complaints have come to us. Then one can bring this to the attention of the respective court. But to influence how the courts deal with it within their scope of action and how they deal with it is certainly not the case of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! In all the years of the existence of this institution, I think that all the lawyers who have ever been there, as well as their employees, have worked to the satisfaction of many citizens, although not always to the satisfaction of those authorities which have controlled or reviewed them. But that's our business! That's why we're here! ==References====External links== In July 1973, Dr. Fischer, now President of Parliament, warned, and that was thought very carefully of him – I quote literally –: "The danger is great that you're thinking of someone," is thought as a popular lawyer, "one of which you assume that he hurts no one." - Quote. Looking back, Mr President, this was thought very carefully, but, I think, it has proved over the years that no one who was afraid of hurting anyone has agreed. This is certainly not the case with us! [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ, the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is now a lot of talk about new selection criteria for the Volksanwälte. Should they be realized, I would like to see those lawyers who come out of these new selection criteria, regardless of the occupation, as well as their predecessors, have an open ear to the citizens and work to their satisfaction. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you to preserve the institution of public prosecutors, not to undermine them, but to develop them in a meaningful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11779	The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. The clock is set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11800	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in plenary! It is indisputable that in the few weeks and months since the change of government, a number of things have been done in the art sector. I do not think the balance sheet is as timely as you do, Mr Cap. As evidence, I briefly mention some measures that have been taken to meet demands – by artists and cultural artists for years. At work, for example, after the review process and the pre-treatment in the committee responsible, is the legal anchoring of the book price, a subject in which, as I still hope, the opposition side can also go along with it, it is quite similar demands and an important measure to preserve diversity in the Austrian book market. It is important for consumers, producers and trade – especially for small people, i.e. SMEs, and not megagroups – and even more important for Austrian artists, who will not yet or perhaps never reach best-selling standards, and who may not even want to do so. In addition, there will be tax reliefs for artists, i.e. the provision of flatrates, the possibility of the distribution of income to be taxed over a longer period and tax reliefs for foreign artists, i.e. measures that will clearly facilitate the lives of artists. What will be the next thing to take into account is the long-sleeved, ever-new promised and never-completed chapter of artist social insurance. I assure you: This time it will be done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, what I would like to focus on today is a purely forward-looking regional project, namely Graz as a cultural city 2003. The Kunsthaus Graz is closely linked to this. State Secretary Morak is well-deserved after the old Federal Government had promised the financing, but it was by no means budgetaryly guaranteed, after agreement with Mrs. Landeshaufmann Waltraud Klasnic and the competent representatives of the city, to have made a proper commitment and to enforce the anchoring of the programme's share in the budget. The federal government will thus contribute 250 million Schilling to the cultural city of Graz in five tranches from 2001 to 2005. Ladies and gentlemen! As has been said, this is not a regional project, it is a European project, it is an international one. Graz will be a European cultural city in 2003, the only one this year, whereas usually two to three cities a year share this title. So this is an opportunity for Austria, for the whole Republic to be profiled. The project of the Kunsthaus plays a central role in the design of the cultural city. This is not just about the presentation of art, but what is to be offered and built here is a multifunctional, architecturally innovative and aesthetically outstanding concept with hardly any possible consequences for construction technology and communication technology. I don't know if you saw the pictures of the draft in various press reports. ==References====External links== April 2000, if someone wants to look more closely, for example, was printed a color photo. [[the speaker keeps the said newspaper up to date]] Peter Cook sees the house with a blue transparent skin as a facade, which at the same time forms ceiling, wall and floor and into which already technical elements are incorporated – a three-dimensional, utopian form. As I said, Exciting and setting new standards in architecture and art in every respect, a new cultural landmark for Austria. Although there are still no definitive commitments from the two responsible ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs to finance the Kunsthaus Graz, I very much hope for a positive completion after the years of the Slalom course of the Styrian cultural representative in terms of time, construction location and, above all, funding. In short, to the backgrounds I'm playing on with them: With that money, which would in principle have already been available for the construction of the Kunsthaus, shortsighted, loose and irresponsible has been handled. At the end of 1995, Schachner-Blazizek, a national cultural expert, took over 290 million schilling for construction measures, especially for the Kunsthaus. An additional 60 to 80 million schillings were added each year. In March 2000, however, according to Schachner's statement, the revenue from radio and television schilling was completely consumed, for large-scale projects such as the "Jazzsommer", and it was expensive, complex, reproducing and for the other, unsubsidized jazz musicians and the small climate in Graz – I can say that from my own experience, and many musicians have told me about it – a fiasco. While they obviously have to ask for entry, chessman delivered bread and games with the "superremes" or with the "Golden Gate Quartet" – of course free for the people. The following is to be said: In the elaborate accompanying advertising, not always the portraits of the artists, but always the portrait of Mr. Kulturferent were to be seen. That's just on the verge. [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] In any case, I hope that the construction of the Kunsthaus as a federal issue will be given particular attention, as a project that is truly important and exciting in the positive sense for Europe, and as a model that can bring Austria the opportunity to have a high and positive international reputation, after Spain has demonstrated with Bilbao or France with the Centre Pompidou, which is possible through smart and modern art and cultural planning for the entire population of a country, for cultural tourism and economic infrastructure. The contemporary Austrian and international art scene is therefore to provide new opportunities for development in a new dress and a new framework, thereby setting global and regional priorities, as already formulated in the Preamble to the Declaration of Government, as a goal of an innovative art and cultural policy based on a secure, transparent and manageable calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11847	The President of the Court of Auditors has the floor to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11868	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Lady's People's Lawyers! Dear Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! The Federal Budget of 2000 provides for total expenditure of just over 781 billion Schilling. Of this, around 315 million schilling are planned for the Court of Auditors, which is less than half a prom. I would simply like to highlight the relationship between the total expenditure of the federal government and expenditure on the top control body in financial matters. In the course of today's discussion, I was asked whether I am satisfied with these financial possibilities for the year 2000. I have to answer: Of course, the Court of Auditors' budget on the one hand does not entirely correspond to the views of the Court of Auditors itself, but also to the President of the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, it is clear to me, of course, that in times of a tense budgetary situation, the Court of Auditors must also take on certain restrictions and not be satisfied with all the wishes. The Court of Auditors itself has for several years been insisting that in the Federal Republic of Germany, but also in the other local authorities, there is a shortage. He cannot, of course, withdraw from this sickle either with regard to his own house. However, I would like to clarify the following – which is also in line with an international comparison: Even if it is a matter of strictly saving expenditure, you should always consider where to save. One should not save linearly – I think it is very bad – but one should save where there are actually savings potentials, and one should not be tempted simply to drive across the entire federal event with a certain percentage and make linear cuts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's what the Edlinger did!]] The worst thing, however, would be to be tempted to start with the top control agency to take savings measures, because it has still been shown that this is a saving in the wrong place. [[Discouragement by Green MEPs]] [[Abg. Edlinger: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) What are you doing in the autumn? Then who's to blame?]] We have clearly explained in several Court of Auditors reports the areas in which we have succeeded in achieving savings through our audits. And these savings are often much higher than the annual budget for the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on representatives of the ÖVP, the Free and the Greens.]] Of course, financial opportunities also have an impact on the human resources requested by the Court of Auditors. He has not been granted them all the way. The Court of Auditors has 345 plans. To compare: These 345 planning posts face about 750 000 people in the various audited bodies – this relationship should only illustrate how few people of the Court of Auditors have to deal with in order to carry out their audit tasks. But this has still been achieved in the past. However, this year we are faced with a very special task, namely the execution of the reference limitation law which has already been discussed several times in the discussion. It is known that the Court of Auditors has been entrusted with the task of drawing up a report which mentions, in particular, all persons who receive more than 80 000 S per month from public funds. The legislator has assumed in the constitution of this law that all those who are called to comply with the law order also comply with this obligation. As has now been shown, this is not the case at all. The legal entities – more than 5,000 – who would be obliged to report the reports of their staff to the Court of Auditors have often withdrawn from this obligation. Therefore, starting a few weeks ago, we had to send reminders to the legal entities and we now hope that these reminders will contribute to the fact that the reports will still be received in full and, above all, not anonymized, because the Court of Auditors cannot begin with anonymized reports, and the Court of Auditors cannot base its report on anonymized reports. However, if I see what reports have been received and are still being received, I have to express my concern that we will at least receive correct reports from 50 percent of all legal entities. This means, in further consequence, that the Court of Auditors will be obliged, under the law, to consult everywhere where the reporting obligations of the parties have not been met. This would be seen in an immeasurable number, at least far more than 100, several 100, probably more than 1,000. Finally, it will have to be a judicial decision to decide whether a report as to how it has been submitted to the Court of Auditors can be drawn up in any way, as the argument of the audited bodies that refuse to make full reports to the Court of Auditors goes in the direction that this Constitutional Act is contrary to the EU Data Protection Directive. By the way, this is an opinion not shared by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery. The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office has explicitly assured us that this legal view is inapplicable and that § 8 of the Relevant Restriction Act – a constitutional provision – is also in line with the EU Data Protection Directive. If, on the basis of the expected refusals, we take an insight into where refusals have been made by the parties concerned – where anonymized reports or no reports at all have been received – then we wanted to do all of this in this year, so that we could no longer fulfil our audit tasks. However, since the audit tasks represent the core business of the Court of Auditors, I cannot account for this House to concentrate the entire activity of the Court of Auditors solely on the implementation of the Remuneration Restriction Act. We will, of course, continue to carry out, as is provided for in the Constitution, our survey orders throughout the federal administration, throughout the state administration and in the local administration that has been transferred to us for examination, which do not limit itself to collecting more than 80 000 S from public funds. We will, of course, - and this was also expressed in the discussion - also comply with our international commitments and, together with the European Court of Auditors, we will also have to carry out the audits carried out in Austria. We owe this to the Republic of Austria as a net payer towards the European Union, but also to all taxpayers in Austria. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] I would now like to make the following very clear: We will not sacrifice our conduct reviews due to the multi-tasks resulting from the contract-limitation law, but we will - and I have to draw attention to it now - have to restrict our conduct very much through these multi-tasks and, above all, through the multi-tasks resulting from the refusal of the legal agents under examination. This will not be avoided! This is the consequence of the law, but this is above all the consequence of the fact that this law is not handled in many ways by the parties called for enforcement in the same way as it was remembered by the legislator. In this context, I should like to thank you very much for the recognition that has been expressed to me today in the debate personally, the Court of Auditors and the staff of the Court of Auditors, and I will also pass on these acknowledged words to the staff of the Court of Auditors. However, I should also like to make a request to the National Council as a whole, but above all to those Members who are also represented in the audited legal entities who would have to submit the reports under the Reference Restriction Act. I can ask you: Let your influence be asserted so that the Court of Auditors, in the context of the implementation of this law, will have everything to do with making it easier for him to return this report! [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] You have passed this law. You have expressed your wish for this report. Now support the Court of Auditors so that it can get assistance from your side in fulfilling this obligation! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11960	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e11982	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Originally, I thought I was the last speaker on this item on the agenda. There's someone else coming after me, but I assume I still don't have to change my speech. Before I start, however, I would like to say a warm thank you to the honourable Member from this point of view, thank you very much for the success he has made in his speech in provoking an insight into the emotional areas of our lawyers. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Grabner]] I would like to thank the ladies and Mr Volksanwalt very much for your work in the interests of our citizens. This is a work that usually takes place very quietly and accompanied by very little public attention, but for the individual means a lot unheard of. As has been said, today this speech provoked us to experience the fashion word of the year 2000, "Schulterschluss", in an extremely dedicated way. I am also grateful for this, because it is good for all of us to know that the People's Procuratorate is, in fact, a non-participative instrumentation agency in our Republic to which we can rely. Today, all the lawyers have proved that they live up to this claim. Thank you many times for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a recent debate, Mr Ofner said that the issue of the ethnic groups was obviously of such little interest, especially in the opposition parties, that no one expressed it. I hate to contradict him, but I feel quite a different suspicion, ladies and gentlemen: It is precisely the subject of popular policy that is so badly suited to constantly putting on the table the cliché that is drawn by this government. Ladies and gentlemen! I have here the Preamble of the Memorandum of the Austrian People's Groups from 1997 and would like to quote very briefly from it. "The upheavals in European history have shown that the protection of national minorities is an essential factor in stability, democratic security and peace on this continent. A pluralist and truly democratic society not only pays attention to the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all members of a national minority, but also creates conditions that allow them to express, preserve and develop their identity. This requires the creation of a climate of mutual respect and dialogue so that ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic diversity for each society can prove to be a source and a factor not of division but of enrichment. The importance of minorities in a society is an essential measure of their liberality and tolerance." - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government is more than fair to this Preamble in the field of ethnic group policy. That is the reason why, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is so badly suited to make the appropriate criticism here. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government – at the head of our Federal Chancellor and Deputy Chancellor – started dialogue with the chairpersons and vice-presidents of the People's Advisory Councils in a very committed manner at the beginning of its activity. It has thus given a very clear political signal that it is a particular concern, taking into account the Preamble of this Memorandum, precisely this part of politics. The government has also said: We do not want to be measured by the prejudices with which we are being persecuted, but by the actions we are going to set in the framework of our government. What are these actions in the field of ethnic group policy? Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that the state objective, one of the most essential demands of the Memorandum, is, as it were, in the target. I agree with Dr. Ofner that it will certainly not fail in the texting process and will fail to achieve a corresponding anchoring of this state target in our Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! Other areas from this memorandum are also included here. For example, the Topography Regulation for Burgenland has already been implemented. The official language regulation for the Hungarian language has been adopted since 4. May of this year's review. The adaptation of the official language regulation for Croatian language is also being prepared as something that has proved useful in connection with the work on the Topography Regulation. And, and, and – this list was allowed to continue even further. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, therefore, that it is particularly important and crucial that we perhaps – that is the positive assumption – do something like a close of our shoulders in the field of national policy here in the House, in the sense of what is in this Preamble. Finally, I would like to refer to a comment that has made me give up today. In his contribution to the debate, Dr. Ofner pointed out that, in the sense of the democratic representation of the ethnic groups from his side and his party, the discussion about a Viril mandate, about a People's Group mandate appears to be imaginable. I have therefore stopped because in the course of my work in Carinthia I have always found a subject which is associated with particular sensitivity. That is why I do not want to use it now to talk about it in a polemic way and to point out what has been in the past in different views. But I think that this handiwork, which has been so obvious here, should be the occasion for a good tradition, which has always been used by us in Carinthia, namely, to bring about an all-party solution on questions of popular policy, also in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also convinced that a truly democratically legitimate representation of the ethnic groups, where they are available regionally and can also refer to an autonomous past, is always better than the representation by dedicated representatives of associations and that it is always more reasonable to talk to people who have concerns and problems in the house, so to speak, and do not have to lead the discourse outside the house. That is why I believe that this present-day contribution by you, Mr Ofner, could perhaps have been a start-up in order to put the ethnic group policy in Austria on an even better and more consensusable basis. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12072	Mr Pilz has spoken as the next speaker. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12099	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Values of "dumps" and "dumps" from the liberal group! I would like to take part in the debate on culture and language – this is a discussion that does not take place for the first time... [[Call the liberals: What do you mean by that?]] What I mean by that is that we should deal with the "lader humps" in politics a little more precisely. The discussion on language and politics leads us either to absolute infantilization or to a call for order. There's nothing in between. As a completely non-parliamentary person – which I am not, but I try to imagine – I would expect that someone who calls the Federal Chancellor "Strolchi" not only experiences a rejection from the Federal Chancellor's side, but also the danger of the call for order. But no, the Federal Chancellor – and he has confirmed this today – even believes that it is not a problem for him to be called "Strolchi" in the performance of his office. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Strolchi said this morning that the same was true of Susi. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: There are also people with humor!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The speech confirms your level!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] You're right, that's under any criticism! This time also comes from Jörg Haider, like so many others. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It would be most appropriate for you to explain to your ex-partyman and to your coalition friend that this is under any criticism. Yes, I agree with you, it is under any criticism! I won't be "strolchi" in the future. "Mr. Federal Chancellor" and not "Susi" – that's a special tribute, especially to a woman – but "Woman Vice chancellor", as it belongs to. I only expect the members of the government parties to do so, and I hope that is not too much to demand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I swear to God: None of you will be called "strolchi." [[The speaker holds the right hand to the oath.]] With all the cakes of my home city Vienna: I will never again contribute to the infantilization of the language in this House. I hope I succeed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: We are very proud of this...!]] But I'm concerned about something else – no matter if Strolchi go, bowl or something. In another context, it is about freedom of speech and freedom of opinion. Something has happened again today, which has already been suggested several times. It is the statement of Dr. Gusenbauer, something that is not new, but merely a repetition of what people from various political camps and various states have explained and also advised to this new federal government. I would just like to contradict Mr Gusenbauer in one point: The FPÖ is not a part-racial party, it is a full-racist party. [[Oh, call the liberals.]] It is also not a part-right extreme party, it is a full-right extreme party. [[Intervocations with the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] And to convince and specifically convince the Christian Democrats all over Europe was not... [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are a left-wing fascist and a upper-stealist!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Oberverneider!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: A super-pattern! A blaze!]] [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: ( towards SPÖ) Yes, solidify with the ex-communist, please!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: You are embarrassing over there!]] Mr President, Mr Principal! I thank you for the gentle belling blaze in view of these statements. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's what you've heard before, how you've insulted the liberals!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Convincing that the Freedom Party is one in the core of a right-wing and racist party, that was essentially a merit of ÖVP-Obmann Dr. Schüssel, as far as it affected Christian-Democrat brothers and sisters. He has done years of well-documented persuasion. And the then and today Klubobmann of the ÖVP has been curious about something new, namely a "Constitutional Arch", and precisely with these reasons explains why three – then four – parties are within this "Constitutional Arch" and a fifth party would clearly be located outside. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Superneeder!]] And if Klubobmann Khol is still practicing in the bow shift, that does not mean that the now relocated arch is always where he is right now, the scale of all political things and calls for order, but just that Mr. Dr. Khol has changed his position. This is his personal right, but this cannot justify any new political culture in the National Council. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What was once outside is now suddenly inside, and what was earlier friend is now suddenly outside and opponent, just because you have to explain something you simply cannot explain according to normal habits and the principles of your parties at home and abroad? – That’s not our problem, Dr. Khol, that’s your political problem! [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's the budget speech?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: When do you talk about it?]] And you can't let that happen through order calls. It must be possible – not only in Strasbourg, not only in Brussels, not only in Washington, but also in a National Council in Vienna at the Parliament’s mouth – to call a right-wing extreme party a right-wing extreme and a racist party racist. This is at least what I expect from the freedom of speech and opinion in this House as a freely elected Member. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Young: There is also a fool's freedom, Mr. Cot!]] A few comments on cultural policy and on Mr Morak's Secretary of State. Eva Glawischnig has already pointed out what happens at the museum quarter, what happens elsewhere, what is announced in publishing policy, which is particularly evident in the classification of the artist in sheep and goats. And the only question I ask myself here with a personal reference to you, Mr. State Secretary Morak, is whether you are really aware that you are the only member of the government, which is double isolated not only to the colleagues in the European Union, but also to the artists in this Republic. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a wishful dream!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Incredible!]] If you try an shoulder closure, you will not find the shoulder closure partner you are concerned with abroad or in the country. Mr. State Secretary Morak! Among all the members of this Federal Government, you are the government member who is the most isolated. The only person in the industry who still closes your shoulder to you is Andreas Mölzer, and I do not think that you have joined this federal government in order to achieve this end of the shoulder. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You yourself rhymed, poemd and sang in 1982, and I would like to remind you of some of it at the end, because your own texts are always the best way to think about it. [[Abg. Kiss: That's what the Wabl has already done!]] "If you want to know something about prostitution, then don't ask at the belt, at the Wiener Naschmarkt, in the Prater Hauptallee, ask one who is in business for ten years in Austria." And: "You have to give yourself the breaks I like." In this sense, Mr State Secretary, I wish you the highest possible level of health. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12437	Deputy Pilz! For the expression "a full-right extrem" and "Nazist party", the I'll give you a call for order. [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I shall, however, be presented with the minutes for safety reasons and decide on them at the end of the sitting. [[Further calls.]] You said "Nazist." [[Contradict with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: (in the direction of Greens) You still defend that! That's the last class!]] I shall then have the minutes presented and decide upon the submission of the minutes, Mr Deputies. No one is reporting on this. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Business treatment!]] For business treatment: Mr Van der Bellen. [[Continued calls and unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12520	Mr President. If you look at the minutes of the last 15 minutes, then I would also like to pay particular attention to the calls made by Mr Haigermoser, who took place in... [[Abg. Haigermoser: I ask for this! Don't turn off, you wolf in the sheepspelt!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would also ask you to take this call into account. I am not going to repeat all the other calls made by Mr Haigermoser. I hope that they are sufficiently kept in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12559	For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12580	Mr President. I will not comment in the plenary session of the National Council on the corresponding agreement in the Presidency, but I would have liked to know how this can be understood: Giving You call for suspicion? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's not a question hour!]] You have originally said that this call for order will be issued, but in retrospect, upon presentation of the Stenographical Protocol, you reserve a judgment once again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's what the President decides!]] I don't quite understand. The idea really arises that you, Mr President, on suspicion give a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12626	I understood the word "Nazist Party". They have corrected and said "a racist party". And since this was obviously not clearly recognizable to me in the tumult, I will have the protocol presented and make use of my right to decide on it. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You will not justify yourself to Kostelka!]] In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote, first of all we shall vote on the opinion group I of the Federal Government's proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapters 01 to 06 of the Federal Proposal in 60 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the advisory group II of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 10, 13 – including the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 13 – of the Federal Estimate in 60 of Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of Supplements. Mrs Cap and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. First of all, I will vote on the part of the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group II, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Cap and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning the sum of the estimate approach 1/130. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the Advisory Group II in 60 of the Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the Advisory Group II, which have not yet been voted on. This includes Chapter 10, 13 – including the part of the economic compensatory estimate in Chapter 13 – of the Federal Estimate in 60 of Supplements as amended by the Special Report in 80 of Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent. - That's the majority. He's accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motion for a resolution tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Consultative Group II of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap and Mr Comrades on the art budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Advisory Group III Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12690	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of the Advisory Group III, External Affairs. The rapporteur's oral report is not being reported. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12717	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Now we have finally reached that chapter that has actually been discussed since the early days, and I would like to start by expressing my compliments on what you have achieved recently. It is a progress you have made, and what you have achieved is good for our country, and I would like to say that too. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] You yourself, Mrs Minister, may well know that it was not that simple, and not that simple, because it was possible to overcome certain prejudices, but it was not that simple, because there are some concerns and there is a certain amount of explanation about what is going on in Austria. Certainly, the referendum did not help your advance, and it is certainly also counterproductive, as Commissioner Fischler pointed out, with regard to the abandonment of measures in the EU. I believe that Mrs Minister – you will not be able to confirm here – that in your daily work you will have to find a means between what would be done to end the measures directed against our country and what you cannot say or say so as not to put the coalition at risk in the country. There are some comments, even as they have been voted by speakers of the coalition today, certainly not helpful for your advances. If the measures of the fourteen are called a "feme judgment" today, then you will again have the effort to explain. You will be asked again what that meant, and it will be the question for you again: Do you do what helps the country, namely a clarification – for the price, that there will then be internal criticism from your coalition partner? The Austrian ambassador to Paris, like Commissioner Fischler, expressed this very clearly on television yesterday. Of course, there is still concern in the EU that nothing has changed, and, of course, the statements of Haider and Riess-Passers were discussed, which have fallen at the party's meeting – it has not changed – and of course, the statements to the President of the Federal Republic of Vienna also play a role. The EU not only hears what is written by the EU, but we thank God in an open Europe where everyone can hear and see what is happening in any other country. And this, please, should you consider the coalition parties: The domestic muscle game against the EU, these statements that fall here, may help you in the short term at the "fatherly support level" - I say so - but they do not help our country, they do not help the Minister, nor do they help all those who are in the process of removing these measures, because they make more effort and they create new explanations for those who are trying to do this. [[The speaker draws quotation marks in the air]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't think it's helpful either – I want to say it quite openly; You do it for domestic policy reasons – if you criticize here what Dr. Gusenbauer has done when you criticize his efforts. The Minister will know how important this is, how important all these steps are, how important all these visits and contacts are to our country, especially those from Austria who do not come from the government parties, in order to come to a new assessment within the EU. It is also not helpful, yes it is almost counterproductive, if these steps are still being pursued, reduced or made bad. This does not help us, and it also creates new explanations and new effort for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question is less serious about support in percentage points and more sensitivity when it comes to our country. That's the real shoulder closure you should make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Fischl: That's unheard of!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: IPU! Were you at the IPU Congress? What did you do at the IPU Congress?]] There are often very small things – Mrs Minister, I would also like to tell you – that come as a surprise abroad. For example, if the changes in civil service also make commemorative service impossible. The number according to the number is 12 or 14 people. But if that is true that this service is made impossible, it will mean more abroad. [[Abg. Kiss: What are you talking about? They say things that are not true!]] It will mean something if a service can no longer be provided at the Anne-Frank Memorial and at other institutions. Something will be interpreted there. This will not then be a cost issue, but it will be considered as a matter of content. Or if such statements are made as they did yesterday in the Federal Council – I think, Mr. Federal Councillor Gudenus, who is indeed a master of tactful dealings with our past, it was who called this a holiday service if I heard it correctly; Mrs Partik-Pablé has just said that this is a good service if you polish commemorative boards – if you fall into such statements, then they are not banned, but they are certainly not helpful. They are counterproductive and create again those problems that we all suffer. And that's what you should consider. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What it is all about is, I think, really good in the comment, in the article by Mrs. Krawagna-Pfeifer in today's "Standard" under the title "Solution without Facial Loss". That is what can be found: a solution without loss of face and a suspension of sanctions, which can only be achieved by persistent diplomacy. I also fully agree with her conclusion, in which she says: "In this respect, the Government's action plan – with a popular survey as the last solution, if there is no concrete plan to abolish sanctions by the end of June – was counterproductive. It is quite unlikely that the EU-14 will be impressed by intra-Austrian junkims. Rather, they are seen as evidence that the FPÖ is driving the ÖVP ahead." – That should give you the impression, ladies and gentlemen. I am quite at the end of my speaking time, I just want to sum up. Yeah, I mean it like this: Congratulations on what you have achieved, Mrs. Minister! I wish you much more support from the government parties, and I wish all of us that they do not continue to act counterproductively.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12833	Mr Spindelegger spoke as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e12855	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to continue with what Mr Schiederer said about Mrs Foreign Minister, and I would also like to express my express thanks to you for having the size of giving your recognition to a foreign minister of this government for what she has done in the Azores. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress this again for my group. What she did was actually talking about sanctions, which were imposed bilaterally, but which were pronounced by a presidency for fourteen. So far, except for an informal dinner, it was not possible to have a dialogue about it at all. I believe that Mrs Foreign Minister has really taken a step in the matter for the first time. And pictures say more than a thousand words: The caricatures that have given it that the foot is in the door say what I mean. We all know that the sanctions are not yet out of the table, but I can say to my group that this is our explicit objective: to get these sanctions away from Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I believe that this objective, if one really sees these sanctions as such, should actually find a broad majority in this House. We have already discussed this, and I must also allow myself to make a proposal for the further procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! What we do not like, however, I can also express this openly in this House: If the Foreign Minister is trying to make progress for the Austrians, it cannot be interpreted in the same direction on the other hand if your chairman, Gusenbauer, as he has now done in Paris, beats Austria from abroad with new scourges. Unfortunately, I cannot interpret this differently. I really think that these four proposals he has made are counterproductive. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] If he – you have to remember – calls from Paris to Austria, the Austrian Federal Government should stop its anti-European programmes, I can only reply: Those who read the government program cannot seriously claim this. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] If he says there should be a national action plan against racism and xenophobia, then I really want to ask him: What kind of national action plan? [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's never here! An unthinking proposal! A bad strategy!]] In our government programme, we have been particularly sensitive to any such trend. Thirdly, he proposes that the Austrian government should commit itself to the enlargement of the East. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only in the Preamble, which is part of the strategy of Austrian foreign policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And if he is still saying that we should set up a group of observers to combat racism and xenophobia in the European Union, I feel that, ladies and gentlemen, this is almost without taste. If you think about what has happened here in connection with the foreign minister, who really cannot blame racism and xenophobia – in no way! – then, I would say, this expression "tasteless" is really justified. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I should therefore like to say clearly: Our aim is to get the sanctions away from Austria. And that they are illegal, not only do we say, ladies and gentlemen. The front against Austria is crumbling. The fact is that six states have now also declared themselves in the General Affairs Council to find a way out of the sanctions is indeed remarkable. The fact that there are also politicians close to you who are clearly holding this down is more than remarkable. That your colleague in the German Bundestag, who is the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, Hans Ulrich Klose, literally says that the sanctions contradict spirit and letter of the EU Treaty and that one cannot arrest a whole country, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly what we have been representing since the beginning, since these measures were imposed on Austria by the fourteen. We are confirmed in a remarkable way; also by high-ranking SPD politicians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The aim, therefore, is to abolish these sanctions against Austria by the fourteen, not an objective that must be seen from the chauvinist point of view of the support of this Federal Government, but also from objective points of view, because this is not EU law and because it is damaging to the whole European idea. I would like to say this again for our group. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since we are talking about the budget today, I should like to make a few comments. I believe that all of us have always been aware that the Federal Ministry's budget for foreign affairs is not a huge budget, but with 1.6 billion schilling a very small one, which, compared to the total budget, experiences a very low amount of teaching, but we also know that when we look at the staff stand with about 1,600 employees and note that there is also a need to save the fact that the quality of the foreign sector is not in the financial power as a whole, but clearly in what the employees of this resort do. I would therefore like, also on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to pay particular attention to the entire diplomatic service. Especially in this difficult time, to fight with such a enthusiasm for Austria now, that also deserves an applause from this House. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I would just like to draw up a figure that illustrates the normal services provided by the foreign office for Austrian citizens and as representative authorities abroad: 660 000 consular cases in 1999! That's a huge number. These include more than 400,000 sightings, more than 200,000 normal consular cases, but also difficult matters, such as family care in cases of death or the arrest of 600 Austrians abroad. I am also entitled, Mrs Federal Minister, to acknowledgment. They have two Austrians who have been detained in a prison in Cuba, regardless of whether they have actually committed the crimes they have been charged with, and who have suffered under very painful conditions and almost died before their trial was over, in order to ensure that they are transferred to a detention centre in Austria. I would very much like to thank you for that. This shows that you also have a heart for the "little man". Thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to come to a specific point which concerns the further procedure in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Mr Mertel, you are unfortunately not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and we have talked several times about how we could perhaps come to a common procedure on the sanctions of the fourteen against Austria. There are several requests on the table, and we have also decided unanimously to set up a subcommittee on the last Committee on Foreign Affairs. Now there are still some requests that might be negotiated there, and I am extremely sorry that more than a month has passed and that we have not even been able to convene the first meeting of this subcommittee; apparently because there are several questions in the Presidency to be resolved here. I can already point to something: Mr Schieder also said this morning that the use of the house is that in the subcommittee, he or she is always presiding over, whose party or party is also chairing the committee itself. If one looks at the history of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and now only refers to the last and this period, that is not quite true as you know. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Because we have renounced it and not because it is a right of you!]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few brief remarks on why this is so. During the last and during this period, it was agreed that the question of South Tyrol should be dealt with in a subcommittee. We held a number of preliminary talks, and it was clear that the Presidency in this Subcommittee should be entrusted to ÖVP delegate and Klubobmann Khol on the basis of his personal experience in this field. And at the beginning of this period, we also discussed the fact that, in addition to the Subcommittee on Development Policy, which your group is in charge of, a subcommittee should also be granted to the liberals on the basis of their cut-off in the National Council election. We already see that, at the beginning of this legislative period, when we agreed on the further functioning of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, subcommittees should be set up with other chairmen than SPÖ. I therefore believe that we should not now call into question the question of who should have the chairmanship in the subcommittee, and thus lose valuable time, but we should act. We have not yet discussed in detail whether there can be a common procedure in this direction. I'm sorry. Today, in your speech, you have gathered that the ÖVP could create capital from it in domestic policy. I already see your concern, because I know on the other hand that your officials also murmur at the basis of what line the SPÖ has issued in the case of sanctions policy. I think we agree on one thing: Foreign policy should continue to be a matter of consensus. I would like to invite you again today: Let us talk in a small group about how we can clarify this issue of the Presidency, and let us go quickly into media res so that the chance for Austria to continue to act together before the summit in Portugal against these sanctions and perhaps open the door opened by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Ferrero-Waldner at the summit. This should be an opportunity for the whole House to also benefit from this policy of standing before Austria. I would invite you to think about it and ask you to think about it. I believe that it would be a great step forward for Austria as a whole if we could actually approach the objective of lifting the sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13000	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13022	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and in the Gallery! First of all, briefly on the comments made by Mr Spindelegger: You have now said that the Presidency in the Subcommittee would have anything to do with the abolition of sanctions. – I really don’t know where you made a connection. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: He once wanted to be together! Is that possible?]] But now on the subject that we are debating here today, on the budget of the section on external affairs. Of course, as we have now heard in the first two speeches, it is not only about the budget, but also about the current situation in which Austria is located. And I want to start with this one, too. It may already be that the diplomatic efforts of Mrs Foreign Minister in the Azores – as you said – have opened a door, the problem is that this door has been closed a few hours later, that this success, which was celebrated here, had a half-life of about twelve hours, since afterwards there was a statement from Germany, Sweden and from other EU countries that all of this was not meant to be so great. [[Abg. Steibl: That's it!]] Although, I know very well, the foreign minister is trying very hard to do something here, I must say that the torpedoing of efforts comes from the domestic, ladies and gentlemen of the government! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yesterday evening, the former Foreign Minister and current Chancellor Schüssel said in the "ZiB 2": Not we have brought Austria into this situation, but the EU. – Once again, we are at the denial of reality. I think that sometime this would have to be accepted by the government groups and by the government that it is the government participation of the FPÖ, which the EIA has made possible, which has caused these reactions of the EU. We cannot just go here now and say it has been nothing, we just need to adopt an action plan, and then everything is good again. [[Abg. Amon: That's wrong!]] – This is not wrong, my colleague. They just don't want to see what happened. You mean and say – as my previous speaker has already mentioned – that you want these sanctions to be lifted so that you can work properly in the country again – as Mr Khol said in the morning – but I do not see any actions. There are very likely also voices from your own ranks, especially from the ranks of the ÖVP. Commissioner Fischler has already been mentioned, who has meant that the art of state politics is in small steps and not in big sayings. Her government representative for the Convention on Fundamental Rights, Dr. Neisser, also said that a popular survey, whose outcome is clear anyway, would likely fuel the anti-European mood in Austria. We did not say that, the Greens or the SPÖ, but that was Mr Neisser, who is probably familiar with European policy. He said that this would fuel the anti-European mood. You, Mr Spindelegger, have meant that is not the case. I don't know, but I think you have disagreements on this and you don't know exactly what you really want. An action plan will be drawn up by the government groups, with an ultimatum threatened at the end of the day: If the "evil" EU does not lift the measures, then there will be a popular survey afterwards, and then Austria, the people, will show that we are all pro-European. – Faith You really think that's gonna use something? Do you believe that, Mrs. Foreign Minister? – You, like your senior officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, Secretary General Rohan last week in the "ZiB 2", have made a very clear statement about this by saying that you do not consider such a popular survey to be yellow from the egg but rather counterproductive. Where is the coherence within the coalition? They then make proposals on this action plan. For example, you want to consult the citizens of Europe in national and international surveys on Austria. Do you intend to ask where this image is coming from? Do you intend to ask how the NS-harmonies of several FPÖ peak politicians have been seen abroad in the past? Do you also intend to ask how statements – they have already been mentioned today – which have been made, for example, by the Member of the Partik-Pablé on Africans are appreciated and what contribution they make to the Austrian image? I guess that should be asked. I am only afraid that you will not ask these questions, but perhaps ask the picture of the Lipizzans and the Mozart balls. This picture of Austria is affected in the long term. . I would even like to see a more realistic picture of Austria coming about, but in the form you are doing, nothing will happen at all. Another thing: Federal Chancellor Schüssel himself has said that one now needs diplomatic fine feeling. I do not see this in view of the sayings that the People's Survey represents an ultimatum to the European Union. You cannot make it clear to us or to the European Commission, to the Council or to anyone else that this is actually useful and beneficial. In addition: With sage alone and with expressions like: Because of me I apologize!, the attitude behind the statements on the past and partly on the present will not be better. This does not eliminate the Nazi insolence of the past, the racist statements, the hate campaigns on the part of the FPÖ. What would be necessary – this is something that not only the Greens, but others have pointed out – is: If the FPÖ were seriously interested in a break with its past – just as Fini did in Italy – then it would have, for example, 1st. In May, there was an opportunity to do so. You could have said: We're breaking with the NS intrusion, we're breaking with the expressions of racism. We've become another party. – Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! However, you have not yet received this change of nature. Before they do not take place, all your attempts can be diverted from what you are planning and already implementing in the country with a popular survey, with surveys, with congresses and with invitations and with what I know only to do. One point I would like to address very specifically now, which Mr Spindelegger also mentioned as very loyal and as a success of Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner, namely that two Austrians who were in prison in Cuba could now be delivered to Austria. Mrs. Minister! They have mentioned these two cases themselves in the Committee on Budgets. But I'd like to ask you if you know that these two men were perpetrators. One was sentenced to sexual child abuse and the other because he killed five Cubans in a car accident. Now your commitment that these men are still in prison in Austria may be all right, but I ask you: Have you also proposed something that can be done for the victims, for the Cubans who have fallen victim to these two men, and for their families? Is there a proposal in the form of any reparation? Do you want to pay at least for them? Unfortunately, I haven't heard from you yet. I would like to address the budget, particularly in the area of development cooperation. We have already discussed this point a few times. In this area, there have been massive cuts, especially in an area that, in my view, is symptomatic of the policy of the government that we have experienced in recent weeks, and in the area of non-governmental organizations, there have been reductions of about 36 percent. Although it has been said that some areas are elsewhere, it has shown itself, on demand to the Minister and to people from her cabinet, that it is more in the direction of cooperation between states and that non-governmental organisations should only implement more projects where they have their own resources. That's why I'm wondering: Who besides the Catholic organizations, who besides the organizations who can advertise with pictures of poor starving children or who can collect donations with the need of people, comes to high own resources? How else is it possible in Austria, which has no great tradition in this regard, to come to great own resources? – This means that those organisations that do not have own resources that do not advertise images of poor and starving children, but who put on a change of consciousness in Austria or do political work will come under the wheels. [[Abg. Young: What does "do advertising" mean in this context, Mrs. Colleague?]] Where do they get their own resources? – This sets out a direction that is also contrary to international documents signed by Austria. I would remind you of the 1993 Human Rights Conference in Vienna, the 1995 Women's Conference in Beijing and the 1995 Social Summit in Copenhagen. In all these and many other international documents, Austria has agreed that it is important to season democracy with a certain amount of salt, namely the NGOs in the north of the world and also in the south when it comes to development policy. As German Chancellor Schüssel referred to the importance of human rights and democratic systems at the first EU-Africa Summit in Cairo, I thought at that time: What about non-governmental organisations, civil society in Austria? Is this just an appeal to the African countries and not to ourselves? – The appeal goes very well to us as well. And so there is massive criticism from our side of politics, which is made by your side and also by the Foreign Minister. To the budget itself: In contrast to the last year – with 950 million schillings planned, i.e. almost 1 billion according to budget estimates – today only more than 774 million schillings are estimated, with 30 million schillings being added to development cooperation only later on from another area. These 30 million schillings – which is very much an important sum – are for mine programs, for the training of people, as they have to behave in the areas where they live and are still mines, but also for mine-searchers. That is, as I have said, quite justifiable and meaningful. However, I see a certain cynicism – but this is in the past – that Austrian companies have also been involved in the fact that these mines have been put into the world at all, that they have even been exported and are still waiting in some countries to be removed with expensive devices. Children and adults are still mutilated and destroyed by these mines. I would like to mention one point where, unfortunately, there is an incoherence in the field of development cooperation as a whole. Although you have coordination expertise, Mrs Minister, the coordination still does not work as it should be. I also have two interesting statements here. The one is an answer from you from the 17th century. April. At the time, we put a question in the Committee on Budgets on the question of why the charges on undertakings have been increased by 33 million schillings. The answer to this question was: In part because of the fact that 25 million schilling, which could not be covered in the budget overrun last year, had to be included in the 2000 budget. In return, I have an answer from Minister of Finance Grasser of 19. In April, a petition was issued by various non-governmental organisations for the extension and non-reduction of bilateral development cooperation. On the question as to how the budget exceeded, with which 100 million Schilling looked forward in 1999, he writes: "As in 1999 all due commitments under the available budget for bilateral development assistance could be covered, in view of the mandatory requirements of fiscal consolidation from the Federal Ministry of Finance's point of view, an annual expenditure exceeding the financial overcapacity referred to in Article VII Z 12 BFG 1999 was not acceptable to a maximum of 100 million Schilling." - Quote. That is, the Minister of Finance says – but that was the last year, so it was the former Minister of Finance: That was not acceptable at the time, so there was no 100 million schilling. It was all covered. At the same time, the foreign minister says that the 25 million schillings last year were not covered, so we have to take them into the 2000 budget. Mrs. Minister! There is a need for greater coordination in the future, especially in view of the fact that this budget exceeds, so that at the end of the year it is said that there is now this 100 million schilling or not, in no case. Unfortunately, it now looks like these 100 million schillings are no longer available at all, and that's why the cuts do not make this year, as you think, only about 10 to 12 percent, but very probably 18 to 20 percent. Such a small amount is a shame to the third most rich country in the European Union and to one of the richest countries in the world. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think that the financial resources for development cooperation, as has already been said, are only a symbol of the direction in which this government is going, which is not very convincing in dealing with parts of civil society, which may not always be the same as this government, which is working in a direction where it is simply about setting facts. And these facts are also put – now I come back to the beginning – in dealing with the European Union. This ultimatum towards popular survey, which is also included in the Action Plan, is counterproductive and encourages the opinion that you are not really interested in the removal of these sanctions. I do not mean that you, Mrs Foreign Minister, believe this, but the way in which parts of the ÖVP act, but also the coalition partner FPÖ, makes me doubt. I agree with the German Chancellor Schüssel, who said yesterday in the "Report" that Austria would not need a parole officer. The problem is that the government itself and the political groups of the government parties must take the first step. That is to say, one must not always press one eye and be half blind on the other eye as far as the causes are concerned, one must not deny the causes and Austria must be victimised and the EU should be blamed. I was very surprised when, like many others, I was invited to the reception of the US ambassador a week and a half ago. The film "The last days" was shown, and Tom Lantos, a representative of the United States, was present and meant that National Socialism did not start in the concentration camps, but with words of hatred and that these words of hatred and intolerance are also dangerous today. It was attended by National Council President Prinzhorn, Minister of Finance Grasser and also by the foreign-political spokesperson of the Liberties, Schweitzer. I've seen how the The second President of the National Council was very congratulating, and I thought: Do you really understand what it's all about? - I don't have the impression. [[Abg. Dolinschek: He has a good hearing!]] You understand that this is about your party, Mr. Mag. You're kidding me, you want to break with this past? Only then can you expect the European Union and the other partner countries in Europe to take a step and say, okay, the causes are gone. However, you must be seriously prepared to change your being. This has not yet been done, and it is still to be waited. As long as this has not happened, as long as I fear, the efforts of the Foreign Minister will not really bear fruit.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13130	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13152	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very attentively to the opposition politicians of red and green today. It is like a red-green thread through all these speeches that one is not prepared to say something against these sanctions by nothing to justify. On the contrary, it is always tried by this speaker to state reasons for these sanctions, why it is well justified that 14 Member States of the European Union are opposed to a 15. Country sanctions, although there is no real reason to do so. That is what you are doing all the time, and that is why you are so unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and of the Social Democrats, if you say you are constantly on your way to the other Member States of the European Union to work in the interests of Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can't be credible here. So far, a person has actually managed to move through her travel abroad, and that was the woman's foreign minister's trip to the Foreign Minister's Council last weekend. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There has actually been movement because the foreign minister, with all her strength, is working for the interests of Austria, for the interests of the Austrian population. Six countries have been in favour of the abolition of sanctions since then. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] – This is a clear success, Mr Edler! Her great chairman, Comrade Gusenbauer, was also back in Paris and also brings home a success, namely the success that his colleague Jospin has promised him that the sanctions under the French Presidency will not be tightened. This is a great success, Mr. Edler! Why are these different successes in the negotiations of Gusenbauer and the negotiations of the Foreign Minister? . Here we have a foreign minister who is doing her work in the interests of the people, and there is a party president who is doing his work in the interests of the party. This SPÖ, in all its speeches today, has not managed to condemn these sanctions with all its speakers. Rather, it is still justified why these sanctions are fully justified. It is already remarkable – Mr Schieder, I have to ask you or my colleague Cap, who will come to this pult for me – what Gusenbauer has said in Paris, which has not yet been talked about. It reiterates its desire to develop a common procedure and common rules for all countries with a right-wing populist government participation. [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you mind?]] - I don't mind. But what idea is behind that? What is a right-wing populist party? What is a right-wing populist government participation? Since you've been in opposition, haven't you become a left-wing populist party, Mr. Cap? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: Populist already, popular not!]] Was colleague Pilz with his, as he believed, excellent speech – she was anything but that, Mr Pilz, she was not even funny; You yourself left the Mother of the Town Hall in the town hall – not left-populist? – Well, then we are talking about these systems for left-wing populist parties, such as the SPÖ and the Greens in this House. Let's talk about the whole thing. Right populist we observe, left populist is canal, colleague Pilz? – They are as hallowable as the members of all the other parties in this House – perhaps a little less. I would like to make that clear to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! It is a great pleasure for me to see how self-confident it is that new government, perhaps also in connection with these sanctions, is the appearance of government politicians abroad. I believe that this self-confident appearance of Austria and the representative of Austria was overdue. We've been pattern students for a long time. For too long we have only felt like a junior partner in this community and played this role. Since the beginning of the accession negotiations, the Austrian Federal Government has repeatedly gone as a bitter to Brussels, and that would not have been necessary, Mrs Federal Minister! Many legitimate demands were removed as soon as I recall the accession negotiations. I am thinking, for example, of the negotiations on transit problems. The excellent starting position has not been used to achieve optimal results. I am also thinking of the transitional arrangements that were negotiated for agriculture at the time. The results were truly not intoxicating, because one did not self-confidently negotiate, and that would have been quite possible because of the negotiating position that Austria had just had on these questions. The Austrian foreign policy was also always marked by the hunt for recognition by Brussels. Mrs. Federal Minister! Therefore, it is beneficial to track your appearances abroad – performances marked by increased self-confidence. We are an essential member of this European Union. Especially when it comes to the negotiations on enlargement, we will have a strong word to speak, and this must also be expressed accordingly when Austrian politicians appear within the framework of the European Union. This is becoming increasingly strong and self-confident in you. I would like to express my appreciation for this, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, we should not only act self-confidently, but also through the skillful use of our possibilities – this government has learned how to use opportunities skillfully – really help Austrian interests to break through. That is why it is essential to consider using all legal means in the interests of Austria, not only correctly, Mrs Federal Minister, but also necessary for the future. It will be necessary, with the approval of decisions that require unanimity, Mrs Federal Minister! One will have to consider very carefully what Austria will agree to when unanimity is necessary in the future. Overall, Austria's future European policy should be characterised by special consideration of Austrian interests, by particular consideration of the interests of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am thinking in particular of the negotiations on the enlargement of the European Union. We have also heard about enlargement in the Government Agreement, Mrs Federal Minister, but, Mr Edler, if I look at the current state of enlargement negotiations, I see that we have not yet reached very far with the negotiations. [[Abg. Edler: Only on paper!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! The main areas, such as free movement of persons, agriculture, transport policy or regional policy, have not even begun to be negotiated, and this is indeed the interests of the Austrian people, the interests of the people who live in the border area with the States who want to enter the European Union. It will be necessary to negotiate the appropriate transitional periods with regard to the free movement of persons. There will also have to be very clear restrictions on transport policy. It cannot be that there will be automatic free ride for all heavy trucks with tons of cargo to be transported. Mrs. Federal Minister! There will also be some negotiation in the field of environmental standards. There can be no competitive disadvantages for industry in Austria, because it has high environmental requirements, while industrial enterprises in those countries that want to come to the European Union do not have to comply with environmental requirements or low environmental standards. Here, too, there will be a need for clear negotiation results in order to have an agreement on accession. And last but not least, Mrs. Federal Minister, there will also have to be clear Austrian positions on the issue of anti-CFC policy, especially as regards scrap reactors – and I refer to these reactors in this way. It contains a passage in the Government Convention, but it still needs to be defined very precisely if concrete accession negotiations with the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Bulgaria or later with the successor states of the Soviet Union are to be concluded. There must be top priority for the security of the Austrian population. This is the only way I can present an agreement to enlargement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! In conclusion: I know it is a smaller minority affected, but it is still wrong that the Beneš decrees are in force that the AVNOJ decisions are in force. It will also be to be discussed when it comes to accession negotiations with the Czech Republic and Slovenia. This has to be addressed in the interest of the peoples who have a right to the fact that these injustices finally disappear from the surface of the image.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13263	Before I give the floor to the Federal Minister, I would like to confirm my call for order to Mr Pilz. There is now a partial extract from your speech. They said to the FPÖ address, "...she's a full-racist party." "She's a full-racist party," you said for the time being. And you also said towards FPÖ: "She's not a partial-right extreme party either, she's a full-right extreme party." That is why I give you a call for order, Mr Deputies. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner spoke. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: And they also have a corresponding National Council President!]] [[Call out to the liberals: great!]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Ferrero-Waldner: So, that's going too far, isn't it?]] The Minister is now on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13322	Mr President. High house! I have listened very carefully to what has been said here today in the debate on foreign policy. Before addressing the individual speakers, let me briefly make a fundamental point, as it is a budget debate, a comment on the budget. The operating budget of our home without aid from the East, development cooperation and international organisations – the contributions to it – is only about 0.3 percent of the total budget. Despite this relatively small budget, I am absolutely familiar with the budgetary savings measures. But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the many tasks of the House can only be done with an absolutely fully committed staff, and in this context I should like to thank you at the beginning for the kind words in the direction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, above all, in the direction of the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[General condolences.]] Secondly, I believe that at present we are all very concerned about what happened in the Azores, what was possible there, and I also thank you here for all the positive comments that have come from the various sides of the parties represented here in Parliament. In fact, I was very pleased that I succeeded in giving a positive opinion to Austria by six Foreign Ministers, and the tenor, the joint tenor of these six statements, was quite clear: It will finally be time to normalize relations with Austria. But I also have to tell you that when I got there, I was confronted with two questions. I would like to inform you briefly and also to inform you of my answer. One was the question: Aha, Austria has now put an ultimatum on the population survey? – I can tell you, I immediately replied: I am very surprised, where does the question of ultimatum come from? It has never been decided by us that we are putting an ultimatum to the EU. What has been decided is: If there is no movement until Feira, then there is a population survey with a double yes, on the one hand a yes to the European Union and, of course, a yes to abolish these sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have also been confronted there with a statement by the President-in-Office of the Council, the Portuguese Foreign Minister, Gama, who has spoken of the fact that I would, as it were, carry out an abuse of the informal Council because I would raise the question of Austria there. I have also rejected this absolutely, and I have also done so in the session, in the discussion, that is before Gama, because I think that the bilateral measures have been named as such but, at the same time, have, of course, been pronounced within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency and have even been named on Portuguese presidency paper. Well, it's not that simple! I would also like to say that there is no mention of a junkim in this context at all – even this was mentioned here in the discussion – by no means. Just, please, it is natural for us all to make every effort to ensure that sanctions are brought to an end as soon as possible. The people, ladies and gentlemen, are tired, they are really satisfied that sanctions are still being imposed on them. It is really not that there is a junkim, but we have to show, if not otherwise, that the population is naturally behind this government and is opposed to the sanctions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Let me say one more thing, on the part of the Foreign Minister, who believes that it is actually enough: I think it really will be time – and I therefore appeal to you once again, the opposition parties – to act together as Austria abroad, just as almost all other countries do. I think now would be the moment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In some cases, I hear a little bit of joy that some have already made negative statements. I tell you very clearly what happened: A thought process has begun, and I think that is positive. We must use the time – I hope together – until the Feira European Council, because I believe you too must say that the Austrian people are no longer willing to carry on and accept these sanctions. And so I have told our colleagues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I showed myself there quite openly. I have not mentioned any major proposals for solutions; it is a whole series already in the discussion. I hope, however, that it will be possible to enter into a real consultation process in the next few days and weeks in order to have, so to speak, a start to the exit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from this topic, as you know, Austrian foreign policy has a very special focus this year, which is not yet available here, and that is the OSCE Presidency. This is extremely important and gives us the opportunity to profile us as Austria, because today it is especially the conflict prevention, but also the reworking of conflicts, which we all recognized as a very important topic of foreign policy. You know – I do not want to do this in detail, because you already know – that I have put special emphasis on the Balkans, especially in Kosovo, where there is still a very difficult situation, but of course also in Chechnya, where we are currently dealing with the perhaps most difficult situation, and in the future in other areas of Central Asia, but also in the Caucasus, in which I have already made two trips. Let me say to Kosovo that I am actually very confident that local elections to which registration is currently taking place can be carried out even if there is still a problem, namely that the Serbs currently do not want to participate in the elections. We are still trying to get the Serbs to register and participate in the elections, because this would be extremely important for Kosovo itself. All who live there should take their fate into their own hands. The second thing I would like to say is, of course, Chechnya. You know that I was there that basically green light was given by the political side, by Putin and Ivanov, and by the way, it is currently being negotiated in the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This OSCE mission is a very sensitive mission, it is by no means a simple mission. We must also bear the responsibility for the safety of our people and therefore negotiate the best possible arrangements. But I am confident that we will succeed soon and that we will be able to return with it. As far as Central Asia is concerned, I intend to visit all five countries of Central Asia in the near future, if I can. You know, one is the drug issue, drug crime, and the other is a regional economic issue, and we are trying to address the question of water distribution. In the context of the European Union, of course, not only is the issue of sanctions important, but of course the content is also important. The main content is the Intergovernmental Conference, which you know is that we want to go further, that we are in principle quite positive about extending majority decisions and only want to resort to unanimity decisions in specific, sensitive cases. I would like to thank you here for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. April, who was grateful to the Federal Government for its support in terms of water resources. You know, otherwise we advocate that we have the right to the nomination of a Commissioner, and just now it becomes clear how important this will actually be, because the small states simply need to be able to identify themselves. We want to make a major adjustment to the weighting of votes, but we also want to allow beyond these so-called left-overs on the question of so-called flexibility or enhanced cooperation that, at all events, a group of states can move forward if there is a chance that the remaining group will be able to follow in the future – something that has been identified, for example, in the Euro-11 group or in the Schengen Group. It is also important for us, of course, that the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which I would like to have referred to here, which Austria will also make proposals for. As far as enlargement is concerned, it is right that we want to move forward quickly, but at the same time, of course, Austrian interests will be cautious. A paper was also sent to the European Union yesterday by Austria to show how the real situation is with regard to the free movement of persons, and simply to put the problems on the table, but also to find appropriate solutions. I would also like to refer briefly to the two Austrians who have been mentioned here, namely Mr Hirschmugl and Mr John. Yes, I have actually committed myself very much to the return of these two prisoners in Cuba, and you know why? – Because, first of all, the way in which procedures are carried out there is different from ours, second, the level of punishment is much higher, and third, because I use it for every Austrian. And I think that's really important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] As regards the question of the NGOs here of the... – I can tell you that a private sum has been fixed by the court, which of course must be paid by the defendant. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: What about the victims?]] You don't need to take care of the victims. I think you should be more concerned about the Austrians who have come to a very, very difficult situation there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] When I think of Mr. Hirschmugl: A 25-year-old student who had a car accident. A car accident can happen to anyone. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: With a deadly exit!]] – However, with fatal outcome, I know; there were five people. I can tell you that I have carefully negotiated the case, and I am grateful to my colleague in Cuba for having shown so much understanding. I'll tell you that, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Development cooperation in general. Mrs Lunacek! You know that the so-called budget execution last year made 850 million schilling for development cooperation. I have only taken a 100 million reduction in the negotiations despite severe cuts – you know – but I have made the sacrifice that many other things in my house, which can also be paid, are currently not possible, such as, for example, the repairs of the embassy buildings alone; many of the offers we had had to be taken back. You always have to see things in the context. The reduction is currently about minus 9 percent. That, I think, is really tolerable under the circumstances. You know that I will do everything I can – I mean – when it is possible to go higher, of course. I would also like this to be done, because this also concerns the question of globalisation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The last point I would like to make is: In a comprehensive presentation yesterday, I addressed the major objectives of my foreign policy in the foreign policy society and put people at the centre of foreign policy. This is also reflected in the concept of human security, the so-called human security, for which I will travel to Lucerne in the morning, in order to continue the issue of human rights education with the group of States that have joined forces within the framework of the UN. That too is something that is of importance both to Austria and to the whole world. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13437	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13458	Mr President. High house! Of course, I take note of the efforts made by Mrs Foreign Minister in the Azores with respect. However, we have to ask ourselves whether efforts in the field of foreign policy alone will prove to be sufficient. We also need to know that all the problems are internal policy, which then have their impact in foreign policy. Minister! Of course, you also have to be respected with respect – probably you were also addressed in the countless discussions –: What is your standing in this Federal Government? If you look at the list of statements: It ranges from the unsuccessful President Chirac to the corrupt Belgian government to the west pocket Napoleon. – By the way, I would be interested in how you translate this into French or English when asked in German: Mrs. Minister, what does Western Bags-Napoleon mean? – The veto threats, the threats with the popular survey, the threats with "Let's exclude ourselves from the EU!", the statements about the euro – this is a series of statements made by people whose party is in your government. I am not talking about Minister Schmid, who has also spoken in this regard on Easter enlargement and on other issues. What to do You there? How do you feel about this? That is a crucial question, because this is the key to the solution, please, because that is, of course, the core of the debate, which cannot be dim. But I know what the problem of the Freedom Party is. – Madam Minister, you will probably agree with me. – If haider and others become more silent, they decide to provoke less domestically, then one can formally observe in the polls how the consent is getting smaller and less and less. This is, of course, fatal for the FPÖ à la longue, because the project failed to take part in the government. But Haider and other his competitors in the FPÖ are getting louder and louder, and the government coalition is going into the air. And this is always the basic dilemma of this government: That the FPÖ must continue to try to spread this complicated space between the various complex constituencies that FPÖ has apparently gathered together with its unscrupulous policy. On the basis of this problem, this ultimately has an impact on foreign policy. As far as you are concerned, you need, of course, the support of the entire Federal Government, not the silence of the liberal part when these statements are made. They have to dissociate themselves. You also, of course, need the support of your Federal Chancellor, Mrs Foreign Minister, especially on the question of the threat of the popular survey, and he has been taken hostage by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Don't worry!]] One question, Mr Klubobmann Khol – you are one of the most creative in the ÖVP group – could you answer: What about the popular survey? What if the poll is over? They make themselves up and say: Let's do a popular survey! [[Abg. Fischl: You know exactly what's going on afterwards! You've been thinking about it for a long time!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In reality, you want to make this tax-money-closure project because you know very well yourself that you are on 3rd. No vote for this black and blue government constellation on October. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So stand down and say, in a "no-na! question": If you want to continue on Sunday a Wiener Schnitzel or no more, should we ban it? That's a "no-na! questioning." Do you want to get a legitimation for this government constellation? – That’s why we’re thinking about it. [[Abg. Young: That obviously hurts you, otherwise you wouldn't talk about it for so long!]] But you don't think any longer, you don't think a millimeter further, which means when that happens. By the way, "NEWS" has published today a Gallup survey showing that the majority of Austrians have looked through this and do not want this popular survey at all. I'm just telling you this so that your populism euphoria, which has developed there, will be dampened a little. People's surveys are for you, indeed, creeds. If the percentage of those behind your project goes down, your enthusiasm will be dampened. This question, Mrs Minister, has to be answered to me: What do you answer if one of your next meetings in the EU asks the question, what is the solution if the poll is on the table? – It does not solve the basic dilemma, and the basic dilemma is the FPÖ. [[Abg. Young: Maybe it will trigger a thoughtful process with you!]] What else would interest me, Minister: They meet a minister of another country, and he says: Greetings, Mrs. Minister! How's the President of the Federal Republic? Is he still hump or is he already dumped? – Translation Here you go! What do you say? This has consequences up to abroad. I am sorry if I have to say that, and I am sorry, especially for the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and for Austria, if that... [[Abg. Fischl: Anxious and compassionate!]] Mr. Kabas must obviously be in war with the consonants and vowels or have logory, or he makes it aware or he is simply too cowardly, or, as Haider would say, he is not man enough to sit down and say: Yes, I have said that the Federal President is a lump and a shame for Austria. – He's not man enough for that! That's it, and that's really what to criticize from your side. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Jörg Haider will probably have called him, and if you ask him today, he will say: Yeah, he said to me, Labas, Labas, you're a hip! He will probably have said this because he has decided to introduce a new language culture here, where you have to go for a search: Where do the consonants really belong? The position of the consonants and the vowels is no longer logical. It's now in demand to start looking for them. When the liberals speak, go with a cup and shake the consonants and vowels, and if you're lucky, you'll find out what they really said. That seems to be your language culture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the logic of their syntax is more regretful. This is more unfortunate. I'll take it when you say, Haider resigns, but he's the boss. - That's okay. Well, I have to think about how I'm doing, but I'm kind of fine. But it's more serious when you say: A racist election campaign is not a racist campaign. It's the sun, but it's dark. We're sitting here in the plenary room, but there's no meeting. Mr Fischl sits there, has curved the elbow, has supported the head on the elbow – but he really does not. He's not sitting here at all. He doesn't have a heavy head because he's thinking. All right, I get that. What are these logics? What kind of sentences are these? This is a real problem in the political debate with you! They say a sentence, but the sentence was not like that, and he who said it wasn't, and in the final effect he doesn't call it that. It's virtual. Create a few computers to virtualize more with us! It's no longer a language. Congratulations on this government partner, Mrs. Minister! I understand that this is very difficult, but it also gives you opportunities to stand up in the government. If they can no longer articulate themselves, no longer bring out a broken sentence, bring nothing with the consonants, then just make politics and don't listen to that anymore. At least once this would be a line of confrontation that might bring us forward and perhaps be honoured in the EU. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, unfortunately, my speaking time is ending; I could still deal with you for hours, you supply sources and sources; that is inconceivable –: I have once proposed to hold here a survey on foreign culture policy. To my regret it is also shortened, shortened, shortened, and I ask you whether this should not be considered, even with regard to how the work of the cultural institutions abroad is now being developed. This is also a cultural question, the language culture, but not only that, at all the overall appearance, in general, because this is a real concern to me, how this work is to be designed, how it continues in the foreign cultural field and why it is always shortened there. Is that out of place? Does that have any meaning anymore? - I don't understand. I would really like to respond to this proposal. If you really take it seriously that we want to present ourselves more closely abroad, bring in our cultural identity and really want a dialogue, I ask you to enable this survey that you may even have promised, as I remember, once. Put it on once! We would be pleased, and we can really deal with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13586	Mrs Gatterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13607	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! What Mr Cap has called for for the government, the government has been trying to call on Parliament for some time, namely to support the joint action abroad. For the People's Survey: Whether you are in favour of it or not is a matter of view, only I believe that the cost question cannot play a role. I don't think you've been thinking about how many of you have marched into the demonstrations. That cost a lot of millions of schilling. A democracy must have this money. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 37 million!]] – 37 million, I hear. I cannot imagine the fact that the money question is now at once the big question in the People's Survey. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mrs. Minister! You are the first foreign minister in this Republic and a first-class foreign minister! This has also been confirmed by all previous speakers, and it includes much more than your purely ministerial activity. I would remind you of the cultural institute and, above all, of your presidency in the OSCE. It must be said that all colleagues also have great respect at international level for your work as Chairman of the OSCE. In addition to that, warm congratulation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am personally very sorry that the sanctions of the 14 have overshadowed, overshadowed foreign policy for months and focused all our attention only on this situation. We are asked again and again: Is there another ice age now, or after three months of quiet diplomacy from you and also from your excellent employees already in the Tauwetter period? I think we must all be very pleased that – as Klubobmann Khol has formulated it – a real improvement for Austria in the EU has been achieved with the Azores High, and there is a first step in rethinking the sanctions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The Azores High is unfortunately so unsteady!]] – The Azores high has after all brought some big cracks in the ice and made the ice somewhat thinner. I am very confident. There are also an increasing number of politicians – many have already been quoted today, for example, the chairman of the Federal Foreign Committee in Germany, Klose – and say that this does not correspond to the European spirit, which does not correspond to the European Treaties. I therefore think that it would be time for the Heads of Government of the 14 to ask themselves whether it is really compatible with the basic values of the EU if the governments of 14 Member States had the dialogue with the 15th. The Member State simply refuses to do so. Yesterday was Europe's day. He was able to see Commissioner Fischler give an excellent speech on Europe's day. He also pointed out that Europe and the EU are the cradle of democracy. But is not the basis of the democracy of dialogue? Why do the 14 refuse this dialogue with Austria? The Heads of Government must ask themselves the question: Do these sanctions damage Austria or do they not harm the EU in the long term? And thirdly, the Heads of Government should also ask themselves: Do these sanctions damage the government – really only the government – or do they not damage the population primarily? – In my opinion, the population is the main affected, and everyone who contests it does not say the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But another circumstance is affecting me. I would also like to mention, in this foreign-political budget debate, the largest European or European supporter Alois Mock, who has not been in this foreign-political debate for the first time for decades. He was, as we know, a champion of EU accession together with our Federal Chancellor Schüssel. But the biggest supporters of the EU vote were the young people who have said to Europe, the artists who have said that we must go to Europe, the entrepreneurs who have said that we cannot remain isolated, and, of course, the scientists who have said that there must be a common Europe. And I think it must make all of us particularly concerned and think that I think these groups are the most affected by the sanctions. Of course, others were also for accession, otherwise there would not be the results of the election with two-thirds majority, but these groups were really the champions! [[Abg. The workers!]] It must be noted that there is a policy of 14, which has partly triggered an anti-Austria hysteria, which simply overshadows the cultural, sporting or interpersonal relationships. There are cancellations of events, Austrians are invited, Austrian artists can no longer come to certain events, until the bomb threat – you can remember – at the concert of the Vienna Philharmonic in Paris. Entrepreneurships are required to demonstrate how they have chosen to decide whether they can continue to be business partners. And of course one asks whether applications from Austrians should be further supported or the sanctions say that we do not support Austrian applications. - I'm wondering: Does this concern the government or does it concern individual citizens? But the worst thing for me is the area of youth. In all our reports – Mr Schiederer knows this from the countless reports and demands in the Council of Europe, for example, where we are thinking about what we can do for children in Kosovo or how the situation of children in Chechnya is – we are explaining everywhere, we need to create a basis for young people to learn tolerance, to sit at a table with others. And now the Austrian youth learns: You're not welcome because you're Austrian! – So it hurts me personally. I also have to report that many students are already saying: I don't apply for an international organization anymore, I don't have a chance because I'm an Austrian! – No one here in this House can feel obliged to do everything in order to remove the sanctions! I think the young people suffer very much. You saw that in the report yesterday: Many exchange programmes are not cancelled, but young people feel unwelcome. This concerns young people on both sides. The report was specifically about a visit to France. The participants have been interviewed, and the host parents have said: My kids said don't talk about it. Don't talk about the Austrian situation. – The Austrian student said: I don't know what to do, and the French woman said: I'm not sure how to deal with the students. – That’s the worst thing, that’s a mortgage for the future that we impose on young people to get some political change for us, especially from the opposition side! I have to say, I'm very surprised. I appreciate Mr Gusenbauer. As Juso chief, he must know that the young people who want to go out to Europe who want to go to the world are the most affected. That's what I'm wondering. His friends in Paris have proved to be friends or party friends in a double sense. If that's all that came out, I'll ask myself: Wasn't that more party friends? I refer to an interview in the "Mitagsjournal" of 28th November. April with the chairman of the Socialist Party Gusenbauer, in which he said literally: "If the Austrian opposition were to close, it would not increase credibility in the EU, but our partners in Europe would rightly ask what happened to Austrian social democracy." - Quote. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's the point!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: First comes the party!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Without a party, you're nothing!]] That's what I'm asking myself: What's more? Are you more afraid of the loss of face with your colleagues abroad or are you concerned about the interests of Austria and the Austrian population? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have to say in the final effect: The visit of Alfred Gusenbauer to France, one day after the glamour of our foreign minister, basically torpedoed her efforts and, in my opinion, Austria did not help. And on his proposal to use the Observatory against Xenophobia and racism as a virtue watchman over Austria, I must ask: How do I explain to my child, be polite and greet? What happened there contradicts all good habits. The ideological prejudgment that took place there was unprecedented for me! I would like to point out that the Chairman of this EU Observatory Jean Kahn in an article in the French press, for example: Four years ago I was in Austria, but on the brown snow I would never ski! – This is really a observation point for racism – in the truest sense of the word! I think that we must do everything we can and everyone is invited to support the Federal Government's action plan so that we can re-establish the image of Austria – the crutch that is currently in existence in Europe. A picture of Europe without Austria is unimaginable to me!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13752	Mr Pilz is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13773	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First, I put forward a motion for a resolution against the background of the flood disaster in Mozambique. [[Quoted print version removed]] There are still a few "small things" in the world, which are a trace more important than the Sanctions Theatre, which is once again completed, and to point out that this motion for a resolution is also intended to serve. Perhaps an shoulder closure can be made with the victims in Mozambique! This would also be a good thing for the majority in this House. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Fight the sanctions, then there is no theatre!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP and the Freeman: What does "Sanctionstheater" mean?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You're making a Sanctions Theatre!]] On the sanctions themselves, ladies and gentlemen. They celebrated an Azores high and had to note that there was not even a day later another Germany-low, a Sweden-low and others. This is at best a political April weather, but purely meteorologically certainly an improvement compared to an dawning ice age. Everything indicates that the 14 Member States of the European Union are interested in not finding a way out, as you put it, but in developing a solution for the future that includes the Republic of Austria. And this is quite different from a path of escape from something one has long regretted, but it is a serious attempt to do something about it, what exists and what all the political parties in all the Member States of the European Union have a minimum degree of internal European legal certainty in any similar form of government in the future. We won't be the closest. The next question of this kind may arise in Italy, and the European Union is well advised if it does not re-enter a response from current outrage, but creates common policy rules in good time, including Austria. That can't be rules of the 14 or 13, that can only be rules of the 15. And that is exactly what the Member States of the European Union have been signaling in a variety of terms for weeks. There's the way out! Everyone who deals with foreign policy and the interests of the Republic of Austria in a serious way knows that, with the start of work on a regulatory work, on a European regulatory framework and legal framework of this kind, there is also for the first time the possibility of suspending sanctions against the Austrian Federal Government. And this is exactly where the European discussion process is going. What is the reaction of Austrian foreign policy and government groups? – There is nothing to be done to achieve this point as soon as possible and then to submit a serious proposal for the abolition of sanctions! It is not proposed as we move forward more quickly towards a European Constitution, a European Charter and a parliamentary competence of the second and third pillars – because these will all be co-conditions; that will be a common process – but there will be an ultimatum! That's what it says: It's Brussels, we're victims, and as a victim, we have the right to mobilize all of Austria against you now. This is a short-term action, because no one can specify what happens when, as it turns out, only a minority of the Austrian eligible population goes to this survey and of which probably a high percentage – whatever questions are asked – and I hope they will be answered with yes when they get so far. Yeah, and then what? What's going on Monday after that? What if Brussels and London and Berlin and Lisbon don't explain, okay, we capitulate before the Austrian People's Survey and take everything back with the expression of regret? What if that doesn't happen? What is the next step? – Then something has to happen, then a political chain reaction has been launched. What does the Foreign Minister do, and then what does the Federal Chancellor do? Will they just say: Well, we tried it, unfortunately the message did not arrive in Brussels; let us forget it! Next time we'll try it again! If we don't get anywhere, well, then we'll do a popular survey, and if it doesn't, then it was nothing!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or does the Grasser’s, Haider’s and already a bit of a bowl’s threat come, then to use its own possibilities in the European Union somewhat destructively and growingly destructively? These are the questions, Mrs Bundesminister, which you should actually answer for a long time in public. It is a pity that you are not asking these questions about a constructive European solution and the abandonment of putting them at the head of the Federal Government in a popular survey case – because that is exactly what it is: a popular survey case. It is precisely these explanations and answers that stand out! That is why – perhaps less you as a person, but other members and non-members of the Federal Government – not only are you members of the opposition in this House, with growing rights that you are less and less concerned with foreign policy, less and less about Europe, less and less about fair mechanisms and procedures, but more and more about domestic policy profits. It's true: The Austrian People's Party especially benefits from the integration of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's neither good nor bad, it's a fact. The fact is that, since this first fact is known, the tone of the Federal Chancellor has changed overnight. Of a winery "We have been wronged, the European model student has been punished and made a sacrifice!" the change over the night has taken place to the threatening, attacking and mobilizing chancellor. And now someone tells me that has something to do with European development. It's pure domestic policy! Mrs. Federal Minister! They will have to decide as the entire federal government must decide. There is also a growing willingness to engage in dialogue among the 14 Member States of the European Union from their own political problems, which the 14 have created with the sanctions – that is also a fact. It is not just looking for a way out but for a solution and progress in the European integration process. You only have two options: Either a productive and committed Austrian participation – then I would have expected a statement from you that you are giving up, for example, the blockade of Austria in relation to an indictable European constitution in Strasbourg and Brussels. Then I would have expected you to finally give up blocking the parliamentaryisation of the second and third pillars together with other followers of the agreement process. But maybe have It really chose the other to remove maximum domestic capital from the sanctions. As an experienced European politician, you know exactly what will remain under the rule: The pace will then at some point – at the latest on the day of the popular survey – not indicate you, but the anti-Europeans in your government. If you continue this course – and that's a either-or, there's no in between! – then go step by step on a free line. Mrs. Federal Minister! The decision has not yet been made in this Republic, in this Federal Government and in this House. You are quite right in a different sense: The doors are more open in Europe than they were a few weeks ago. But you will have to draw some conclusions, change some attitudes and make a productive proposal yourself to make it really open. In the interests of this Republic and this House, I would like us to be able to report for the first time on a real Azores High, Brussels or Strasbourg High. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13899	The next speaker was Mr Jung. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e13920	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's foreign policy is currently in a difficult situation to oppose legal and unproven accusations from 14, as we have always been told to have to defend friends of states who believe it is wrong to be able to interfere in internal Austrian issues. The Austrian government has so far reacted to this in an intrusive, calm and determined manner, and that has been the case. However, it is all the more outrageous – and for the vast majority of Austrians, too, incomprehensible – that in this difficult time between the parties for the defence of Austrian interests cannot be concluded in this country, but that, on the contrary, even by means of foreign activities and word reports by leading social democrats, who are apparently unable to overcome the loss of power and the loss of the government's position, has not been heated up and even triggered. The President-in-Office, too, has played a very unfortunate role in this development, and I say this in respect of his office. Mr Schieder has just gone out. [[Abg. Arbitrators who just want to leave the hall hear this and come back.]] - Ah, now he's coming back, he's heard me. I would like to address something, Mr President, as far as you are concerned, and I do not want to do so behind your back. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] You are someone – and I believe you are a lot of honest efforts – who is particularly outraged when the names Stockholm, Berlin, Berne and Strasbourg are mentioned in the context of the fact that after meetings there are always "at random" – this impression is increasing every time – difficulties, criticism of Austrian statements and word reports against Austria appear. I was now in Amman last week with Mr Kurzmann, among others, at the IPU Conference, the Interparliamentary Union Conference. On the third day of the conference – Mr. Kostelka was just "at random", Mr. Schieder was not present "at random" – Mr. Gjelleroed, also a Social Democratic, who is responsible for that report in Strasbourg, in which against Austria, especially against the Freedom Party, but also against other small countries, was polemized to the speaker's desk, misused a word message as a representative of someone else and moved against Austria into the field. The representatives of the Social Democrats were not present "at random". However, Mr. Schieder came to the lecture hall shortly thereafter with the manuscript of Mr. Gjelleroed. – Mr Commissioner Schieder! Even if these are all coincidences, these coincidences are slowly becoming too many for me! This is all the more so when I spoke to Mr Gjelleroed and asked him what his famous report is all about, whether he was in Austria, whether he spoke with representatives of the accused. – Mr Gjelleroed said that he had taken this from the newspapers. Mr. Schieder! Such reports are being distributed against Austria, and you were not there ready to oppose them decisively! And then you will be surprised if, as you have mentioned this morning, we discover our distrust of the Presidency abroad and say that it cannot continue! If the chairmen feel not as representatives of Austria but as representatives of a party, then they will have to think about it. The majority of you and your party in Austria no longer represent you, Mr. Schieder – and not together with the Greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: May I make an intermediate call?]] - When it's fast. [[Abg. Schieder: Mr Gjelleroed has not opposed Austria, he has spoken against the FPÖ! Just against the FPÖ!]] – No, against this country that tolerates a racist and so on government. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Only against the FPÖ!]] No, that's not true, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Oh yes!]] I also have the protocol. With all calmness and restraint towards these 14 states, many of which, as we know, have been involuntarily in the French and Belgian boycott cases or have even been forced to do so, there has now been a time to act clearly and firmly and to make it clear by actions that we do not continue to let this happen with us. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Austrian policy and therefore also this House are not sufficiently involved in the EU's information flow and thus in the decision-making process, Austria cannot take these decisions and not take them into account. This is a logical consequence and has absolutely nothing to do with a veto threat, as you would like to present and discredit it. We therefore hope, particularly in the light of the Council's response to the Azores, that the 14 will have a gradual understanding. But we must not let ourselves be lured into a trap again, which is called "bad Europeans". Whoever says no for well-founded self-interest – not because of Justament’s stand – and does not take everything unconditionally, what Brussels requires, is therefore not a bad European! The poor Europeans are those who want to intervene in these states from Paris or elsewhere in national affairs, especially in smaller countries, and do not accept voters' decisions, because they and their sanctions feed Europe's scepticism in this Europe and not we Austrians! It would therefore be wrong to refrain from imposing claims on the enlargement issue, only to be regarded as a European preferred student. There is a well-known book title, which reads: "Good girls come to heaven, bad everywhere." – Turned into the EU area, it could be said: The good Europeans are praised and allowed to pay, those who are stubborn receive the money and enforce their interests. Ladies and gentlemen! We are here to preserve Austrian interests and not to be good. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This includes not least that possible Easter expansion does not rush, but runs in orderly conditions. And as we imagine an orderly and acceptable form of enlargement, we need to get in time in the negotiations. We must not hide ourselves, just as this is now demanded of us in many places. If we only raise our votes shortly before the signing of the agreement, then our southern and south-eastern European neighbours will no longer be able to respond to it and would then be rightly upset. The issue of enlargement is not only about labour, migration and transit, but also about other issues, as Mr Schweitzer has already mentioned, namely environmental and nuclear energy policy. In the Government Convention, we deliberately refrained from putting a junkim in the window for certain demands. [[Abg. Großruck: A "young-tim?"]] But those who believe that they can derive from the fact that we have become knee-fed and only give up on legitimate claims, concerns and claims because of a government participation are very serious. [[Abg. Oils: Jawoll!]] Another area that is sensitive to the good neighborhood is that of Beneš decrees and AVNOJ decisions, which still justify the expulsion, expropriation and even murder of millions of people, just because their mother tongue was German, provisions that still have an impact on the people living in these countries today. We Austrians – including you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – can listen there, and not the Federal Republic of Germany, we Austrians bear special responsibility for these people! They have been part of Austria for centuries or have been called by Austria, such as the Swabians, to make areas devastated in the Turkish wars fertile again. They were not colonialists who gained their wealth from slave labor or the expulsion and murder of locals, as happened in the British, Belgian or French colonies, but they worked it out with their hands. Their expulsion, expropriation and in part murder in the years 1944 and 1945, which were still valid until today, is wrong which we will not accept! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are not primarily concerned with financial reparation. The exporting countries themselves have done a serious economic damage with these measures. However, we are very much concerned with admitting moral injustice and giving satisfaction to those who are still alive and their families, like others who have been bitterly wronged by members of our people in the last century, who are also rightly demanding it for themselves. In conclusion and in summary, I would like to say the following. We stand by the signed EU treaties. However, we cannot be treated as pariahs of this community. We want a further development of the Union, but not least through recent experience, we do not want to undermine state rights. State government, not state is our goal! We have the right, the task and the duty to preserve, first and foremost, Austrian interests in this process, for which my party always knows and what it will do in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14078	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I now give the floor to the next speaker, Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14102	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Foreign Minister! You said earlier that things had to be seen in the context. I think that all that is now happening at European level through sanctions is exactly what – and you will give me the right, I believe – leads to a connection between what is happening in Austria and the reactions of foreign countries. I would like to quote – I think that is totally unwarranted – Mr Strasser, the Minister of the Interior, who gave an opinion on this in a "Kurier" interview. Quote: "The Minister of the Interior is taking care of the perception of the attitude of the Austrians towards immigrants, refugees and asylumists in foreign media. The title story of the 'economist'... states that immigrants in Austria are generally perceived as'smarots' and as 'risk to stability'." Strasser also said: "What can politicians do about it? ... You've got to be mindful of the culprits. This applies to all layers, to all parties." I would now like to relate to the debate we have held here today, to the calls for orders issued by the Presidents today. The FPÖ was called "foreign" and "racial". I now ask the MEPs from the ÖVP or also the foreign minister what they would say, for example, what Mrs Partik-Pablé said about black Africans or even President Prinzhorn about hormones for foreigners, or what happened in the Vienna election campaign. As long as there is no actual change in the Freedom Party, as long as we are threatened by these sanctions abroad, and for so long nothing will change in the current situation. I find that very, very unfortunate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But now on another issue, on development cooperation. I know, Mrs Foreign Minister, that you are also particularly committed to this. However, I have a review report from the OSCE from 1998 on development cooperation, which shows that Austria was 16. The place of the OSCE countries and the last place in the EU countries is that of financial resources for development cooperation. Mrs. Foreign Minister! They also supported a petition in December, calling for the funding for bilateral project and programme assistance not to be reduced but, on the contrary, to be gradually increased. Over the next four years, these funds will be increased by 250 million schilling each. I must say now that, despite all efforts, the funds for bilateral aid have been reduced to 744.5 million schilling plus the 30 million for mine victims – which is, of course, very positive that they are being used. We must be aware, if we see that in the overall context, that we are not fulfilling our mission in the international donor community, and that for a few years. What will be the case over the year 2000 in the OSCE report on Austria's contribution to development cooperation will, I think, be very, very worrying, because, so to speak, we have reduced the 0.22 percent we have paid in 1998 – and that was the lowest contribution since 1990. Another point, which has been highly criticised – you know – is the fact that in recent years, in order to check out how low our financial services actually are in the EZA, three components have been included in the EZA funds: refugee aid in Austria, the indirect study space costs for students from developing countries and the expenditure on export credits. As far as I am concerned with fiscal consolidation, we still have to consider the form in which we meet international commitments; Commitments which we have entered into and which we are very closely observed by foreign countries. There is an additional problem: This long-term crisis situation is very stressful for the officials of Section VII. I would like to thank you at this point for the work being done there. I know that it is always difficult when the financial resources have to be reclassified. On the other hand, the non-governmental organisations also have major problems – confirming all the managing directors – if they have to expect losses from year to year. This means the loss of credibility among qualified partners and staff and credibility, especially among the partners in the south. If this reduction policy – I fear it for next year – is actually being continued, some of these organisations will not be able to survive. The share received by these organisations fell from 44.9% to 34.2 percent between 1994 and 1998, while the share of companies and commercial organisations increased from 22.4 percent to 30.8 percent during the same period. This means that there is also a redistribution away from the NGOs to the companies. Finally, you have to ask yourself the question: If we want non-governmental organisations, do we want them to survive and that they can also continue their qualified work? – They can only do that because there are very dedicated people working there. Or say, We do not want these organizations! I fear that, in fact, as in other areas, if I think only of civil servants, an attack on these civil society, which is not always convenient, is taking place, that these organisations, because they also bring criticism, are ultimately threatened budgetaryly. Now, if I'm just thinking about the increased postage charges for newspapers, I have to say, That too is something that these organizations will meet in a massive way. If it's said: Well, for donations you can continue to make broadcasts!, then you have to remember that all international experiences show that you can only collect donations to a large extent for disasters or for poor starving children, but not for democratic development projects, for women projects or for other projects that do not directly address donors. Finally, before I put forward a motion for a resolution, I would like to say that the question arises again and again: Development cooperation – do we need this in view of the budgetary situation at all? – For me, development cooperation is only a small percentage of reimbursement, reparation for what the countries of the South lose each year through unfair commodity prices, unfair world trade structures and indebtedness. Finally, these countries contribute to the prosperity of the industrialized countries, and it is therefore only right and reasonable that we fulfil at least our mission, namely good development cooperation. It is about eliminating the most depressing poverty in the south and also about preventing conflicts, wars and migration. This also has an impact on the global situation and, above all, on the situation in the industrialized countries, including us. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14221	The motion for a resolution which has just been notified is sufficiently supported and is therefore also being debated. The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14245	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I get to the Causa, I can congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, and express our appreciation. How you do your work for Austria is exemplary, is professional. They represent the concerns of Austria competent, committed, patriotic and especially charming! Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also get rid of a pleasant duty: All over my constituency – that is the district of Grieskirchen in the Hausruckviertel in Upper Austria – the people say to me: Judge the Federal Minister, we are enthusiastic about her, about how she represents the concerns of Austria as she appears, in what quality! I would like to have done this on behalf of the majority of my constituency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm convinced: Just as committed, as you represent Austria abroad, you also represent the interests of your department in the administration, in the diplomatic service, in development aid. They represent not only the interests of Austria as President of the OSCE, but also do not hesitate to travel to crisis areas, even in view of the danger that something may happen, in the case of Chechnya, for example, in order to promote human rights, respect for the minimum rights of citizens. This too, I believe, is particularly important and deserves our highest consideration. With you – you can see – the foreign policy is in the best hands! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not want to address the budget figures, anyone who is willing to read and understand can read them, but I would like to comment briefly on the sanctions of the EU-14, as announced, on the Causa fine. Ladies and gentlemen! It's undisputed, all the newspapers reported: We have received signals, especially from the countries of the north, that the sanctions have been sought from Austria. "Ask"! I can't dance, but the "Danish Tagblatt" says: "Østrig bathed herself for EU boycott." I suppose that's what anyone can translate: "Austria itself asked for the EU boycott." Ladies and gentlemen! Two names are mentioned in this context: the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil, but above all also Altbundeskanzler Klima. Federal President Dr. Kletil has probably followed the best exit strategy by giving a flaming speech to the European Parliament for the abolition of sanctions and a credible representation of Austria's interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am still missing this from the opposition parties, in particular the SPÖ, because it is obviously an action of the united socialist cooperative of Europe against Austria. We only need to look at your recent party meeting. Who did you invite? Mr. Sharping was there, Prime Minister Persson was there. What did they do? You said via media, in interviews: The sanctions remain, we will not remove them! Have a nice time. You listen to those sounds, at least it happened to me. Ladies and gentlemen! If you invite politicians from Europe, who here in Austria – and I say almost under the abuse of hospitality – justify the sanctions and suggest that they should remain, then Mr Gusenbauer will not be taken away from taking his journeys to the European brotherly countries seriously. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have remained guilty of the evidence that you seriously believe that the Boycott measures against Austria should be lifted. And you know very well that you do not represent the opinion of the people, the Austrians. The vast majority are in favour of immediate and rapid abolition because it considers EU sanctions to be pointless, leading to nothing and counterproductive and because no Austrian has deserved to be sanctioned by any EU country. With the entry of the liberals into the government, it has only changed that we are willing to implement the necessary reforms that have taken place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would mention, for example, the Swiss. The Swiss are not suspected of being tense in front of some kind of car. I quote from a Swiss weekly newspaper, "The Bridge Builder", so that it is also mentioned, in which the National Council Claude Frey, Vice-President of the Foreign Policy Commission, writes: "Nothing in the government programme of the new Austrian government speaks against respect for human rights. Not to mention that the new Federal Chancellor is a friend of Switzerland and was one of the most important architects of the bilateral treaties. ... The EU's position on this issue is unacceptable. The EU willfully turn against our neighbours and seriously violate the democratic rules. Nothing justifys prejudicing a democratically elected government." Then a survey has been carried out by this newspaper: "Sol,Bern' Federal Chancellor Schüssel received?" A week later – I quote –: "Last survey: Should ‘Bern’ German Chancellors receive a dish?’ – "4,741" Calls entered this newspaper – which is a representative cross-section: "Yes: 89.5 percent, no: 10.5 percent." This is the result of Switzerland. And now, of course, the European Socialists know that the mood in their countries is quite different from that of their governments. There, too, the population recognises that the EU's sanctions against Austria are absurd, reckless, counterproductive and are more damaging to the EU's idea. I am convinced that not Austria will suffer damage due to these sanctions, but – if an exit strategy is not found soon – the EU-14 itself will suffer the greatest image damage. Austria is a country that highly appreciates the values of the European Union, which are tolerating what is reaching human kindness. There are slippers there and there in every country, but to take a whole country hostage, that is unheard of and that belongs to end, ladies and gentlemen! Admit yourself to this, and do not open a new travel agency, which means: Gusenbauer Navigation ToursGesmbH, which may bring you to Havana or Moscow with a Tupolev or an Iljuschin, where you still take soil samples, and then fly back via Phnom Penh and Managua. - Don't rain up! [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is unheard of!]] [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Shame!]] Be ashamed of how you represent Austria abroad and how you defend Austria abroad! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You can be ashamed! Shame or come You get out of here and confess quite openly: We are in favour of abolishing EU sanctions! I haven't heard from you yet, no one has heard that. You're playing an egg dance here and you think something completely different. Easter is over, stop your egg dance! Give a clear commitment to Austria, go here to the speaker's desk and say: The EU sanctions are lifted, they are unjust! Stop it, we have gone astray, dear comrades in Europe! Turn around and return to the European ideas!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14344	Mr Grossruck! The fact that you refer to a party as a "needing gesture" causes me to do so – since I have not yet available the protocol and therefore cannot say the exact text – to draw attention to the fact that I do not think that this appears to be the right form of expression and that, after studying the protocol, I will decide whether or not to give a call for order. I now ask the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger, to your explanations. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14368	Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker once again pointed out with particular precision what this budget debate has been doing today, but this is what has affected the last few weeks and months as a whole: the great culprit of the debate on sanctions, with which every political debate on foreign policy, on the budget, on current social policy, on measures in transport policy is to be struck. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Voggenhuber has started with this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you know Mr. Voggenhuber? Get on your own nose!]] It is precisely this attempt that is being carried out continuously and permanently. That's the point! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you know Mr. Voggenhuber? Speak of this dirt campaign! Take a look at your own door!]] Now we want to focus very briefly on the "External Policy" chapter. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] – I will come to talk about this analysis, as you will get a lot more to hear. But I would like to start by saying – which can never be made clear enough – what the current strategy looks like. The strategy, in particular of the Liberals, but also of the Austrian People's Party, looks like this: As soon as there is only the slightest evidence in the European Union that a serious discussion about the problem with Austria, but in total about the problem of racism in Europe, Haider immediately, and just a few days later, is taking place with a number of insults against all the heads of state who have just come to his mind in the zeal of the beer tent fight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're making fun of yourself!]] Is that a coincidence? The People's Party – the less liberals; they do not want to do so at all – places great emphasis on the fact that there is a common approach to EU-14 measures. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Thank God you know what we want!]] In this rhetorical theatre, which has been unleashed here for months and weeks, one does not take a single step towards what the opposition parties rightly urge. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What do you mean by Parliament!? As a "theater"!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: For the Greens everything is theatre!]] There is a European debate on this subject, which goes much deeper and aims much deeper than some of the FPÖ politicians, who are distinguished by superficial chimp canonades. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Show on my colleague Pilz!]] It is not serious to you – and I would suggest to you here – that there should be a joint action by Austrian parliamentarians, otherwise you would have allowed a debate on the requests of others, otherwise you would have looked at the points on which you could agree. But your demand was so simple that you can only be called more banal, so simple that it just gets over in rhetorical beer table discussions: They're supposed to demand exactly the same thing as we do, then that's all right! Then we would have a big problem. Let us assume that there would be a joint proposal by the Social Democrats, the People's Party, the Free and the Greens on EU-14 measures in Europe. I conclude every bet that it would be a statement of the ex- and now secret party keeper of the liberals, which in turn brought up the debate on sanctions in Europe a week later, perhaps only three days later, by blindly insulting everything that is moving in Europe. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's your strategy, that's your tactics! If you are not even ready to talk about the content of an application, which also contains concerns of the opposition parties, then you can't even tell me that it is only serious with your wish in approaches. It's just a banal rhetorical floss that you're praying down again and again. The media report that the current budget debate is being overshadowed by the debate on EU sanctions. - You brought them here! You have repeatedly started the debate on this subject. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Who said "lump"?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Talk to the cabas once!]] Now, on the subject of foreign policy, this debate is also underway. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Remember what Mr Voggenhuber said!]] Finally, in Europe and also in Austria, you will have to take note of this, and it has been overdue in all states and particularly in some countries; a discussion with racism, with xenophobia, with the problems that Europe also has with its agreement, with Europe having to become a whole group and at the same time see that nationalism is piling up in the population. There are very clear statements on this subject, I can read to you one. That's what it says: "Haider is a fascist thinker in search of the political revolution." That's the statement. I can also say who she is from. She's from Mr. Klubobmann Khol, Monday, 18. ==References====External links==* Official website Is this analysis still valid now, or is it no longer valid? This is a perfectly clear statement, and we have to deal with this picture whether you want it or not. These are the crucial questions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another problem I would like to address is the constant and targeted confusion of the EU-14 measures with the so-called EU sanctions. With this banal, cheap shortening, you just want to make the mood. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you actually understand anything about foreign policy?]] With this banal, cheap cut, things are confused, and the EU Commission has distanced itself from it and has made it clear. You do not want to and must not take note of it, for otherwise you went out of the rhetorical feed with which you want to cover what is going on in the Austrian debate on the basis of your government action. That's the point! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: Mr. Voggenhuber goes around with the gas canister! Talk about Mr Voggenhuber!]] I have another question to ask you, namely the question of how the sanctions really are. I am not going to stop the popularity, ladies and gentlemen, of the liberals and, in part, of the People's Party on this issue. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Once the sanctions are an insanity for tourism, and the whole tourism collapses, one day later the sanctions are not at all, quite the contrary, more Belgian than ever before. The same thing in schools: Once it says: Our poor young people have massive problems in student exchange! Then there is a question answered by Mrs Gehrer, who says: A class – a few days after the formation of government – had problems. I ask you to: Clearness in what you say: either – or! Either the sanctions have harmful effects, or they do not have them. But depending on whether you're at the beer table or under the obligation of truth to claim the opposite, I think it's pretty slow, but certainly for such a cheap shame, but I hope that the population will disappear with time and step by step. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You can only paint black and white!]] At the end. It would be so easy, and I would also like the woman minister, because she really has more than a hard time sucking around in Europe with five knives in the back... – These knives have been thrown by the liberals! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: They're gonna cut her in!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: These are terrible comparisons! What kind of expression is that?]] Let's look at all the shark statements, which is quite obvious and quite clear: This is the ex-Parteiobmann and secret keeper of your party! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: That's incredible! That's great! Shame!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] You think you can bet by volume in terms of precision, but you will not succeed due to your capacities. That's not good, colleague. You'll have to learn that too. It would have been so simple – and I conclude – a clear removal of the liberals from certain statements from the past, a clear acceptance of the fact that the crimes of fascism in this Europe today and in this political situation could have long since caused us Azores Highs or any other weather changes. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Distance yourself!]] However, when a Vienna party day ends with the announcement of the steam roll again, with an advertising steam roll against everything that cannot prove the family tree to the seventeenth member in Austria, then the European partners are confirmed in their negative assessment of what the future of the liberal policy will be. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: So you weren't there! I didn't even see you! Where were you?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not true at all! Where did you get this? That's wrong!]] And that hurts me more than I do as an Austrian. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Schöggl: You have been praised to Vienna! They've been praised from Tyrol!]] I would like to be prepared to make pro-Austrian policy abroad. Come one step to the others!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14775	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14808	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Oswald Spengler published his famous book "The Fall of the Evening Land" in the 1920s. This work is very much in line with the disaster of the First World War and is characterized by the absolute spessimism of the future of those days. Today, if you have carefully followed the statements of some opposition speakers, you have had to gain the impression that the formation of the new federal government is already before the fall of the evening country. SPÖ and Greens have described the foreign political situation of Austria in the darkest colors. But just as Oswald Spengler was wrong when he predicted the destruction of Europe, so are you. This federal government is capable of acting. It is a courageous reform government and has launched the renewal of Austria as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The sanctions of the European Union, the partner countries, as they are called, are – and one can turn it and turn it around as one wants – an unprecedented intervention in the democratic life and the self-understanding of our country. Austria cannot accept that people like a Mr. Moscovici from Paris or Mr. Michel disagree in the internal affairs of our country, as this is undoubtedly a government formation in Austria. In the population – and you know that – there is absolutely no understanding of the quarantine measures taken by foreign governments. People in our country know that the principle of the rule of law has been blatantly violated in imposing sanctions, as set out in Article VI of the EU Treaty for the whole of the Union. The fact that decisions against a Member State are taken without hearing them at all violates any rule of law. Andreas Unterberger analysed the situation in a very remarkable comment in the press. Under the title "Heirs of all countries", he writes – and I quote him literally: "The European Championship at hypocrisy has great days again. For example, Portugal's Prime Minister Guterres makes it clear that it is not a matter of any of the acts of the Government of Vienna, but only of the fact that the FPÖ is leaving it. That the SPÖ must come back to power and that he himself by chance President of the Socialist International, that conceals Guterres shamefully. ..." Then Unterberger writes: "More than that, Thomas Klestil must forget when he travels now. But even this will no longer help Kletil to be credible after it has been shown that it has asked for sanctions against Austria as quickly as possible and publicly as possible. On the other hand, Klestil has not been quoted in any state law firm with a desire, possibly not at all.” ... And hypocrisy also commits arbitrarily by the SPÖ foreign politician when he believes that certain boycott measures do not conform to the European spirit. So this seems to be the case with other boycott measures. Hypocrisy – the new European ‘value’.” - Quote. So so far Andreas Unterberger in the "Presse" of the 8th. March of this year. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I share the assessment of Unterbergers, because it is proof of unprecedented double morality when, for example, a dictator such as Fidel Castro or the new Kreml boss and ex-KGB man Vladimir Putin are justly courted by Western politicians like Schröder or Blair, but Austrian democrats are, so to speak, excluded as a danger to Europe. It should not be surprising that the defamation of Austria will continue at international meetings; Mr Jung has already mentioned an example. For example, at the IPU Congress in Amman last week, a socialist MP from Denmark misused his greeting to evade Austria as racist and xenophobic. Unfortunately, the head of the Austrian delegation, Mr Schieder, has not made any institutions to defend our country and its population. He appeared late in the plenary room after Mr Jung, but gratefully also Mr President Fassleven and I made an outrageous speech to the Danes. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! What we miss with you is that patriotism, as it is natural in Italy. When German Chancellor Gerhard Schröder threatened to impose sanctions on the EU partner states if there were to be a Middle-Right coalition after the next elections in Italy, a storm of disarmament broke out in Italy. All parties, including the left, strongly condemned the interference of Schröders in the internal affairs of Italy. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Right!]] We miss this shoulder clasp with you. You seem to have a party interest. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The state interests, the interests of our people seem to be secondary to you. High house! In this foreign policy debate, however, I want to deal not only with the relationship between Austria and the EU, but also with two neighbouring countries, Slovenia and the Czech Republic. Both states have become democratic states after the collapse of real socialism and want to be incorporated into the EU. However, both states still have laws that are absolutely incompatible with democracy, which is totally incompatible with human rights or minority rights. I mean the Czech Beneš decrees and the former Yugoslav AVNOJ decisions. Czech and Slovenian politicians have repeatedly argued that these racist and discriminatory laws on expropriation and expropriation, which were also a free letter for murder and murder, are no longer in force. The fact is, however, that the Beneš decrees, which the Sudeten Germans declared to be free of birds, are still the legal basis of the Czech Constitution and case law. Also the Slovenian counterpart to that, the AVNOJ decisions, are still in effect. While the Croatian Constitutional Court has recently lifted certain discriminatory provisions, Liège is still standing deaf. Not even the long prepared Austrian-Slovenian cultural agreement has been signed to date. It has so far failed in Slovenian resistance and in the hope that even without this cultural agreement one will get through the rounds. And there is no mention yet of the equality of the German minority in Slovenia with the Italian and Hungarian minority, which have, of course, constitutional minority rights. I would also like to take this opportunity to truly thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for receiving a delegation from our compatriots during your visit to Slovenia and thus giving a clear signal that Austria is taking this minority into account and that is a minority that has not been forgotten. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But also in the Czech Republic, leading politicians stand in a long anti-Austrian tradition, and I do not mean now Václav Havel, who said on a visit to the Federal Republic of Germany, how it can be read that there can be no more negotiations on the Beneš decrees. But if you listen to or read the statements of Zeman or Kavan to the Beneš decrees, you will be reminded of Jan Palacký and his hostile role against Austria at the beginning of this century. It is therefore hardly possible to speak of neighborly relations. If Prague simply suspends the bilateral talks about the Beneš decrees, it is an unkind act that the foreign office should not euphemistically be surprised. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I myself had the opportunity last year to address the Czech Foreign Minister at a CEI meeting to the current problem of Beneš decrees in plenary. Mr Kavan reacted very nervously and meant that the Austrians were constantly disrupting such conferences. The question of the Sudeten Germans, according to the Czech Foreign Minister, has long been resolved with the Federal Republic of Germany. However, the German-Czech declaration, ladies and gentlemen, must not be a prejudice for Austria. In Austria, too, people who have contributed a great deal to the construction of this Republic and whose legitimate interests the new Austrian government strives to perceive and honestly defend. By the way: At the time, Mrs. Bundesrats President Haselbach, the Social Democratic Head of Delegation, was somewhat embarrassing when, as an Austrian in Prague, I addressed the Beneš decree. That is why I am also surprised by the request by Mr Dietachmayr, who now suddenly seems to discover the AVNOJ decisions and the Beneš decrees as a social democratic task. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Well, you weren't here in the house yet, I've been working on it!]] I am pleased that you are supporting us, but the question remains: What have you done in the time of your government? What has helped you to solve these open problems that have really been solved by bilateral problems? There has been little progress. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You weren't inside yet, I've already been concerned about these topics! You can read that! Be sure to find out before you practice criticism!]] Mr President, I should like to thank But apparently you have tried or dealt with very unsuccessfully, because you have not made progress on this issue. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Greatest Vigilance Court Council ever!]] However, I hope – and I conclude with this – that you will help the Social Democratic Party abroad and, above all, within the Socialist International to finally make it clear that these illegal laws must be repealed and the consequences of the injustice legislation must be eliminated in both the Czech Republic and Slovenia.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14943	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e14973	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would also like to comment on the all over-estimated issue of EU sanctions. I like a picture that was drawn today, and I like the fact that the woman minister has his foot in the door and is pushed by the other side, that is from the FPÖ side. I think that must be quite painful: You try to get the door to a split, and it's being pushed over and over again. It seems that FPÖ simply does not want to understand that it and its attitude are the cause of the reactions abroad. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Because the cast farmer hangs on the door!]] However, it is also the attitude of the ÖVP, which is practically in hostagery of the FPÖ. We found this on the weekend at the Mauthausen Memorial events: There was virtually no one present by the ÖVP. So much you are already being taken hostage by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Jessas, that's really stupid!]] Mrs Gatterer – unfortunately she is not here now – has said that she considers the survey to be useful, for a means of democracy. There, the Constitutional Expert and former National Council President Heinrich Neisser say something completely different. He believes that such a popular survey only further stimulates the mood in Europe, and he is concerned that the instrument of popular survey is devalued by such no-na questions as he calls them. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's not a no-na! question for you, because you don't agree anyway...! Then you can agree anyway!]] The question is really what you want to do with it. But you obviously have to look for this answer yourself, but first of all you are threatening. So that's what it's like now: Standstill, one bunker, one opens the door, the other closes it. That's how it goes. These are the spite and fear reactions of the government parties in Germany and abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We are not afraid of the...!]] And the problem is that FPÖ is very scared. She is afraid of foreigners, especially Nigerians and Eastern Europeans. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We are not afraid of the population!]] She's afraid of hormones, for example, from TBC. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: In front of drug dealers! In front of drug dealers!]] She's afraid of artists, and she's afraid of biting dogs, as we hear again and again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We don't want drugs dealers!]] I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that such a number of phobias are harmful to health, that this may not be very favourable. However, I would like to make another point on foreign policy. As you all know, Austria took over the presidency in the OSCE, and there has also been an increase in the budget in this context. 46.4 million Schillings are made available for conferences, events, information work and the like, 118.6 million Schillings for the cover of the OSCE's compulsory contributions, for additional major missions, for small projects, for personnel costs and the like. And 8.1 million Schillings serve to accommodate the OSCE institutions in Vienna. This is a lot of money for an important organisation that works for security and cooperation in Europe, that is, a very well-designed money. Nevertheless, there is always quiet and loud criticism of the Austrian Presidency, especially as regards the conflict in Chechnya. It has already been noted by the former Foreign Minister Schüssel and then by the National Council – this resolution was unanimously decided – that it is important to deal with this conflict first-class in Chechnya. The questions that are now being asked are as follows: Can we talk about any success in connection with Chechnya under the Austrian Presidency? What are the strategies of the Austrian government, or is their ability to act at all? Is the silent diplomacy, which is often too quiet diplomacy, sufficient, or should it sometimes be clear words spoken, clear concepts and perhaps demands? Other countries and other organisations see absolute need for action here. If you look at chronology a little bit, you can see that German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer called for an immediate and thorough investigation of these incidents in Chechen and also for free access to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, in February. This free access should include not only parts of Chechnya, but also the city of Grosny and the so-called filtration camps. In March, the EU stated that an investigation with international observers was essential. In the same notch, Germany's Chancellor Gerhard Schröder and Mary Robinson themselves, who were extremely shaken by reports of executions in rapid proceedings, intimidations, rapes, other injuries, attacks on civilian convoys and the like. It has also made a constructive proposal, calling for an expert commission made up of independent lawyers to be made up of representatives of non-governmental organisations and civil and military prosecutors. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the EU, Amnesty International and the Human Rights organisation have also taken action for this purpose. It was not until the end of April that an investigation commission was requested by the Austrian Presidency. It was quite late, it was so late that criticism of the presidency was announced, especially by the renowned daily Le Monde, who raised the question of whether the OSCE could become a fig leaf for the crimes in Chechnya under this careful leadership. And I want to get from this issue of "Le Monde" of 17. April Quotes: Among the numerous visits organized by the Russian authorities in their zones in Chechen were those of the OSCE, in which the aspect of the Potemkinsian villages was most incarcerated. The article, entitled "The Little Glorious Return Projects of the OSCE to Chechen", then reminds us that Russia's President Vladimir Putin refused a meeting with UN Human Rights Commissioner Mary Robinson and had refused, while the foreign minister was received with Prunk. The newspaper "Le Monde" continues: Unlike Mary Robinson, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has neither condemned the ordered violence against the civilian population in Chechnya nor the refusal to show her certain detention camps. I think this is a very serious accusation.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15108	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since the signal system obviously does not work here, I would draw your attention to the fact that your voluntary speaking time is now over.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15123	"Le Monde" thus concludes that the OSCE is risking the role of a fig leaf under a careful, too careful, too careful Presidency. And I wonder if something should not be changed here, and I further wonder if this possibility exists for you, Mrs Minister, at all, since you do not always receive from the government the support you would need. As you can see, very massive budget cuts are also being made in other areas, particularly in the social field, especially where the weak are concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15153	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15175	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The public debate and the debate in this House have focused very much on the non-comprehensible sanctions of the EU-14 in recent weeks, days, hours. Ladies and gentlemen! As a convinced European, I am very much concerned that these sanctions will be lifted as soon as possible. However, I still believe that it is very important for us here not to lose sight of the poorest countries in the world – and these are not in Europe. Austrian and European foreign policy should never lose sight of the fact that the Third World is as close to us in the age of globalisation as never before. The effects of wars and natural disasters, whose images have shaken us in the recent past, and the resulting flows of refugees, the global effects of environmental destruction, which also cause enormous economic damage, concern us all. Armed conflicts not only cause the greatest human suffering, they also throw back the development of whole countries for years and cost a lot of development aid budgets. However, we only get under control of wars and environmental destruction if we face the progress of poverty with conviction. This requires a reflection on how to help people in the Third World permanently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the current phase of a necessary budget consolidation, this federal government, above all our Federal Minister Benita Ferrero-Waldner, with her above-average motivated team in the section on development policy, devotes great attention to development policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Despite our commitment to the reorganisation of this budget on the expenditure side, this has been reflected in the donation of bilateral development cooperation. With the estimated approximately 775 million schilling, the nevertheless unfortunate budget cuts in bilateral development cooperation remain within a reasonable framework. Ladies and gentlemen! A few months ago, Mr Edlinger planned a 20 % reduction in his savings. Now the funds are just under 10 percent below the budget of the previous year. This was only possible through massive savings measures in other areas of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such as about minus 30 percent in the maintenance of embassies. This political orientation of the budget was taken very consciously by our Foreign Minister to express the solidarity of the Austrian Federal Government with the poorest countries in the world. I would like to point out that these figures do not include contributions from Austria to multilateral organisations such as the EU or international financial institutions such as the World Bank. However, this must not and should not conceal the fact that the medium shifts referred to are not repeatable at any time and at any time. Nevertheless, the amount of 775 million schilling for the EZA must not be lowered. On the contrary: The budget billions for EZA should be regained, but this requires a sustainable budget recovery. The recent DAC audit report, which has also been referred to by Mrs Jäger, gives a fairly good witness to the Austrian development policy as a whole. The achievements of Austria's public development cooperation in 1998 amount to 5.6 billion schilling or 0.22 percent of the gross social product and are therefore just below the DAC average. Some of the DAC recommendations on which this government will continue to work have already been taken into account in the government programme. In this legislative period, we will adopt an EZA law which covers the objectives and framework conditions of the Austrian development policy for concrete action. The fight against poverty will be even more important by promoting sustainable economic development than before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Education and training, respect for human rights, promotion of democracy and good governance, equal participation of women in the development process and environmental protection are to be defined as further priorities. The EZA Act will also include a redesign and upgrading of the Advisory Council on Development Policy, as required by the OECD Subcommittee's report. I certainly must reject the allegations made by representatives of the opposition in relation to the Austrian non-governmental organisations, who are rightly given a good witness in the DAC report. At this point, I would like to thank the NGOs very much for having been so committed to Austrian development cooperation in the past – and hopefully also in the future. I know that the framework conditions are not always very simple and I hope that they will continue to work with us with the same tenacity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I therefore point out the allegations that by moving the EZA to an intergovernmental level, the NGOs are to be made "mund dead" and back to the sharpest, as recently stated in a panel discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15262	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I only draw attention to the fact that the remaining voluntary speech time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15277	Just the opposite is the case: The NGOs continue to be an essential part of development cooperation. We will upgrade them even further, for example by making donations to non-profit associations tax deductible or by creating accident, health and life insurance for employees in voluntary rescue and relief organisations. In particular, in order to avoid financial hardships for the NGOs, the beneficiary postal service remains valid for the time being. Non-profit associations have to bear only a small increase of 15 percent, this preferential rate continues to apply to special numbers of a newspaper for the purpose of collecting donations. Unfortunately, Mrs. Lunacek is not in the hall. I cannot understand that in your previous statement, EZA measures in the poorest countries of the world are being played against the important information and education measures in Austria. Good development cooperation begins, of course, in raising awareness in the country, here in Austria. Both approaches are interrelated. Development cooperation has to do with global issues and requires a global partnership. Wars, poverty and environmental destruction on other continents affect us more ecologically and economically than they did a few decades ago. The world has become smaller. We should therefore look more intensively beyond the edge of the plate and see the solution to the problems of the Third World as a central challenge in this House too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15317	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15338	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! As a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to look at your statements on nuclear power station Krško, with which you have managed to torpedo 20 years of work on consistent Austrian anti-atomic policies. In any event, it was highly unprofessional to object to the decisions of the Austrian Federal Government, in particular the July 1999 Anti-Atom Pact, which both the German Government and the subsequent parties of this House decided to do. You will be working on the 5th. In Laibach, Austria has never demanded that the Krško nuclear power plant be closed in advance, and you have said that the question of nuclear safety is no longer so critical. Mrs. Federal Minister! For this reason, they have been strongly criticized not only by the opposition – the SPÖ and the Greens – as well as by the Austrian media, but also by your government partner FPÖ. And both the Styrian head of state Klasnic, a party friend of yours, as well as the Carinthian head of state, have pointed out that Austria has to request an early exit from Krško's operation and a special consideration of the safety of nuclear power plants in the accession negotiations with Slovenia. The Krško nuclear power station is located just 100 kilometres south of Graz and is 60 kilometers from the Austrian border. It is, as we know, in a seismic, earthquake - threatening area. In order to ensure the security of the Austrian population, only a closure can ultimately be possible. I therefore ask you, Mrs Bundesminister: On the decisions of the Anti-Atom Pact of 1999, on the decisions of the Federal Government, on the decisions of the Land Governments and the Land Days and on your own Blue-Black Pact of Work! Mrs. Minister! That's your constitutional duty. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this also applies to Mrs Gatterer of the Austrian People's Party, who, as part of the discussion of the foreign policy chapter in the Committee on Budgets, I quote, the closure of Krško should not be a condition for accession to Slovenia. So the question is: Do you want to avoid Austrian anti-atomic policy? Is this government going to be blackmailed by a Slovenian Foreign Minister who demands from Austria the guarantee that it will not stand in the way of its country's accession to the EU? Ladies and gentlemen of this House! On Tuesday the 9. May, i.e. yesterday, an exchange of experience between delegations from nine days of land to prevent border nuclear power stations took place in Salzburg's Landtag. This exchange of experience was reflected in a final statement, in which all groups of the land days continue to make massive efforts to maintain anti-atomic policies. Austria will continue to work for a non-nuclear Europe and must strongly reject the creation or commissioning of nuclear power plants and other nuclear installations in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All the groups in the countryside – I would like to stress this, including your group! – agree that Austria’s conviction must be adequately brought into Europe, and the blue-black government is talking about supporting and reorganising these problematic nuclear power plants! Here I ask the question: What will this support look like in concrete terms? Is this support just an shoulder knock, combined with the best wishes? Or is there financial support for the exit scenarios from nuclear energy? Is an anti-atomic tax coming for our people, or is the Minister of Finance creating the Spagat to turn a part off from the 20 billion gift package for entrepreneurs and farmers? Ladies and gentlemen! High house! So there are open questions about questions to which the blue and black Federal Government knows no answer, but questions that move people in our country and which they rightly ask for an answer. However, the SPÖ will, in any case, require maximum protection of the Austrian population in order to ensure maximum safety of the eastern nuclear power plants in the context of the accession negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15404	The next speaker is Mr Haigermoser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15426	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If we have followed today's debate, we can say: She almost listened to the opposition's wish concert: All that it has failed for decades is said to be done in 100 days by the advanced Federal Government, now by the Federal Government. You have to wait for some more miracles, ladies and gentlemen! The impossible that you left us because of your inactivity, we will do anyway! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now on a subject, Mrs Federal Minister, which has not yet been addressed: The Austrian National Council must be concerned to pay close attention to the southern part of Tyrol despite major progress in South Tyrol policy. I am one on this question with Dr. Khol. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that the ever-increasing role of protection in Austria is a fact against South Tyrol and is always underlined! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As a detailed problem, I would like to take out the toponomastics: We know that this is a difficult subject, but it is still unsolved, because the fascist tolome-dictates and decrees from the 20s of the last century have done a lot of human contempt and other international law violations. It is therefore high time, ladies and gentlemen, to reach a solution on this issue of toponomastics in the sense of the South Tyrol German and Ladin tongues. The Austrian diplomacy is of course still here on the train. Ladies and gentlemen! It has often been sung to the Foreign Minister today. I think it is worth noting that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have done some real political hard work in recent times, which can no doubt be seen. The respect of our part shall also be underlined. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I call as a keyword only Chechens: While other countries, otherwise highly researched, occur very quietly in human rights abuses in Chechnya, the Austrian foreign minister here has worked as an icebreaker in order to come gradually and sensitively to solutions for the people there who truly need it. Unfortunately, there has been no special support from the opposition on this important subject. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret this, and we know that the Union is still only passionate on this issue. That's unfortunate. The German Foreign Minister Joseph "Joschka" Fischer, who, with his French colleague, uses the dive station as a place to stay, does not have to talk with Putin and so on, and possibly to overcome economic advantages. Ladies and gentlemen! Human rights first belong to people! This is also what we call for from the rest of the Union, especially from the point of view of the fact that the Austrian Foreign Minister has done really great work in this regard. It deserves this support from the Union! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] For the time being, the sanctions had been discussed. You will not prevent us from working out ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, your double game you are doing. The Austrians have already looked through this. You can still throw so many nebula grenades here, I say, to dilute the point of view, but you will not succeed. That is why it is necessary to show the embarrassing role you have played all over the continent. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a fact: The SPÖ has via Socialist International blackened its own country abroad – with the support of the Greens. They were the ones who put the stone in the roll! That's fact and fact! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now that you get rid of things from red and green, you're trying to break the whole thing up. Your hectic travel activities, which you will all show, your trips to your federal associates to Berlin, Paris, Brussels and elsewhere prove the bad conscience of the comrades. Ladies and gentlemen! You have a bad conscience, because you've put the story in place. But then you have suddenly become bright - the Austrian population does not want to! –, have tried to make good wind, but of course you have been sent home. That's clear, because they said: First light up and then suddenly demand the opposite again, that is not played with us! We also have domestic interests in France or Portugal and elsewhere where to use history as a distraction maneuver there. Regularly light up They continue and are then sent home by Moskovici and by Sharping and comrades to continue pouring oil into the fire. Dr. Gusenbauer has proved this again: He's on his way to pour oil into the fire, ladies and gentlemen! The political bandelt dance you once again performed today has proved that you have caught yourself back in your own cross-spin net. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They don't get out of there anymore, and that's why you're in trouble. This is what the Austrian population knows, and therefore you fear from the SPÖ and the Greens a popular survey like the devil the holy water! It is very interesting in this context to take a look at Klaus Emmerich's book "Concursion of a Kaste",...
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15523	Deputies! You have one more minute of remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15538	... who says: Voices and other disturbances.– We say: Citizens are not voices! We will therefore ask them if all the other predecessors are not cut off. We will look for the end of the shoulder with the citizen if you are not ready, ladies and gentlemen! Last but not least – I don't stick to the motto "striking Shakespeare" here, but I'm looking at Goethe – read two short passages from the "Zauberleiterling": [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Spell Teacher!]] "Oh, you're born of hell! Should the whole house grow up? I see water streams running over every threshold. An infamous broom who doesn't want to hear! Stock, who you were, stand still again!" [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now comes the second passage: "And they're running! It is wet and wet in the hall and on the steps: What terrible waters! Lord and Master, hear me call! - Oh, here comes the Master! Sir, the distress is great! Who I called, the spirits, I won't let go now." Ladies and gentlemen! You will no longer let go of the spirits you have called, but the spirits will drive out the citizens! [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] In any case, we are right by looking for the shoulder closure with the Austrians. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Walle! Walle!]] We do not need you, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the party that is supposed to have leased democracy, but has the best links to the anarchists, namely the Greens!
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15623	Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Lunacek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15645	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Foreign Minister! On the basis of the fact that I have only one minute's speaking time, I have no time to address the polemics of Mr Haigermoser, but I want to come to a point of fact, namely a motion for a resolution which, I am delighted to have received support from all four parties in this House in the run-up to the discussions, namely the Western Sahara, which was illegally occupied by Morocco 25 years ago. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That wasn't a polemic! Since when is Goethe polemic?]] I think that's most known to you. For years, an attempt has been made to lead a referendum under UNEgyd. This attempt has been taking place for years with regard to the definition of the number of persons entitled to vote, especially on the part of Morocco, because more and more people want to have voting rights. Recently UN Secretary General Kofi Annan started a new attempt and commissioned James Baker... – Mr Haigermoser! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Now the Goethe posthumous polemist! Leave the old secret council alone!]] Do you want to listen to me? I am not talking about your polemics, but about our motion for a resolution. ==References====External links== In May, in London, both sides of conflict, i.e. the Polisario and Morocco, were brought to a table. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The minute is already over!]] That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15737	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Bruckmann is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15761	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! As the last speaker of my group, you allow me to try to see today's debates in a wider context. Out of my childhood I remember an Aesopian fable, which I did not understand at the time and which was extremely irritated by my sense of right: A wolf and a lamb drink side by side from a stream. The wolf says: Thou hast polluted my drinking water by thy drink: I will eat thee at the punishment. The Lamb answers: But I've been drinking from the stream below you, so I couldn't have polluted your water at all. On the wolf: I don't care – and eat the lamb. Today, 60 years later, after the action of the 14 Heads of State and Government, the statement of the Fable has become clear to me: Power is going to be right. More: Power wants to manifest itself. Hiezu is always a suitable object, the weaker, the incorruptible, even in order to divert from the questionability of one's own power through the persecution of the innocent, innocuous, image of an artificial enemy. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] This joyful projection new spelling, Hohes Haus, goes through all the history of humanity. The facts do not interest the wolf; and that the wicked is often far superior to the powerful, only strengthens the prejudice of the powerful. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Huber and Mr Oellinger.]] Let me quote an unwarranted witness – Helmut Zilk – who wrote a long article in a mass paper a few days ago, in which he penetratingly lists what Austria has done in the last 55 years far more than all the other neighbouring countries in terms of foreigners' kindness in the country and abroad. [[the speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date]] And let me add what Andreas Khol mentioned earlier: Hardly any other country has stricter anti-national socialist laws and has also executed them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] High house! This means that I come directly to the budget chapter Externally: Each such manifestation of power is an expression of its weakness. The fact that France, which has seen its previous hegemony in Europe seriously threatened by the forthcoming EU enlargement, found a welcome suffrage in an EU small state, has caused serious damage to the idea of European agreement. High house! Stock exchanges are a seismograph. Like Bernhard Felder, I am convinced that the decline in the euro course is at least partly due to the fact that the confidence of the world economy in a strong and some of Europe has been greatly deteriorated by the action of the 14, and a weak euro cannot remain without direct and indirect impact on the Austrian economy, on our social product and therefore on the Federal Budget. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] Hats off before the services of the officials and staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who often work up to the border of the personally feasible in case of strong personnel under-employment in many departments – I know this from my own experience – for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] If these sanctions remain, this will not be able to remain without impact on the staffing of the foreign office. High house! Against this background, it would be ridiculous to wish to build the shock of European unification on earlier statements of a current head of state and to build upon these statements a common occurrence of all four parties represented in the National Council. I would like to add the following to the address of my own party: We should also refrain from questioning the Stockholm dinner as part of such manifestations. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not really it!]] High house! It is a matter of far more than Austria's national interests. Austria has become a test case for Europe. It should be known that I have been fighting in word and writing for the unification of Europe for many years. This generation experiences no more and no less than the attempt at the realization of the thousand-year dream of the empire, the realization of a system of peace for the whole of Europe – without violence and without a single usurpator, but in a peaceful way and on the basis of the equality of all Member States. High house! As a simple member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I would like to allow myself to repeat the invitation given by Mr Spindelegger and repeated by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely to fulfil our responsibilities for Europe through joint manifestations, but in ways that correspond to the dignity and self-respect of the Austrian people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] One word to the opposition: Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Even if, as you have often pointed out, the continuation of sanctions is only in the interests of the government parties, it would have to be all the easier for you to participate constructively in an end to sanctions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr President. If I still have one minute's speaking time, you'll allow me to give a more conciliatory exit this evening by presenting a true anecdote. This is an anecdote that the Board of Directors of the Vienna Philharmonic, Clemens Hellsberg, recently told in the private circle, a true anecdote: During the First World War, 1916/17, it was decided to carry out a peace mission, initiated by the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the Vienna Philharmonic being sent to Switzerland on a tour. The peace mission didn't stay without unsightly intermediates. The opening took place in Zurich and went on program – the musicians were vividly acclaimed by the audience and the press. Bern, Lucerne and Lausanne followed. The next day, however, the participants took back to the ground of reality: The city council of Geneva, including three sides of the French territory, was prohibited by German- and Austrian-embracing rallys for the 7th century. The concert was scheduled for July by the Philharmonics, and instead the orchestra gave an extra-planned performance in Bern. And now it comes: ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website However, they were overcome by the protestative applause of the embarrassingly disheartened audience and then "punished with ten days of arrest" by the sanity authorities. [[From here on the speaker swiss German]] I admire the far-reaching view of those three Belgians that they already knew in advance that the Free Party must be prevented from taking part in a later government.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15854	The next speaker is Mr Fischl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e15875	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bruckmann! I need to congratulate you on your highly philosophical lecture! But I actually want to distinguish myself from that: I don't want to act so highly philosophically, because I believe that many of the listeners, especially on the left of me, probably don't have the spirit to recognize what is behind your philosophical approaches. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: For the Bruckmann it did!]] Let me discuss this a little closer! – Mr Commissioner Schieder! My opinion Their person concerned was actually relatively high to the present day. Mr. Schieder! [[Abg. You don't need to talk to us! If you insult us all like that, you don't need to talk to us!]] Mr. Schieder! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Save your comments! You don't have a style! You have no courtesy! Shame!]] Mr Schieder, I do not believe you. If you stand here, and try to intellectually say that it is really about worrying about what is going on in Austria, and about the international isolation of Austria in Europe, and if you say that the Austrian is thinking about more sensitivity in dealing with the public interest of Austria or the interest of the Austrians, I must tell you: You can yell down here from the bank, but I don't believe you! Most of what you say and what was said here by the people on the left of me today was nothing but the untruth. In contrast, you will be able to make a permanent statement here, in which – whether it is economic issues or budget questions, whether they are foreign policy actions – you claim the opposite of what is actually the reality. A Minister of Finance, contrary to better knowledge, says that he has prepared a budget precisely, although one knows and at the time already knew that the European leaders who have been thinking about our budget, although... [[Abg. Arbitrators: You talk about the spirit of the others and can not even use the right case for the word "reverse"!]] Mr. Schieder! There's nothing better by jumping up and down here on the rows either! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think you would have had the opportunity today to create clarity as an external spokesperson of the Social Democrats in the important vital question of Austria: the question of the national consensus of all the persons concerned, of all the Members present here! [[Abg. Gaál: Take it back!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You take yourself far too important!]] Mr Schieder! With a casserole up and down from one bank to the other, but you won't tear anyone off the stool! [[Call to the liberals: But this is good for blood pressure!]] I would like to return to the low level of sensitivity. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's the word you need! That's right with you!]] I believe – and I may now be a bit philosophical – that the social democrats are constantly getting excited about producing, so to speak, the dye that is the bad Austrian image, and that these social democrats stand in here and preach the higher morale, that we are racists, fascists and what I know I call everything, Mr. Cot Schieder, that is simply not worthy of a foreign-political speaker of your caliber! [[Abg. Edlinger: The other is the Karawanken Urlaute!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can't understand why you're carrying that. I don't want to understand, either, even though I tried at the beginning. Mr. Schieder! If you are now party chairman, Gusenbauer, who moves through half of Europe and brings the dye with you, so that this Austrian image is drawn even more darkly, and then stands up and gives a great deal of attention to how we should behave in Austria in the future – whether it is about the action plan or other questions – then he is dealing with better knowledge, and I would like to tell you that. [[Abg. Dietachmayr:... refusal of reality!]] I don't believe you. I don't want to believe you anymore. [[Abg. Edlinger: That's us Wurst whether you believe us!]] I have also lost faith in politicians who produce themselves here and generally constantly preach water and drink wine, Mr. Schieder. [[Abg. Edlinger: This is an honor if he does not believe me!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! If social-democratic politicians make themselves up here and say against better knowledge that through the government participation of the liberals, the Austrian stock exchange is in the wake and the courses are falling, and if social-democratic and green Members are producing and claiming that tourism in Austria suffers massive damage, and if here, Mr. Schieder, are constantly told untruths, how do you expect a person like me to have a lot left for you? [[Abg. Edlinger: We don't expect anything from you!]] How do you expect yourself to be treated with respect if you do not even want to apply the principles of respect, Mr. Schieder? [[Abg. Edlinger: They are among those we don't expect from!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: We don't expect anything from you, Mr Fischl!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! [[Abg. Edlinger: This is the prerequisite for being at the FPÖ that you don't expect anything!]] Somehow the government now has inherited two mortgages: The one mortgage is the fact that we are left with public debt of 1,700 billion schilling and more that we now have sick insurance companies that, despite the great merits in social policy, more than a million people live on the poverty line. The second mortgage is for me an intangible mortgage: This is the mortgage that we have to work on for a long time, because this fact-building tourism – and I would like to mention it – is actually causing immaterial damage by Mr Gusenbauer, who will still have to work for years on which perhaps other generations will have to work. I think it should end. I think it would be better – to say this to the Green Group too – if you thought about a remarkable detail: Today, they demand a national etiquette on the question of the inhabitants of Western Sahara. Mrs. Colleague! Ask for a national shoulder closure on the question of Austria, and here a reasonable one! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16129	Since I cannot say with certainty whether I have already found that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lunacek has been properly tabled, I do so. Furthermore, I note that no one has made any mention of this and that the debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the advisory group III of the Federal proposal for the year 2000. This includes Chapter 20 of the Federal Estimate in 60 of the Supplements, as amended by the Special Report in 80 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this in order to have a positive sign. – This is the majority, and it is accepted. According to § 55 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the vote be taken on the motions for resolutions tabled at the time of the negotiation of the Advisory Group III of the Federal Finance Act. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Lunacek and comrades on the release of debts for Mozambique and Madagascar. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jäger and Mr Comrades on the security of financial resources for bilateral development cooperation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members. Lunacek, Inge Jäger, Mag. Hakl, Dr. Martin Grafund Comrades on peace process in Western Sahara. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 9.) The agenda is now exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2000-05-10-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00022_d7e16232	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications for 147/A to 150/A have been tabled. Questions 730/J to 749/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 11. In May 2000, 9 a.m., the following agenda was adopted: Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (60 and 60 of the Supplements): Federal Finance Act for the year 2000 and Investments (80 and 80 of the Supplements). The Advisory Group IX will consult: Economy and work and Advisory Group XII: Military affairs. – There is no Question Time at this part-session. The sitting is closed.
