ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u247	I am opening the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Intonation of the Anthem I welcome all present delegates and MPs and invited guests present today at this session. Welcoming the journalists present, I would like to express my regret that today there is no decent journalism between Bosnia and Herzegovina and a zealous companion of the assembly events, Mr Mladen Paunović, who died suddenly. I offer my sincere condolences to his family and colleagues with TVBiH because we have all lost a wonderful man and a professional and who we will long, long remember. I'd go to the agenda with this. I find that today's session is present before the agenda, 13 delegates. They announced their absence by Mr Ivo Živković and Pero Marković, who justified their absence. For today's session, the following is proposed 1. Journal of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2nd. Minutes from the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Journal of the Joint Session of both homes, 4. Proposal for a programme of work of the House of People for the period August - December 1999, 5. Final Report of the South East European Stability Summit of the Organizational Committee of the Summit of the Stability Pact held in Sarajevo on 29 and 30 July 1999, 6. Legislative questions. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Avdo Čampara. 2
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u249	First of all, I agree with the proposed agenda, with the fact that the report on the maintenance of the Summit may need to be postponed, for the reason that I do not see anyone here who could briefly make a statement about this report and inform us what is further taken up to the final report of the Organising Committee. I do not want to criticise the BiH Council of Ministers with this, but I think it is their turn, in the future, to ministers and co-chair and chairman, who has always been in meetings, and vice-presidents, to attend the House of Peoples meetings. For the House of Peoples also makes decisions and legal acts, and it is rare that decisions are made by the House of Representatives itself, and not the House of Peoples. Therefore, in the future, we should know in the BiH Council of Ministers that they should also attend these sessions and that we can direct them, if we have excuses, certain questions, and that they can answer us at the session itself or that they can later do so, which is, otherwise, the order in the parliamentary procedure. So I don't know if we could consider this item on the agenda, maybe it'd be best if we moved it for the next session, not about it now, and we don't have a proposing. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u250	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? I propose Mr. Čampara to vote, which is to point 5. The final report of the South East European Stability Pact Organising Committee for the Southeast Europe, held in Sarajevo on July 29th and 30th 1999, will not be on today's agenda and will allow for the next meeting of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Who's up for such a proposal? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? Since we're unanimous, there's no need to vote on peoples and clubs. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda Ad.1. The log from the 6th session of the House of Peoples you received the record during the day. Any objections to the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 19 July 1999? Here you go. If there are no objections, can we adopt this minutes of the 6th session of the House of Peoples? Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 3 We move to the 2nd point of the agenda Ad.2. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of People, held in 27.7.1999, I am opening a debate on this record. Any objections? Here you go. Okay, it's about technical nature, just to figure this out in the final version of the record. Are there any other comments on the record? If there isn't, who's for adoption, with this technical remark, the correction that's been given? Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on July 27th 1999. Moving to the 3rd point of the Ad.3. A record from the first joint session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH held on 22 and 27 July 1999 you also received this report. Does he have any objections to the record? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u251	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, it's not a fundamental remark, but it's principled. To avoid future failures, perhaps on more important issues and more important suggestions. For the purposes of this Protocol, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The European integration of the Stability Pact for Yugoslavia, on the other hand, under that point, item 12 stands here "in the follow-up session Ibrahim Spahić spoke again, in the name of the Commission, who discussed the remarks and made up the proposal for documents, then Rasim Kadić on the amendment of Miodrag Deretić“. I can't remember exactly whether Mr. Kadić spoke or not, but I do know that by the amendment of Mr. Deretić I went out and gave arguments on this particular issue, it's not listed in the record, but, I mean in principle, for the future to know who said what and who suggested what. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u252	Do you have a specific or should you remain at the level of the principle of making a record? I ask professional services to look at the stenogram and to correct this in the record, it is most likely a technical or accidental error. Are there any other comments on the record? 4 If not, who is for the adoption of the record with 1. Joint meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? I find that we unanimously adopted the record with one. The joint session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, held on 22 July and 27 July 1999. Moving to the 4th point of the Ad.4 agenda. The proposal for a programme of work of the People's House for the period August-December 1999 All delegates received a proposal for this document, which we have drawn up in the last days, at the same time in the procedure, the College of both homes referred to the debate of MPs, i.e., delegates, this working document, and you have now received one draft of this document, which has been processed and supplemented by suggestions, remarks given by MPs. I make a proposal for a program of work at the House of Peoples, here you get common, true, in materials, because for technical reasons you are not separated programs of work, but we can discuss the program of work of the House of Nations, it is about technical possibilities, too, I am not sure whether these work programmes have succeeded in all three languages, but the final texts will certainly be brought into line with, or be translated into all three languages. I propose a programme of work to the People's House for the period August - December 1999 for consideration. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Malić Milomir. The Constitutional Affairs Commission has considered this draft work programme and will submit a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u253	Mr Chairman, fellow delegates, the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with its jurisdiction, has discussed this draft programme and has delivered this opinion to all delegates, but, behold, I will be in the role of the chairman of the Commission.... I, in the role of the chairman of the Commission, will read this, more for, of course, the public. The Committee for Constitutional and Legal Affairs at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina - the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the third session of the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, held on 31 August 1999, the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs of the People's House of the 5th Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina discussed the proposal for a programme of work of the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period August-December 1999 and in accordance with Article 5(3). Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina - The House of Peoples is given the following opinion: 1. The Commission found that the proposal for a programme of work at the National Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period August-December 1999 was in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Interim Rules of Procedure of the People's House and assessed the need to adopt the Work Programme. 2. The Commission notes that the names of the laws and analytical and information materials do not prejudge their final names and contents. 3. The Commission did not assess the constitutionality of a law whose consideration is provided for by the Work Programme, which will be done in a regular procedure before reviewing those laws in the House of Peoples. Mr. Chairman, while I'm here, I'd like to use something to say in terms of my discussion. Today, however, we have also followed the work of the House of Representatives. This report I filed on behalf of the Commission, I think that most of the participants here share -- so we really couldn't define ourselves today and vote for this proposed programme for a few reasons. Especially since one part of the delegates, including myself, believe that we have not cleared all of this up enough and determined - whether all these proposals, in particular the proposals of the law, are in agreement with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, then with all other documents and declarations that followed the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, and I think there is no reason to do so quickly here, and we all agree that the Programme should be adopted and in particular that this Parliamentary Assembly adopts both the laws and the part of the information material necessary for the reception of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe. Here, I am taking the opportunity and I am, in a way, to, in agreement with the Decisions of the House of Representatives, leave this few days so that we can all study, consider, understand, everyone -- especially from two entities -- to carry out further consultations in our governments, since this is tangling the entire area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to bring these documents properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u255	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u256	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the delegates, gentlemen of the international community and organisations, present journalists. I would like to join in one part of the proposal, in the last part, Mr. Malić, with what I would like to suggest. Looking at today's session of the Representative Council, because we have been waiting to see what kind of debate will be and how it will be held, together with you, and I have personally watched it and I have noticed that there have been quite a lot of discussions, proposals for new ones compared to the proposed Work Programme, which he proposed, and to one and the other council, the College and one and the other home. By observing and analyzing our sessions so far and today, I have one opinion, my own personal opinion, which I will propose here. I think 6 is missing one co-ordination in the work of representatives and joint bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, especially now. Here, today I have seen it personally, I do not know what opinion will be on the part of other MPs and delegates when it comes to adopting and agreeing on the programme of work of one and the other home, based on those new draft laws, compared to theirs, in a certain way proposed by the College..., which served as the basis for further discussion. Personally, I think there is a need for this coordination between these institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be established, that there is greater coordination, exchange of views on certain issues, especially now on these laws, based on those conferences and views and decisions that bind us. We're bonding here at the Madrid conference, we're bonding to the Dayton Peace Agreement, that's our obligation, and I think it's clear to all of us. Therefore, certain tasks have been set there, certain tasks have been set, we have all declared to support them and to work on them, because these are essential conditions and basic conditions for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union and the Council of Europe. I don't think there's any need to propose any laws beyond those tasks, because we have enough work and assignments to do based on these conferences. And that is why I propose here -- so I have one proposal -- to prepare and organise a joint meeting of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and at least the colleges of one and the other at home, to take a clear look at these documents and to see what is missing and what we have to, and at one and another home to adopt, which are laws, respecting the maximum competence and authority of the joint bodies and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with respect, normally, the rights and powers of both entities. There are, by the way, powers shared, defined, and I think, if we want to maximise our work and make our contribution to what our tasks and obligations are, I think we should be able to prepare such a meeting very quickly to simply shorten our comments, to shorten our discussions. Through these comments and discussions, I have seen in part today with MPs - we are going back too much, in my view, unnecessaryly, certain unnecessary discussions and comments are opening up and I think that such comments and discussions will not lead to any of our common agreements and certain solutions that are necessary, which are really important for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are important for all three peoples, and I personally think that this is both our mission and our contribution to this business that we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u257	Who's next to the word? Mr. Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u258	I would rely on Mr. Ljubičić's discussion, just on his closing words. I think we should take seriously and bring a programme that is in Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest and in the interests of the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The fact that we're going to postpone by a few days, probably, the adoption of this program, I don't mind. But I wouldn't be handling today's discussion that I've been listening to in some part of the House of Representatives. I, of course, have no right to challenge any MP of the House of Representatives of his discussion and his opinion, but I want to say that there have been far more stories in that home about quite other issues that have nothing to do with the Programme of Labour of the House of Representatives and that often at that House we can, I say it openly, listen to certain discussions as if we have some pre-election activity. I don't think that's going to happen in this house, and it can't happen, given that we're both numerically smaller and that we are, as a rule, considering issues that are being considered at both homes after the House of Representatives session. This does not mean that we will not adopt our programme in the next period, because our programme and programme of the House of Representatives in 90% of the cases must be identical, except for those points of the agenda where the House of Representatives has its responsibilities, and the House of Peoples has its responsibilities. I think the opinion given by the Constitutional Affairs Commission is quite good. It will not be possible for a colleague, nor will anyone be able to determine what is in accordance with the Constitution and what is not in accordance with the Constitution until we have obtained the law and until we look at its contents. It will write a constitutional basis itself, and then we will assess whether it is a constitutional basis or not. That's one thing. The second thing, remember that there are more authorised proposings for the adoption of certain regulations in both homes. Every delegate of the House of Nations and every MP of the House of Representatives has the right to propose a law. The law in the procedure at one home and another must attend meetings. The other thing is whether one or the other home or both will reject it as a whole or adopt it with certain changes and additions, it's quite another thing. But he has to enter the procedure because he was proposed by an authorised promoter. It is also the BiH Presidency, it is the BiH Council of Ministers, it is every MP, it is, after all, every delegate of this house. Therefore, if we also postpone this item of the agenda, as Malić suggested, for a certain period, then it is expected that suggestions, proposals and opinions should be made to supplement the programme so that it is as complete as possible and as realistic as possible for adoption by the new year. I have to say, this is an ambitious program. I don't know, if it were done as we have done so far, as the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has done so far, and one and the other homes would not adopt it in two, three years, not four months. I have to say, because that's the way it is. The international community also assesses us as one of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina which is not sufficiently engaged in the adoption of certain regulations that are necessary for us. But I would like to join all of those if, first of all, we could adopt those legal regulations that require us to the Council of Europe to join the Council of Europe. If we do not meet these conditions and pass those regulations, we will not become a permanent member of the Council of Europe, and then, as soon as we do not become a permanent member of the Council of Europe, we do not become a permanent member of many European institutions, and I think that would be quite negative for us, not to say fatally. That is why I think it takes as much as possible to focus on bringing this programme as soon as possible, as a document, because it requires the Council of Europe to do so. This is one of the first requirements required by the Council of Europe, the adoption of that programme and the adoption of certain rules, and we must and should work on it. After all, we have promised that to everyone who visits us, here, every 15 days from the Council of Europe, and with the co-chair and chairman when they discuss it, and with others, we promise it. I think we should work on that. And not only is this Assembly supposed to work on it, because it's not just her task, it's up to governments and entity assemblies, and they have their obligations to carry out in this, but it's already too late to speak for the September deadline, within this next deadline, in order to become a permanent member of the Council of Europe early next year. That is why I believe that, as delegates to the House of Peoples, we must seriously approach all the questions and, I repeat, ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to treat us the same way as it has treated the House of Representatives, because this may have happened once or twice now, but today there is not much of the Council of Ministers of BiH, neither the co-chair, vice president, nor the members of the Council of Ministers, nor their deputies, at least saying that they should turn to this home and seriously approach these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u259	Thank you very much. Lord's Šoljić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u260	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives, I would express one dissatisfaction with the BiH Council's relationship to our home and, in general, I would say, towards both homes. I said at the College, I would say this again, the most beautiful buildings in these countries that we have modeled are parliaments. I would say the presidents of the most powerful states stand before parliament with great fear and respect. I think we should try to get our home that place and that status. When it comes to the program, the very fact that we're doing the program for the first time is one quality in the method of our work, but it wasn't expected to expect us from the first, in a few days, to adopt a good program, a program that we can really work towards, and the adoption of a bad work programme, I mean, it serves nothing. The adoption of the program for the sake of the program, I would never accept it. I think most of you, too. So I join these predecessors to respect today, although we do not need to copy that home in front of us, but indeed, we have heard a lot of things and what is good and what is less good, I would sort of like to see it as a contribution to making a better programme and our home, but I would also say that without the Council of Ministers programme, our programme doesn't make sense. The laws that we will propose on our own to those who determine the operation, who are working the course of life, I don't think it makes any sense. And also, it wouldn't make sense if they were suggesting something, and we're saying no here. Therefore, our cooperation is necessary. So I would support those who, first of all, said to Drag that one conversation, I wouldn't say that to some official or some, Bog knows what kind of conversation with the Council of Ministers, he's necessary to create a quality program of work. So, we're about to have this debate today, in my opinion, we end up here relatively little, that for the next 10-15 days, as far as we estimate that enough, we do all the consultations, we get as many remarks as possible, we adopt as much quality and more real work programme as possible by the end of the year, but the quality of this program is to be fit for next year's program, because by New Year's, we won't know how much we can do in the program, but it's important to start doing it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u261	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will also join the evaluations that we have tried, except that it sounds ugly, as a member of the College, what I say, we have tried, indeed, to make a compromise proposal for a work programme that re-emerges from our commitments to the Madrid Conference and other documents that speak of the need for Bosnia and Herzegovina to get certain legal solutions to be ready to enter these European integrations and institutions. What I would say is that we really tried to reach these 16 laws that were given in the first part of the Programme package. We also said that under this programme we would consider other legal acts and initiatives that will be in this period, we have agreed, which will be imposed, or if the need to discuss other issues arises, whether they are legal or whether it is information or decision-making that concerns this home. What I would say is, when we look at what has been done over the past two and a half years or three years, this really represents an ambitious programme, but at the same time it is necessary to meet certain conditions and that BiH is taken seriously in its statements that it wants to join these integrations that we are talking about. We also, for the sake of the public, and for the sake of ourselves here, have said that both homes will be sitting, we have promised representatives of the Council of Europe that we will be sitting in continuity, and with such an organisation of work in this assembly, surely we can fulfill a good part of these programming tasks that are drawn here. Also, I would especially point out here that for the first time we proposed, for both homes, some work calendars at home and we said at the same time that we would also have meetings as needed. Hence, I believe that today's proposal for Members who are not ready to discuss this proposal will be compensated by additional or extraordinary work. What I particularly point out in this programme, was here to express, it is a law on, although all equally important laws for the functioning of this Parliament, i.e., the BiH state as a whole, tell me everything in the framework of the Dayton Agreement and these documents that have already been adopted (?), which is, I would point out the need especially for the Law on Refugees and displaced persons on BiH territory, a large number of people wandering around looking for someone to turn to and how to exercise their fundamental rights, because there is no respect for human rights without the right to return and what Dejton is saying within that Annex 7. The Dayton Agreement. This is also an important debate that will be held, if we adopt such a programme, on the information on the return, i.e. the implementation of the Dayton Agreement in Annex 7, part of Annex 7, because it seems to me to be the key to achieving those first rights that every citizen of BiH should achieve, it is the right to systematic property, the right to return or the right to vote, related to further life in Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, I would suggest, since the House of Representatives has made certain proposals today, i.e. MPs have made certain proposals, I am free to propose two documents that have arrived, which are: Preparation of BiH for EU Membership and Implication of an initiative to join BiH and the World Trade Organisation, as possible materials that we would speak in the chapter of the Analytical and Informative Activity, I think it is necessary to put this on this home if we really want to analyse all the requirements that arise, not only those 11 conditions, what further is waiting for us, this was important, especially that we here in this programme, that we will start to think about the programme for 2000, that we have to think about what is needed and what conditions we need to meet in order to join this European community, i.e., integration for which we advocate. I will contribute this contribution to professional services. Thank you very much. Mr. Mugdin. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u262	The Honorable Presidency, fellow delegates, I would really like to join these grades, but first of all, I would like to suggest to the College that we do not make a similar mistake more than today and three hours wait for predstavnički House of Representatives to finish the job, that we are so tired today discussing. I know, the draft program says that we're going to be working the day after, and I think that practice really needs to become reality. Secondly, I join the evaluations presented in terms of the irresponsible relationship of the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because if we analyse eight sessions as many as we have had and we take video and tonne records, so let's see that on average one or no man sits here on average, on average! So I have feelings that gentlemen think we're playing a different league or they want us to play in a different league. Neither – neither is true. Therefore, I ask that from here, indeed, one serious request be addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers, this is the same relationship to the commissions. I also speak as president of the Transport and Communications Commission. At three meetings, no one responded, except for the extension of the 6th session, when we had that consultation on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Aviation Act. That's one observation. Secondly, I have to say that I have received this document in terms of college, the requirement to give certain suggestions on the draft program, I have used it rightly, and, calling for this act, I have sent a written proposal and then I say and now, I am truly expressing my personal satisfaction that we have come to a document called the Draft Program at all, because I think it is a step forward and second, that this document today, here, which we again call the Draft Programme, objectively, with certain suggestions, remarks and suggestions that were also at the House of Representatives and, here at the House of Peoples, should mean one solid basis for a programme that, very likely, already in September, in November, November, in November, to make the desired activity of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. In that sense, I would suggest that somewhere in the Programme, however, there is a commitment of the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that we also train the laws adopted by the High Representative and which are currently in force on a provisional basis. Secondly, today I heard here that the Law on Administrative Taxes is similarly confirmed, with no agreement being given to put it in the procedure now, but that's where it stands. So we have, now we don't talk about what four documents are, with the Administrative Tax Act... Also, since I wrote this proposal, I will not write it again, but I would really ask it to be trained here, I noticed that point c)11 of this day is the paper we received, the accepted Information that the Council of Ministers of BiH submits a report on the execution of the budget in six months this year and that's good. Secondly, I, in my own time, think that the 2nd or 3rd session was, launched an initiative in the form of a council issue, to analyse the operational unrealisation of decisions and conclusions of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes from the previous call, with a proposal for concrete measures to implement them. I talked to Mr. Žigić a little bit, we tried to find it there at point c)6. Where the tasks are discussed, the Information on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but we don't fit, so I would ask that we go back to the part where something was being decided – it worked, and it's not finished, we have that information, that we know how to re-renationalise our activity. 11 And finally, let me say, I absolutely support this package of laws that was put at the end of the document, in terms of the motions of MPs, etc., it seems to me, the documents that will enter into the procedure, but let us have a little bit of equal treatment and stay on the backdrop of the decision that we have made on time, how to treat the proposals of MPs, initiatives and laws, to respect our own decision. Therefore, it cannot be here without mentioning what Mirsad Ćeman proposed, proposed by Zlatko Lagumdžija, which Ivo Divković and Sejfudin Tokić suggested. Let it go, just as Mr. Avdo said, let it go in the process, and whether or not it will pass, that's what we'll decide. And another suggestion, we cannot accept that in September, when we take this paper that is before us now, I believe that it will experience a certain innovation in a positive sense, that in September we have four questions and that in October, November and December we remain 20 and change issues, I think we need to redinemise activities through this programme. I think that would be good, with that point where we are talking about parliamentary delegations, I think it's high time that, by the College, or I don't know who should do this, a schedule of people who should make up this house and the parliamentary group that are going to go, I'm not talking about advice for the level of Europe, etc., but these parliamentary visits that will be made towards the members of the Stability Pact and the countries of the region, or neighbouring countries, because there is no exclusive right that, possibly, no one is walking at all and that no one is walking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u263	Thank you. Part of the application has already been introduced here in the Programme, so I think it has been respected, partly by Mr Herceg Mugdim, that the College of both homes will constantly monitor the implementation of the decision – the conclusions of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes with a proposal for measures to implement them, as well as the programme of work of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the period August-December 1999, as the starting point for the preparation of the work programme, means the work programme for 2000. So, in some ways, an analysis of everything we've concluded or made decisions, with the preparation of the program, will be carried out, so that we know where we left off. Simply this approach must be made and it has already entered the work programme. As far as these other remarks are concerned, they are also partially accepted, but we will have a chance to discuss all suggestions once again at both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, to discuss and, possibly, to supplement this programme of work on a better basis or to correct it. Who's next to the word? If there are no more debaters, I would like to conclude, with these suggestions and remarks made today in today's debate on this point, which is the Work Programme of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the period August-December 1999. I would suggest that all the comments and suggestions made today or in the previous procedure be discussed at the College of the House with representatives of clubs and political parties, before the continuation of the session of this house, by proposing that it be 9 September 1999 at 5:00 p.m. in the afternoon, and that I am Dom, given that the delegates or MPs of the order of the Hrvat, because of their busyness in the 12 weeks after 10th, suggested that it be September 15th, i.e. Continue the session to be Wednesday September 15th. The exact time of the session will be determined later, by preparing all proposals by then, i.e., agreeing on these proposals and preparing for the talks of the Colleges and representatives of political parties, i.e. the Members' Clubs, in order to reach the Proposal for a Programme of Work of this House and in the follow-up of the session, that would mean that, in the follow-up of the session of interventions on the Work Programme, they would be in the form of amendments. So the general debate would be over with this. Who's up for such a proposal? Thank you very much. We realized that we unanimously adopted such a proposal for a conclusion, that is, the conclusion. There's no need to vote on clubs. This point has been removed, on a sustained Stability Pact, I interrupt the work of this session and I schedule a follow-up on September 15, 1999. Thank you all. The seat was interrupted at 6 p.m. Place 13 TRANSCRIPT (Note) O I would like to inform you, on behalf of the Collegiate of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that for today, the continuation of the 8th and 9th session and the holding of the 11th session of the House of Peoples, where we were to discuss the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH and to hold a general debate on the draft of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and to give some consent, i.e., the agreement between BiH and governments, i.e. the state, a certain number of states, is that for today, given that there has not been a sufficient number of MPs from the order of the Croatian people, this session was postponed for Friday 3:12.1999 at 11 p.m.m. At this session, which would work on the same agenda, we envisioned the establishment of the draft electoral laws, with ratification of another agreement between the Council of Europe and BiH. I think for the next session, 3.12, we're going to have a quorum and we're going to work uninterrupted on the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u265	I'm the one who called in to correct the vice president's misrepresentation. Namely, we have no quorum for two reasons, because the Bosniak Club and the Croatian Representatives Club do not have three representatives present at the session. If I understood the question correctly, the journalist asked if this had anything to do with yesterday's events. I don't know what these events are. I can only say that Pero Marković is sick, that Ivo Živković from Posavina appeared somewhere today in the morning to Šoljić that he cannot come and that Pero Mađar is on his official trip to Paris in front of the House of the Federation of BiH Parliament, as president of that House of the Federation of BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I just wanted to point out for the public that we have no quorum here for two reasons, because only two Hrvat and only two Bošnjak are present at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u266	Corrections work, we've had previous meetings committees. I said exactly, and this part was agreed at the College to address the College to media and the public, that we can't hold a session just for the reason I said. The delegates of these other two nations are present and may the session, as far as the other delegates are concerned, begin. This isn't opening or closing a session, it's just noting the public, which is why we delayed today's session. This isn't a session because we agreed that we wouldn't work anywhere where there's no quorum. 14
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u267	It's a public deception, let it, determine whether there's a quorum or not. It can't be done like this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u268	Because we're officially informed there's no quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u269	From who? You can't decide for yourself. Ask the club presidents. We can't have a session like this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u270	Thank you very much. First, let me welcome you all, MPs, delegates, present representatives of the international community, as well as the media gentlemen. For today's session, we predicted we'd be working in two parts. In the first part, we would go with the continuation of the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, where we would discuss the Programme of the People's Labour for the November-December 1999 period and the continuation of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of BiH, after which we would come to work for the 11th session of the People's Parliament Assembly of BiH, according to the proposed agenda you received. For a follow-up, as I have already told you, we have left an obligation at the 8th session to discuss the programme of the work of the House of Peoples for this period which has remained until the end of the year and I am opening the extension of this session with one item of the agenda, which is the Programme of Work of the Peoples for 1999 I am opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u272	Dear guests, Mr. President, first of all, I apologize for not speaking about this agenda, if you allow me, as a representative, I would use my right to counsel, to address myself purely for moral reasons, if you allow me to say that again in connection with the current time, i.e., with this why we are less in the O.R. today than we usually do, as representatives. If you'll excuse me, two or three minutes, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u273	I'd be begging at the beginning of the 11th session to get on with it and to work now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u274	I apologize, I beg you for one reason, because, as a representative, first of all for moral reasons, I cannot begin my parliamentary duty here, nor may I raise my hand or not raise my hand, for that I have begged you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u275	Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u276	I would like to say a few words as a representative of the Croatian people here, as an envoy from the County Assembly of the Herzegovina-Neretva County, a canton, as a representative of the House of the People of the Federation of BiH and as a representative of the PSBiH House, these two last in office because I was elected on the list as a representative from the County of Herzegovina-Neretva, because these are the rules of electoral law. On three levels, I am also a representative in connection with my mandate and in connection with the duties of MPs, i.e. with the dignity of MPs and on the latest decisions of the High Representative on the dispute of the mandate of a few of my colleagues, first of all, I would talk about my colleague Peri Madžar, who is the president of the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, and the basis of his mission and fellow representative in this Assembly of the House of Peoples. As you can see, there are fewer here today than usual, we usually get 3 times 5, that's 15. I wouldn't go for reasons, I honestly say that, why we're less today, why some of the fellow MPs are not here, whose latest decision by the High Representative has challenged the term of office in the Assembly. I wouldn't talk about the reasons why it's... but I'd only talk about one reason, that's the way we've lost a colleague here today. Honestly, as a man, as a representative, I must say that I in this home, working for a year, no harm, no human rights position, no injury to anyone I've heard from Pere Madžar, and no other representatives who are not here, therefore, I, as a representative, worry that their mandates have been challenged. I sincerely hope that, as a representative in this home, I will have something more than that argument that I could read in the press, or in the means of communication, about these sins, about those reasons why our fellow MPs are challenged. I'm truly saying, as a representative, I'm sorry that this is so, not out of pure pathetics, gentlemen, but out of human dignity. I'll just mention one example, Mr. President, and with that I'd like to finish, I apologize. Imagine now Mr. Pero Madžar, our colleague is a representative in Canton, ie, Central Bosnia County and runs a club of representatives. He is a representative in the House of Peoples and president of the Federation of BiH House of Peoples. He's a fellow representative here. I am also a representative at the House of the Federation of BiH and how we will begin this session if he is president and, according to our rules of procedure, the only one can begin the session, call a session, and his mandate is challenged. It'll probably change some rules that are in force so far. About that, in order not to be the only concern of a high representative and here we are sitting, I have the right, as a representative, to ask this question. The way this was done, me, I honestly say, as a representative discourages. So I would have one proposal, Mr. President, I think you'll agree with me if we here, as advocates today, if we can't have an explanation here as soon as possible for this speaker why today there is no colleague among us today whose mandate has been challenged, therefore, the mandate in this highest house has been challenged, because as a representative, I would like to know, and as a man, in the end, not entering, I say, for reasons. I never once talked about it, I just talked about the way, I mean, not being around people sleeping. Let's not be numbers here, forgive me, to be human, to be reasonable beings, let us, however, get an explanation here why we are less today. I will only then, with full conscience, and raise my hands as I am now, but today, forgive me, today, my right here is only as a representative, out of courtesy. I thank you for giving me your word on this subject. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u277	If you'd agree, we'd like to move on to a debate over the "Home of the People's" Work Programme for '99. A year, it's a sequel to the 8th session. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u278	Gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we have less than a month left for us by the end of the year. Our program is about as small as it would be if it covered half a year. Against will and against logic, I agreed to this programme only so that the Croatian side would not be treated as the one blocking the adoption of the Programme. I'll give you one example. This program is about laws that none of us know what they're talking about, what matter they're processing, and they're like urgent and important. I know it's an uncle, but I've accepted that with the sole purpose of adopting this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u279	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, last time there was no adoption of this law for one reason why it was not known exactly what Mr. Šoljić was saying, which are the laws that will be current in this period of November/December. However, if we had accepted it last time, we would have known by now. In some ways we are late, and I suggest today that this law be passed, means that we do not have much controversy about it, since the House of Representatives has already passed and that we move on to work, so what we can do in the next two months is succeed, but it will surely force us into some increased urgency in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u280	I would like first of all to say that I support this programme seriously and responsibly, regardless of what is said to be a certain delay, first of all, that we are creating through this one assumption of including, normally, active work on established tasks, by creating assumptions for BiH's involvement in the Council of Europe. In the context of this, it is certainly to expect the full activity of all of us who are in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to do the projected tasks in this document, to sort of compensate for the time left behind. In the context of this, I would indeed express one doubt, as a man, in the sense of asking whether BiH will truly be accepted into the Council of Europe without the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or both of the peoples' homes being declared here on a set of laws, or specifically on four laws that are in force, adopted by High Representative Karlos Vestendorp, and rather I remind myself of the Law on Citizenship, Pardon, Law on the State Anthem, Law on the flag, the Law on the coat of arms, the Law on administrative fees of BiH. We will, quite certainly, have answers to certain questions related to this section in the Programme under c) Information-analytical activity, points 1, 2 and 5, but I'm afraid, given this one, we will have quite late, and they are already for these 2c points. and 5c. in this chapter, the deadlines would be to ensure, in a certain way, that in the coming period, we put ourselves in the process as soon as possible, in addition to this information, a statement on these laws which are still in temporary force and adopted by the High Representative or, respectively, the OHR. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-0.u281	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If it does not appear, can we approach the declaration under the Work Programme of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which is in the same form as the House of Representatives adopted. Who's in? I'm asking you all to plead. Thank you very much. Since it's unanimous, I don't think there's any need for us to plead out in clubs, peoples. I realize that we unanimously adopted the Work Programme for, practically, the rest of the year, that is, for 1999, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, thus closing the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The seat's finished at 12.05.
