ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2339	MPs and respected guests, I am opening the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear Members, before I begin my work at this session, I would like to inform you of the following. When I entered the building, this morning I was prevented from entering because it was asked to be examined, and me and things, which I did not allow, as chairman of this House. Because if I'm suspected of being some kind of potential terrorist or I don't know what else, then I don't belong here. I went into the building, invited a member of the Secretariat to ask the boy who ordered it. He said he was ordered by his boss and that he wouldn't write a written statement about who ordered him to do it. I'm taking a 30-minute break, looking for two MP clubs from Republika Srpska, and please, the session will begin as soon as you see who's the boss of that guy who's allowed himself to intercept and prevent the chairman from entering this house. I'm scheduled to proceed at 13.00 hours. [[/After a break.]] I warmly welcome and thank you for having responded to our session and thank you so much for joining us in our work. I received a report from the Secretariat that there are 14 MPs from Republika Srpska and 17 MPs from the Federation of BiH. I'm obliged to inform you, before work begins, that I've received a statement, I don't want it discussed at the session, it's a matter for the College. We have to solve the issue of security of this facility both externally and internally at the College and I ask you not to make any political speculation out of this. I don't want to politicize this issue, but it's about time this issue was resolved. So, I think we should get rid of him. I, as the man who set this problem, do not want to discuss it. There's a place where we can work this out. And I think we can handle it. Here, MP. I'm asking the MP not to discuss this subject, and the other one can. Here, there's one before he answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2340	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It would all be like the chairman said if he hadn't mentioned two presidents of the MPs' club. If the chairman got the information, then I want to know it and I don't want to open two discussions. But if you bring us into the fog like geese, then you will discuss it later, it is not at least correct. That's it. I have no idea who informed me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2341	Thank you very much. You'll get multiple information, club presidents, first break. I just wanted us not to politicize this issue because it doesn't deserve that kind of attention. Here you go. poslanik Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2342	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, MPs. The question was politicized the moment it was placed as a reason for a half-hour break. And because of the dignity of all MPs, I insist that the information you have received be forwarded to all MPs without debate, because that is the only way we can explain why we all paused for half an hour. As for my personal position, I stand at the point that this problem could have been resolved without this half-hour break. This once again shows the inefficient functioning of the Kolegijum and the kind of concept on which you act that we, as MPs, are the hostages of your disagreements.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2343	Thank you very much, Ambassador. I'm obliged to answer him now. These are the words that, like, so maybe they're not the most appropriate, this hostage thing, but let me tell you, this is the third time that I've had some problems that I didn't think I should meet Parliament and I didn't think we should be dealing with right now with technical problems that can easily be solved. I accept the suggestion of the MPs to pass the note, though, I see, there is one inaccuracy in it, but concerning it, I will send her as it is to you. That's not at all controversial. I ask the Secretariat to multiply and deliver. I'm asking you to close this part of the story with this. I ask the MPs not to discuss it, and I agree with MP Tokić that it is time to take it off the agenda once. These are questions that deserve no attention, no time for MPs. From the Secretariat, I was informed that the absence from the session announced: Ivo Mijačević due to the disease, Mr Pero Skopljak, also, due to the illness, Adnan Jahić was officially absent, Haris Silajdžić, Ivo Lozančić and Zlatko Lagumdžija. From the BiH Council of Ministers, the absence was announced by Husein Živalj. Mr. Rasim Kadić announced that he would be late for the session due to previously agreed commitments. I find, therefore, gentlemen, that the predstavnički of Representatives has a quorum and that it can work properly because the sittings are attended by 31 MPs. The College agreed to propose the following agenda for this session: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Proposal for a law on the revision of BiH institutions, 3. Proposal for a Law on solution to the problem in BiH in 2000, 4. Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of BiH, 5.The Commission's report on constitutional and legal issues on the implementation of the voting procedure on the draft law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, 6. MPs' questions. 3 We have delivered to you two more points in the agenda where we have agreed. It is a report and an analysis of the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Report on the request of the BiH MPs' Club for the issue of passports to a foreign citizen. The proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH Kolegijum not reached its agreement, but has a proposal by one of the members of the Kolegijum to put the item separately to the vote, and we will put it segregated. We removed these two points regarding the Council of Ministers of BiH and their obligations set out in the last session. We didn't get the report. Here, five minutes ago, a memo came to me. I'll read it to you. Of course, you reserve the right, as MPs, to discuss these points or others you would suggest, but the Kolegijum did not consider that we should discuss points for which we do not have the materials and we could not deliver them in time because they were not delivered to us. I read you a memo signed by the co-chair of Svetozar Mihajlović, who arrived to me, I said, five minutes ago. With regard to the report and the analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, which was scheduled for consideration at the 11th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, we inform you of the following: The Council of Ministers of BiH of 23.9.1999 was unable to hold its session due to the official absence of most of its members: participation in the work of the UN General Assembly, General Assembly of the World Bank, and an official visit to the United States. For these reasons, the BiH Council of Ministers could not prepare a report on its work for the past period. We note that the BiH Council of Ministers will discuss the issue of a work report at its first next session. With respect. I read you what I got right now. I'm opening a discussion on the agenda. poslanik Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2344	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, on behalf of the Representatives' Club, and on behalf of the agenda, I would like to make the following statements: The Social Democratic Party's Club is requesting that, in the context of today's session, a report on the Stability Pact, i.e. the organisation of the Stability Pact - a financial part, which the Council of Ministers of BiH did not deliver in addition to the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, to deliver for this session. To include the agenda item within the framework of last session, as a commitment by the BiH Council of Ministers, which is a reference to the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision. That's the conclusion of the House of Representatives from last session. In view of the formulations and attitudes expressed in the reports of BiH's committees in the Council of Europe, and I will quote only one point of view, point 21, the Committee on Legal and Human Affairs reports where the mission is said to be a delegation of this Council of Europe's Committee, although it was hopeful at first, it was found that implementation is late compared to the plan, so they concluded that it is too early to give the green light for reception. You know that during the summer, we held several debates here on the need to fulfil all obligations and the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency and this home to ensure BiH's admission to the Council of Europe at the September session. And we have an epilogue like this. At the same time, the Social Democratic Party is against removing the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers from the agenda. We are opposed to removing the Information on the issuing of passports, i.e., an initiative submitted by the Social Democratic Party Club to this 4 home, which was included in the draft agenda. And we are against the fact that the proposal for a holiday law that we delivered in early June and, according to the Constitution, to the Rules of Procedure, implemented all the necessary procedures and got the consent of the Constitutional Committee to come to the agenda, so that no College can be placed above the constitutional position and the rights of MPs in this House. I insist on putting this on the agenda. And if the Council of Ministers of BiH, during this session, which does not have to be completed today, because this is a dramatic moment, or a representative of the Council of Ministers, says that the Council of Ministers cannot respond to these obligations during the meeting, I propose, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Club, that this high house makes one single move that can still restore the dignity and trust of this House, which is to open the debate, the procedure of the shift, recalling the Council of Ministers which is so unseriously treating the highest parliamentary home in this country. There's a lot of reasons. I'll only point out one. The BiH Council of Ministers has been counter-constitutional. Not responding to all these obligations for months set by this House, stopping the transition process of the Bosnian Herzegovina society and still sticking to the communist laws, this country rests on laws that were passed seventy and some, Mr. Tomić, and 80 and some and Prlić. By stopping the process of applying the peace agreement, BiH's central institutions are responsible for the application of Annex 7, the return of refugees and exiles. This Council of Ministers of BiH represents one of the most responsible institutions why the Dayton Peace Agreement is not being implemented and halting BiH's involvement in European, Euro-Atlantic integration, even in the first step where all countries, in the Council of Europe, are long ago, except for Belarus and the SR of Yugoslavia. I think that this brief explanation, expressed here, should be an argument that if a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers, after this discussion, is not ready to provide the necessary information, in a continuous session, for this session, that this point be put forward as a priority – a new item of the agenda, including the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers under the point of issue of passports, i.e. information, conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2345	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, I just want one thing to be clear. It's not about taking the holiday law off the agenda. I ask that you know, but it is a matter of not reaching agreement in the College, and will then be put to the vote under a special point – separated from the agreed agenda. So he'll be put to the vote. We didn't take it off. And we did take off, right now, these two points and about your proposal we will plead. There's no problem here. I would like to inform Parliament – House of Representatives, MPs, therefore, that here are copies of the memos on issues that the Council of Ministers of BiH was to deliver to us and here are these conclusions. In time, it wasn't delivered, and in the end, we're here to discuss. I'm asking Mr Spahić to speak because he asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2346	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, guests of the Parliamentary Assembly, allow me to discuss the agenda to ask three questions and make three proposals. First, there is no doubt that the agenda cannot be removed from the point we agreed on. That would be unnatural. If we agreed to have information and an analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, then that's what we should have. There is now no question at all how and in what way we can ensure that we respect our own decisions, 5 but it is about how to get an analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Could today's session, when we are discussing the agenda, be quite precise to the BiH Council of Ministers, as Mr Mihajlović, co-chaired by the Council of Ministers of BiH, has responded to the House of Representatives – precisely whether it is possible to do so in one, two, three days. Whether we will get, whether we have a session of the BiH Council of Ministers that will determine the report tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, next week. So we need to get a very clear answer whether we're going to sit here and wait for that report and analysis so that we can talk or we can let it run its course until some next session of November, October, etc. So the first question to be answered by a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers is when the meeting of the Council of Ministers is on which the analysis and the work report will be established and whether we will get it in two or three days. Because as far as I understand from this call, from this agenda, there's no way we're gonna finish today's work alone. Parliament has a permanent session, as agreed in August, or September, and it is quite acceptable for us to wait here for the report, to discuss it. It is very important for me to receive an additional response from the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. We can take a break, get them to agree and let them answer when they're gonna do it. In order for us, however, to work, quite clearly, in accordance with the competences, not to have a debate on which we have no document, and we have here a written document that, seeing that the Council of Ministers of BiH is now consolidated, that most ministers are there, that the chairman, Mr. Mihajlović, will, as far as I know, be here for this period because this letter has been sent. I don't know why he's not here today, but I think that's the way it should be done. The other thing I'd like to say about the Work Programme is our duty. We have adopted a document called the Resolution on European Integration and on the role of BiH in the Pact for Southeast Europe, the Stability Pact, and, above all, it would be quite right for a report to be found before us – since it is a Parliament document, we have given ourselves the task of in coordination with the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and entities and entity assemblies and governments to provide information under: First, what exactly is who did it in relation to the accession to the Council of Europe. So entities and their governments and what the BiH presidency did, or the BiH Council of Ministers. We didn't get that information until today. This is October already. It's a document that we've adopted almost by consensus, and it's illogical that we don't have that information. So I'm asking to put it on the agenda. Whether it will arrive today or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow – I think for the first time maybe we'll be in session one week by the weekend, and then by the weekend, we'll see what we'll do. But we shouldn't leave the parliamentary benches until we get what we agreed on. If we don't get that from the BiH presidency, from the BiH Council of Ministers, from governments, parliaments, entities, I'm afraid we'll be in a position to devalue our own agreements. In this regard, of course, the fact that it would be correct by the chairman of the Council of Europe delegation, Mr Bičakčić, to submit in the course of this session information on how he would explain the results of Bosnia and Herzegovina's work and the state institutions of BiH, entity and all its institutions mentioned in that document, as he presented the work of our institutions to prepare for the entry into the Council of Europe. I expect one such report. It was in the papers, but that's not enough, we're Parliament. We need to get a report from that delegation. We've obliged that delegation to file a report. Secondly, I expect a report from the MIP representative, Mr Prlić, who had very significant contacts, as we followed in the press, during the meeting of the UN General Assembly, had one noticeable statement, contacts with statesmen from all over the 6 world. It would be perfectly fine if Parliament was informed of the policy BiH today can build its position. I noticed that he mentioned that, let's say, the key problem is home to people, refugees and displaced people. I see here today the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum for BiH. I think, in this context, it would be important for him to address Parliament and information on what he said there and what contacts at the level of the delegations that were there. And third, I want to ask as a problem and as a question. At last session, thanks to the information I received from Vice-President Neven Tomić, I said that I am pleased that the Council of Ministers of BiH officially accepted the initiative given by four MPs and directed by Mr Banjac and Žigić to both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to present us with information on the economic and social situation in BiH and the measures planned by the Council of Ministers of BiH and other institutions taken in the competencies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina state authorities. I think it is correct, for the sake of both homes' dignity and for the dignity of the College, to respond to how far it has arrived in this work, because there has been enough information, and now there is Minister Kurtović. I think Mr. Kurtović should say what he's doing on that plan. I tried to get information from the Statistics Agency today. It's an official BiH institution, one of the few we have. I must say that I have been responsible and, behold, I would now like to publicly present three newsletters of this agency and I do not know if any of the MPs have formally received these three newsletters, and we are MPs who need to talk seriously about the problems that are in BiH based on the movement in the economy, based on the social situation, etc. I doubt any MP has ever seen this document before. Maybe college. But if there's an MP, a colleague, or a colleague, if they saw this, it would be my pleasure to comment on it together, perhaps at some of the next discussions. But I asked the Agency to tell me why the MPs didn't have it. They said they were delivering professional services to the government, the Council of Ministers of BiH, that they were only three bulletins and not to be delivered to Parliament, but to the Kolegijum. I asked that it be corrected, that in the future every MP, 42, informs us of the important decision-making issues concerning the areas of development of our society and our population, and employment and economy, etc. In addition to other information from the BiH Council of Ministers, I think it would be correct today to get information on when BiH's economic policy will be on the agenda from the authority of state institutions. I ask Mr. Kurtović or Tomić to answer us today, to tell us if they have any intention of putting it on the agenda by the end of the year. If they will not deliver these materials, as far as I know, according to our Rules of Procedure, if I am not mistaken, then we as MPs will collect all relevant documents, deliver them to the MPs, prepare the presentation and propose a proposal for conclusions. Because we simply cannot allow ourselves to pass time here, never to talk about the economic problems of the country, the people, what people live on. This has really become an entirely single story room that doesn't lead to anything. No relevant document from BiH's authority on economic policy and social situation in the country was on the agenda. I just have the right to ask for it. I believe I share your opinion. After all, you've all supported it. The college supported it. It is time for the BiH Council of Ministers to respond to that. And finally, I am asking the Kolegijum of our home, but also the College of the House of Peoples to answer whether this means, which is not in the agenda of a harmonised draft agenda, the Work Programme of the BiH Parliament, that Parliament has given up its own work programme? Does this mean that the College has no solution to how to get out of the basic point, how to organize in the work, and what to talk about in the next period? It's said, don't speak again until the end of the year. We'll talk about it 7 to 2000. But, please, we have given no authority to the Kolegijum not to deliver before us, not to deliver all initiatives and proposals to the MPs, to reach consensus, to get to our own work programme. Here, we will question the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers. Okay, and that's quite correct. We've already opened it. We are asking a question in the context of the BiH Constitutional Court, what will happen to the BiH Council of Ministers in those months, two days? But we as Parliament must secure our own functions without the programme, without the Rules of Procedure and without our own involvement, there is nothing of it. Please respond to the College and I propose, on behalf of, I cannot yet propose an individual break, but I propose a break, after a debate on the agenda, of 30 minutes for the College to agree on these issues, call on the phone or send an official request to the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, sits together with the College and decide what, in fact, we expect from this Parliament. What is this permanent session where all the points regarding the lives of BiH citizens are missing? And of course I support that the agenda, as proposed by the College, is respected. I can't figure out how to put something on the agenda, and then it pulls back. And, on the other hand, it's incorrect to the Rules of Procedure. If it is a minimum of seven days to get information and discuss it, it is incorrect that today we have agreed points on the agenda for which five times before the beginning of the session you do not have a written or oral response from the Council of Ministers of BiH and you have no document on which we have discussed. Yet these are the people who came from all over BiH. They dedicated this day to their work. We invited guests to talk about it, invited the Council of Ministers of BiH, and we are opening a debate on something we do not have at all. And for me, it is not an acceptable method for Parliament to work at all. That's all there is to it that without a work programme, you go like a rudder on a ship that you don't know where they're going to hit. I think there is no reason for us to see it this way, and that is why I ask that the College be appointed according to these initiatives that I bear as an MP for this House.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2347	Your Honour, time has passed. I really didn't know if these were parliamentary issues or whether it was a debate on the agenda because there was both. I want to tell you, Mr. Dokić, so Mrs. Suada. I'll just answer the MP. There are documents here, conclusions that were submitted in time to the BiH Council of Ministers and, if they are to be multiplied, can also be multiplied. That's not controversial. As a Kolegijum, we don't have those powers, or physical powers that we don't want to use, or any others to ask them to do. And the reasons why they didn't do it I don't know. Of course we'll take the suggestions to get the dots into the agenda. We were in charge of the following, if we didn't have the materials to send you, what are we going to talk about, so it wouldn't be what the fellow MP says: That's why we're taking it off the agenda. We don't mind putting those dots on the agenda, but you must know that we as a College didn't get within the deadline and requested rock material and that on our part it's correct that we don't do it. The second thing, as far as the work programme is concerned, I would like, indeed, that there have been references to Parliament's conclusions here, I would also like to refer to the Parliament's conclusion, which, when it comes to the work programme, reads: by the end of the tenth month, the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers its agreed programme and, on the basis of this programme and the initiative of MPs, the Kolegjum, Members' clubs, draft work programme. Nothing has come to this day Look, guarantees are what Mr. Tokić suggested we open the debate, let's see, and guarantees are that the Council of Ministers of BiH comes out and says what happens under those points. [[STAMMERS]] Because I don't know, I can't guess now, and the College can't guess what the reason is, what's going on. Of course, and I don't agree with this that five minutes or half an hour after the session is on its way. You're absolutely right. I ask you, while I give my word, to bring these suggestions into line with the Secretariat so that they may be considered. Thank you very much. The poslanik Dokić, then the apostle Suad Muminagić, and then the Messenger Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2348	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I think it is too ambitious that, by adopting the agenda, we highlight a number of problems that a Parliament in its two-year term is dealing with. Let's keep that in mind. And in order to stick to what I want to suggest, I'm going to go straight to a very specific point. I support Mr. Tokić's proposal not to take the report on the work of the Council of Ministers off the agenda. But obviously, we can't even finish today's session. My suggestion is that this item of the agenda be not today but to continue this session. So, I suggest we put it on the agenda and ask the BiH Council of Ministers for a reasonable time and a report and a debate on it. Because all that has been said so far in the context of the Council of Ministers' work and what we have been talking about so far, it may also be the subject of a day-long debate at the BiH Assembly. The second thing I would suggest is that it enters the agenda, without obligation to consider today, but to stay for that extension is the work programme by the end of this year. We, with a little goodwill, with a minimum of goodwill, stress now, correct, with a minimum of goodwill, we can adopt in the form in which it will be enough to meet the Commission's first condition of the Council of Europe to join the Council of Europe. So whoever isn't ready for that minimum, then, deceives us about wanting to create conditions so that we can be admitted to the Council of Europe as soon as possible. So, I suggest we get this point into the agenda, and let's keep it going and agree on that minimum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2349	Thank you. Ambassador Suad Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2350	Members of the Parliament, gentlemen of the chairman, I am not sure that I am well aware of whether item 5 of the proposals has been removed from the agenda: The Central Bank's reply to the House of Representatives' conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2351	It's not off the agenda. She's in sync. Read error, it will be read, not downloaded. poslanik Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2352	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests. I think that all those who passed the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH were following and perhaps somewhere and feeling what I was demanding then, perhaps not okay, here, today came into the situation to make sure that by any chance we had a proposal or initiative to recall the Council of Ministers or to replace the Council of Ministers, then we would have this report that we had argued about last time. We're not 9 today. We can discuss the report. Because Bog knows which way the Council of Ministers of BiH does not feel the need to communicate in such a way with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH representative council. He does not feel the need to submit information on the financial part related to the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, which was pointed out by counterpart Tokić. He does not feel obliged to submit a report on information that, unfortunately, has shaken democratic Europe and a democratic world related to the arrest of the first co-worker, the world's first terrorist, in BiH. He does not feel the need to tell BiH citizens whether it will be worse or better and what is in the power of the BiH Council of Ministers. That's why I'm only proposing to reshape the agenda point, to stand: The launch of an initiative to replace the BiH Council of Ministers or recalls, I don't know what is by law and by the Constitution. As part of this, there will probably be written information and clues and it may end in the next two or three sessions, but mainly to show that the Council of Ministers of BiH or the Council of Ministers is the body appointed or elected by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council and that once in this country, things line up as the BiH Constitution requires. So, I ask to include the agenda point: the Stability Pact Report – the financial part. A review of the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision, too. Information on admission, a new item of the agenda, to BiH citizenship Amdouni Neftez. Under 12, a report by the BiH delegation in the Council of Europe and other delegations concerning members of the international committees from this Parliament, and here, I will now say why. There is one committee of parliament of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which participates in the work of the Central European Initiative. We had an agreement a month and a half ago that a parliamentary delegation should attend an international meeting. Today I learned that MPs, let's say under quotes, from the Federation of BiH, had no funds and that that's why these other MPs who had provided financial resources, but we didn't get an interpretation of why we didn't go and who made the decision that our presence was not good at all. Unfortunately, the situation is repeated – we have a call from the CEI Parliamentary Conference in Prague on 6 October. One of the MPs from the Bosniak people has cancelled. I was in Sarajevo yesterday, so they told me that I was traveling tomorrow morning, so I went back to Banja Luka to prepare myself, and then I found out that Avdo Čampara is informing, you know, since the delegation is not complete, so he said: Mr Avdo Čampara agreed with Nedžada Rajković, the first BiH Embassy secretary in Vienna to cover and the Czech Republic to be in the service of the translator of the delegation in Prague. Gentlemen, either the BiH delegation will perform as a team or it is better not to go. That's why I'm saying it's good that both Mr. Bičakčić and Mrs. Ibro said it well, Mediha Filipović, submitted a report, as written material has been discussed recently. We need to see clearly what the position of the BiH parliamentary delegation is. Whether she has the strength to have an attitude or those are individual attitudes. If BiH, as it is with the Constitution and Dayton, wants to have its future. Since it breaks on the Commission where I am - I said the map comes back. I am sorry, of course, for the host state's sake not to attend, but it once again speaks with what level of seriousness the highest authorities, well, here is the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH's attention to the problem. And related to the College's proposal to consider the proposal for a law on the holidays of BiH, as I understand it, in a separate procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2353	No, I don't. The College has not reached agreement but, given that a member of the College is asking to go to the agenda, it will be voted on separately from the agreed agenda. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2354	Of course, by analysing the agenda, I suggest that, of course, there is a need and I don't think any of the MPs want to slow it down, to pass the Law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's undeniable. I propose that a constitutional procedure be implemented on obtaining a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Holidays of BiH, and that this proposal should be removed from the agenda until the constitutional basis is obtained. But to be on the line of what I said needed to do, you know that perhaps 20 days ago, visiting BiH's top state leadership was Mr. Holbruk, that then the BiH presidency, at least it was presented to the public in one way that delighted, accepted that the state holiday of BiH would be the date of signing the Dayton Agreement when BiH was created like this. The proposal was met with the enthusiasm of the president of one of the world's most developed states, and it seems to me that some of the congratulations in that direction have been sent to the President of the United States. That some of the citizens of Dayton who admire such a move by the state's highest leadership were exchanged, so I suggest that we move to the beginning, in the form of a parliamentary conclusion, to declare the date as a state holiday for Bosnia and Herzegovina, that we have at least one holiday until this agreement is reached on the constitutional basis for the adoption of the BiH holiday law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2355	Please, MP, submit your proposals to the Secretariat so I can put it to the vote. Is anyone else answering for a discussion on the agenda? Is there anyone else? There isn't. Now we can approach. Please, I suggest you vote next way. On a harmonised agenda by the Kolegijum, as a whole, and then especially how the MPs suggested we go dot by point. Do you have any objections to what I said? It can't be any different. No objections. Tokić's got his head up, I thought he was trying to say something. poslanik Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2356	I would only ask, is there a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers? Here very specific issues have been raised before, given the demands and moods of most MPs, a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers should come out to say something. It's purely for courtesy, and I don't expect anything more important to be said, but purely for courtesy, for courtesy. Several MPs asked the BiH Council of Ministers and elemental jurisdiction, Bonton demanded that the BiH Council of Ministers' representative say something now. I don't think there's much to say, but it would be good to try to answer these questions. And about the initiative, that is, Mr Špirić's discussion. I would just say here that it is obvious, as one of the legislators of the Law on Holidays, that there is a need to conduct a debate on the matter to try to initiate and resolve it here, and in this context, given the suggestion of the Constitutional Commission, I, as a proposing, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party's Club, accept that today is talking about the draft of the holiday law and that in this context different opinions are being tested regarding possible joint holidays without entering the content which is also on the line of what Špirić said. So, not the form of the proposal, but the form of the draft to discuss a series of ambiguities, and the media attention to all of this. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2357	Thank you very much, Ambassador. Does anyone from the Council of Ministers want to speak? From what I've seen, they say the memo is there. So there's nothing I can do to change that. I have a reaction, Mr. MP -- they say there is, a memo we got, it's read and they say they have nothing to say. Therefore, I must go to the adoption of the agenda. So you have no objection, as far as I can tell, no one in the proposed way of working on the adoption of the agenda. I'm reading a harmonised part of the agenda by the Kolegijum. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. A proposal for a law on problem-solving in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Spiric, perhaps you just need to read and it's all there. No, no, no, that's all there says, you just need to see the point, just the order. I didn't know you had to say everything. I thought there was something going on. I said it first. [[STAMMERS]] So you didn't hear me say it first, either. Here, now I'll say it again first. Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Proposal for a Law on solution to the problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. The Commission's report on constitutional and legal issues on the implementation of the voting procedure on the draft law establishing a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, 6. Central Bank of BiH's response to House of Representatives' conclusion No 03-152/99 of 3.9.1999, 7. MPs' questions and suggestions. It's the agenda agreed by the College. That's our proposal. Of course, we'll get to him first and then we'll talk about every extra point that's been spoken of here and we'll make a statement. Who's for the draft agenda, I'm sorry, how many are present, please establish. 31. Thank you very much. 31 present. Who's in favour of this agenda proposal? There's absolutely a supplement. This is just the harmonized part. 27. Who's against it? 4. That's 31. There's no need for entities for numbers. This part of the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to the MPs' proposals. Ambassador Sejfudin Tokić has proposed to include a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers in which, I say immediately, the second point that Tokić has made, and this is about the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, because in the same letter under this point, it has gone, so that is where the debate is meant and so I suggest, MP, that you accept this. 12 Who is to put this point on the agenda? A report and an analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers with special reference to the Constitutional Court Decision. The MP's asking for a vote on that. Is it true, MP? That way, I read what the man suggested. Ambassador, I apologize if it's wrong to see what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2358	No, no, I just want to clarify, I think there was Mr. Dokić on that line of discussion and this proposal. We insist that the BiH Council of Ministers, the debate on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, be put on the agenda at this session. If the Council of Ministers of BiH does not deliver this item of the agenda, it was my proposal, it does not submit a report, it is not ready to respond to the obligation established by the House of Representatives at the previous session, within this session, then within that part of the agenda, the process of recalling the BiH Council of Ministers which, otherwise, I do not believe in their status anymore, except that they still need to be represented worldwide as the most different ministers, co-chairing, chairing and I do not know what everything, and in this context, this item of the agenda, according to us, must have its place within today's session. Otherwise, we will come to a paradoxal blockade that the BiH Council of Ministers congratulates the report, otherwise, has not delivered all the time. On the basis of his unhappiness, he extends his mandate until I don't know how long.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2359	Thank you very much. I think we understand each other. So there was no problem. poslanik Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2360	I would like to ask my colleague, Tokić, to try to bring this proposal in line for which to vote. I hope we care about saying that the report is on the agenda. There's only a small difference between what I suggested and what he suggested. My suggestion is, once again, that it enters the agenda of today's session. But obviously we can't talk about it today. I do not wish without two co-chairs to discuss the subject because I consider them the most responsible, as the first people, the most responsible and responsible for the failure and the most responsible for the success they have achieved. For this reason, I would ask that, if we can, agree and invite you to vote for a proposal to get into the agenda and to discuss it further, what will the presidency inform us of until we give them a deadline, and then we will have the right and moral and each other to take our views, if they do not exist, towards them. I'd pray, if we want it to go away, I'm afraid we'll tear ourselves apart, so we won't achieve what we want, it seems the same. There's a sequence. Ambassador Divković. poslanik Tokić wanted to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2362	(speaking now) I was just talking about this session. 13
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2363	Of course, it's all clear. So, you two were actually thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2364	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind the chairman that his proposal to vote in particular, whether to include the proposal for a law on the holidays of Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on the Rules of Procedure, seems to me wrong, for the simple reason that we have a business provision that says that, when it comes to the laws, if within a month, the Council of Ministers of BiH does not give its position on the law, it is on the agenda. So, you should see, if that's for automation, then there's nothing to say. I think we should put it on the agenda. I also appreciate that this overall agenda, I accept what we have already voted on, is an integral part of today's agenda, but everything else here in the draft agenda should be part of the agenda of the 11th session of this House of Representatives, and this 11th session can be held in two parts, and in the first part we will go in this order as we adopt, and in the second part we will discuss these things that we would not be able to discuss today. And that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2365	Ambassador, it's okay. Let me tell you, just like that, we have seen these proposals as an integral part of the agenda. Whether it'll be over today or later, about it. As far as this attitude of yours is concerned, We must vote on every proposal in particular. [[STAMMERING]] Because there's a vote on the Kolegijum's proposal, in line. It's business. There is still a vote on each MP's proposal. So it'll be loud. Niko said it was off the agenda. It'll be voted, and as it goes on the agenda, we'll see. It is not disputed that it will be voted. Here you go, MP Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2366	I would just like to remind this distinguished home for one thing and I think it has a stenogram, that at the last session of Parliament, I have proposed such a matter to discuss the Council of Ministers of BiH, along with the constitutional basis and to keep it in the continuity of the sessions. So, now I just want to add, that we should set with this a date until the BiH Council of Ministers needs to answer us so we don't stay long again. My proposal is seven days, longest. So, let it be the longest seven days and let the Council of Ministers of BiH in those seven days – I did not have the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2367	We gave them seven days. Exactly as last time was suggested. Here, we have a representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, therefore, we agree with what you say. This is the last time you left just like you said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2368	Unfortunately, in a little ungrateful capacity, since both co-chairs are not here. I'd like, first of all, to give an explanation and an explanation. At last session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, this home, I did not attend because I was not invited at all. I checked, and the other ministers weren't invited. Only members of the BiH Council of Ministers were present at the same time as MPs. Secondly, regarding the report and the analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers – I would like to say one thing. No Niko from the BiH Council of Ministers is running away from the reports and with great satisfaction, at least I understand, as one big obligation for the BiH Council of Ministers to tell the BiH Parliamentary Assembly what it is doing, how it is doing and how long the problems it has in everyday work. For the first time today, I was familiar, that is, when I saw the agenda that this was required by the Council of Ministers, and then I tried to get information on which way and how it was requested. Mr. Chairman, you only sent two co-chairing letters to Mr. Silajdžić and Mr. Mihajlović and asked for a two-point statement. It is a matter of reports and analyses of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Another is that the Council of Ministers of BiH is manifested to amend and supplement the BiH Council of Ministers' law in a spirit with the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court. You've both asked for points to be answered within seven days. Meanwhile, when you sent, the BiH Council of Ministers did not hold any sessions. Therefore, I would ask, indeed, that whatever the situation is, I would ask at least the basic elements, come on, some sort of time tolerance to be respected here and try to find a solution so that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH gets a report from the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers to get time to do what you ask of us. I'd like so much alone. One more thing I'd like to add. The decision of the BiH Constitutional Court and you won only somewhere, I think, in the second half of September. We couldn't make any move because we didn't have a decision. It was news from the agency that a month before the decision, which was officially announced, was guessing in one way or another. I can immediately tell you that the Council of Ministers of BiH, in spirit with a recommendation, that is, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH has already made a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it is likely that the first or any of the first meetings of the Council of Ministers of BiH will be exclusively devoted to the issue. I would ask you, as MPs, and the House of Representatives to have in mind and to consider this as a narrower time that is not, unfortunately, our fault but because of the obligations that have arisen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2369	I have to answer to the Honorable Mr. Secretary. Here's the memo. Here's who took it, here's the date. The SDP Club initiative was sent to you on 22.9 and today it is 5.10. You are requested to submit the information by 1 October. Here it says. I don't know, gentlemen, I'm really surprised. We expected from here, if we send both the co-chairs – I did not in practice see that when you write to the House of Representatives, you write to the chairman, which is quite logical, and you do not write to all MPs. That's how we write to the co-chair, and we don't write to all the ministers. Or should I, I don't know, it's possible and that, I don't want to get into things like that. That's Mr. Tokić's opinion now. 17.9., so, before that, here's a memo where we asked for a statement of the BiH Council of Ministers, 17.9., a long time ago. Here, it's all here. Next, I have to, and now, in turn, on the 20th, on the same day, these two points you've read have been sent. Here, received the kabinet, here, see when he received, at 10 o'clock. We even have that. I ordered the sekretarijat to write time because I knew things like this would happen today. All the memos are here and with dates. Every memo had more than 14 days. Therefore, Your Honor, your remarks do not stand. But why there's something wrong, I don't know. I really can't talk about it. 15
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2370	Ladies and gentlemen, in order for this joy to be more complete, I suggest, this is a serious matter and I think it's unserious behavior, above all MPs. I propose that this parliament write one note to the BiH Council of Ministers, not to worry, because while this Parliament is, this council will be, and this work of Parliament. That people don't care. It is normal for the Council of Ministers of BiH to correspondence, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH or the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Only in exceptional cases can the BiH Parliamentary Assembly seek some clarifications in case of urgency. This is where we call, you know, whether we've spoken to them seven days sooner or later, whether there's time or no time. Since we do not want to work in the interests of the citizens who have chosen us, since we want to preserve the political color of BiH that is tragic for the people of BiH, I suggest we write to them not to worry and to work in the old and to move on to the rest of the agenda. Thank you very much. That's the conclusion, isn't it? And it's not. I thought that was the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2372	I would ask the chairman to put on a vote motion... a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and Analysis. [[speaks now, doesn't sound good]] If we're gonna do it today and when we do it, that's what we'll do when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2373	I'm thanking you. Just let me put that on. Here, I'm doing it right now. So I am putting into consideration the agenda point proposed by MEPs Tokić and Dokić: Report and Analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers with special reference to the BiH Constitutional Court Decision to bring this together because we have concluded so. Who's to put this point in the agenda? Who's in? 20. Who's against it? 3. I figure she's got most of this 20 vote point for, three votes against and eight abstentions. We're going to the second round. From the Federation of BiH, who's for this point? 12. He's got the right majority. From Republika Srpska? Seven. He's got the required majority. This point is included in the agenda as the 8th point. Please make sure the Secretariat is carefully managed because we must deliver the integral agenda to the MPs later because we will have to take a break to print out the agenda. Let's move on. Please make the Secretariat take care of the order. Tokić's second proposal was to include a report on the request of the SDP BiH MPs' Club for the issuance of passports to a Turkish citizen -- Bosnian -- this is excellent, with regard to the issue of passports to Mr Abduni. You have received information about this – excuse me, request of the Club of Representatives, so you have material. Who's to put this point in the agenda? 23. Against? Tell me against it. Eight abstentions. I figure this point got most of it in the first round. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 11. He's got the right majority. From Republika Srpska? 11. He's got the right majority. 16 So this point is included in the agenda under regular number nine Like point two. [[STAMMERS]] You'll get a clean agenda. SDP. The initiative is theirs and should not remain – I agree that there is no need to stand – whether the SDP Club agrees to delete this on the SDP proposal, because it has now become our common point. (Polemics) Okay. We don't want to get out of here. Let's move on. (Polemics) I have to tell you, we, like the Kolegijum, have said ours. But, you see, the MP has the right to propose a point and we have respected it. There was a vote on what we can do now. Let's move on. I put on the vote of the BiH Proposed Law on Holidays. I'm sorry, the draft's changed. A draft law on the holidays of BiH. Who's to put this point in the agenda? 13. She didn't get the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2374	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Obviously, here first, the Kolegijum does not carry out its basic obligation. I would remind you that according to the Interim Rules of Procedure, one of your obligations is to ensure that all parliamentary initiatives come to the agenda, and the Kolegijum is put here to prevent parliamentary initiatives from coming to the agenda. The second segment I would point out here is that obviously MPs, a series of MPs, begin with those who are restrained when it comes to tens of millions of marks, when it comes to terrorism, when it comes to national holidays, when it comes to the country's most important issues. It is obvious that MPs expect someone else to resolve these issues. In fact, if the BiH presidency says something, if Holbruk comes and says so, and he can't if a debate on the holiday law is being initiated within this House. I think and demand that the minutes enter that these constitutional rights are MPs and we do not accept this outcome of the vote and we will certainly use our rights to come back on the agenda in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure. The right of MPs cannot be challenged in this way as they are challenged here by neither the College nor this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2375	Please, I'm taking a 10-minute break and I'm asking the Secretariat to bring in the Interim Rules of Procedure and read the agenda provision. We'll stay in the O.R. Gentlemen of Parliament, since there are 30 MPs in the Chamber, we can continue our work. After the break, we didn't achieve consent. The Rules of Procedure provide for the adoption of the agenda at the beginning of the session. Given that the point got 13 votes, so she didn't get enough votes to get into the agenda. The point didn't go into the agenda. The Proposer has the right to appeal through the Constitutional Commission and the Authority. That's how it is for now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2376	Given the fact that the College is obliged to ensure that parliamentary initiatives without delay and legislative projects proposed by MPs and deputies come to the consideration of this high house, and since it is in the Official Messenger of BiH, No. 4., page 36 clearly defined that after the Constitutional Commission has recommended that, without delay, the debate on the legislative project goes to the House of Representatives – I have this conclusion – and since this leads to de facto the farce of MPs/legislators' positions, before we continue our procedure, I would ask that each individual statement be made. Since this is a drastic example that the law has been in the process for more than 17 months, given that all the public writes about it, and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the BiH Council of Ministers discusses this, the BiH presidency is discussing this, Holbruk is discussing it, Klinton sends congratulations, and the House of Representatives is blocking this initiative. I would ask for an individual vote on this proposal to be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2377	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2378	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Chairman, since you gave me your word, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are for the reasons of these -- the impossible situations that we are in relation to the laws and the role of this house, and yet that is the legislative role, are not any other role but the legislative primary, as it says in the Constitution, we have reached this conclusion. I have tried to draw attention in the pauses that we have held a debate in order to prevent, to devalue the position of MPs who have the right, the possibility and the obligation and it is his main duty to propose laws and to give initiatives, etc. If our conclusion is suspended in this way to plead on the agenda, about a point that is by nature of things automatically on the agenda, then you, and as a College, will be able every time everything that we have agreed simply to pass on to the indefinite. There is no reason to complain to the Constitutional Commission and to seek correction of the procedure because it was agreed in the procedure itself, and it was full consent, it doesn't matter who suggested it anymore, did Mr. Rakić, is it Mr. Lagumdžija or some third, Bogićević, suggested either one of these people on the right or left or You personally, but we agreed to ensure with this conclusion the integrity of this Parliament's legislative work. I suggest that if we can't talk clearly and if we're going to outsmart to read, we're going to share that conclusion again because it's a clean thing like a tear. This law, like any other initiative by the MPs, is on the agenda when a certain time passes. This cannot be re-produced. The other thing is when it comes to the agenda how who's gonna take a stand. Will he suggest, as Mr Špirić, that we go to the proposal that it is the 21st, he will propose 6, 25th and so on. or any other date in November or May. Here's the problem, simply, that you can't discuss the thing we said in the procedure. That is why we asked for this conclusion to be published in the Official List as a document that replaces the relationship of the BiH Council of Ministers, you remember well what was then, and Parliament itself. I ask that, by respecting our own decisions, we act accordingly. I do not think that a statement is needed, as Mr Tokić suggests, each MP individually. I think we need to respect the conclusion we've made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2379	You think the point can get on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2380	I believe that the point has entered and that it cannot – without a vote – because that is how it stands in the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2381	I'll Stavić that proposal to the vote. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2382	It's not a suggestion. I suggest you don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2383	It can't, sir, that's it. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2384	No, no, that doesn't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2385	That's different. Please, just before that – You can, Mr. MP, put on the agenda that you believe that this item without voting can enter the agenda. You can put that on. But in the Rules of Procedure, which is older than the conclusion, dear sir, it is said that the agenda is adopted at the beginning of the session and that during the session, I quote: any MP may propose amendments and additions to the agenda, pardon, supplement the agenda, not change. Deputy Chairman Genjac, then Mišo Deretić, then Vito Rakić. A member of the Secretariat cannot discuss this at Parliament. He can't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2386	Dear colleagues, I would remind you we are the Conclusion on MPs' initiatives with regard to the adoption of laws, proposals and drafts, too much with the intention to protect the elevation of MPs and to facilitate the passing of Parliament's procedures and initiatives and to allow any obstacles to be removed to all MPs' initiatives on the agenda. That was indeed our intention. However, it does stand in the Rules of Procedure, and that also preserves the dignity of the MPs to declare on the agenda, eventually, MPs. I think we must maintain the integrity of our MPs in one respect and another. I think it's a good approach to plead individually on this proposal, on this item of the agenda, but I would invite all MPs to bear in mind both of these facts that we have voted alone and to remain consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2387	poslanik Deretić, then Ambassador Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2388	Dear fellow Members, distinguished guests, Mr. President, I will indeed be a happy man if, during today's day, by the end of working time, which is usually for us somewhere, the practice is at least until 19 hours we have completed these sessions, if, indeed, we adopt today's agenda. I had no intention at all of this point to report today. However, even some proposals are extremely inconclusive, bringing MPs into doubt, etc. I'm just asking distinguished colleagues to read the Interim Rules of Procedure. We voted on a draft law on the holidays of BiH. The vote, Mr. Chairman, has been made. We can't go back now. Respecting everything that counterpart Tokić said, however, he should have suggested before the vote to hold the vote by name. Since he didn't suggest it, the vote was done by raising hands. The vote has been held and I really ask that we do not go back to the things that we have spoken of as MPs. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2389	Vito's giving up. I beg Mrs. Havel, but she left the gym. I ask the sekretarijat for this re-election to take a position and to appoint a rapporteur on the subject of Mr Tokić's proposal. It means meeting the sekretarijat and taking a stand on Mr. Tokić's proposal. Is there any possibility that voting can be repeated individually if a vote has already been made? I'm asking the sekretarijat to plead. Make a statement and give me your rapporteur who will give you your position. Here, we have Mr. Tokić, then Špirić. The sekretarijat has to plead, so you're a collective body and say so. Only in the name of the Secretariat will I accept. It's clear to me, but I will.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2390	Chairman, just to help you in your life not to fall into contradiction.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2391	I won't fall, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2392	It's about contradiction, the next thing you know, I wasn't talking to the sekretarijat the first time or the second time. For the first time, the sekretarijat has taken a very clear position when it comes to this view about entering the agenda – you did not accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2393	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2394	I, please, have legitimately expressed this example as a drastic example of a turning point in this House's work. After this, if such a practice is established, you are free to cross in the Constitution the right of the Members to pass the law. That right is limited by will, or you three, or now you two, or I don't know who. In this context, I would like that, and by expressing doubts about the vote, I propose that the House of Representatives be held individually again. It's a legitimate proposal. If we're going to go to such a kind of outwitting, blockage, where there is no possibility of this proposal, then indeed, Mr. Chairman, I don't think you're doing the basic function, which is to allow every initiative of every MP to be treated evenly here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2395	Mr. Ambassador, I'm asking you to stay here. You'll get a chance, here, right now. They have two replicas. Has the bill been voted upon by you? Is the draft voted on, by you?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2396	I said I asked that the vote be held individually.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2397	Whether or not it was requested before the vote began. 20
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2398	Well, look, I can't – listen, I can't voice doubt about voting before the vote. I couldn't have guessed it would count that way. I'm making two arguments. One question is the vote. Secondly, the need for each MP to declare himself on such an essential issue of the status of MPs. And given the fact...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2399	Do you argue that voting is irregular?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2400	I doubt the regularity of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2401	Please state the fact. (Polemics) Well, how can I say, if it's irregular, I'm willing to repeat it. I want to see where the irregularity is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2402	I'm asking you to repeat the vote and then...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2403	And what are the reasons for the repetition?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2404	Because I doubt the regularity of the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2405	What are the arguments, I'm sorry, please tell me, I'll just do it. Just give me the arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2406	It's not a good count. I can't believe that only 12 MPs or 13...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2407	We have two replicas. Okay, thank you very much, here's a suggestion from Genjac you received and no problem, let's move on. (Polemics) He helped the Genjac and that's co-operation one, we'll see. Come on, come on in. (Polemics) Nothing, we'll count again, what's the matter.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2408	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this kind of debate really makes any sense, or we want nothing to do with this kind of discussion, to discuss the agenda or some peripheral stuff. Why do I say that? I won't say that the BiH holiday law doesn't matter. It is important and is also proposed in that plan of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the end of the year. But please, to do our job today why we came here, to finish at least something, to respect some kind of procedure and to move on to the agenda. This proposal was voted on and the vote was held as 21 has been carried out. And that's what today, in my opinion, can't be voted on anymore. Those who are not satisfied, if the rights are denied, then the College, the Secretariat, must submit appropriate conconsequences and give an answer to that question at the next session. Let us finish setting up the agenda as we begin. At this point, in my opinion, you can't discuss it anymore. It's over and we're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2409	Thank you very much. Another replica. Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2410	Mr. Chairman, since I really have no other means of expressing my dissatisfaction with the way, not only to lead this home, but also to make a final decision when it comes to this item of the agenda, which, for me, has been completed and voted in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure. I am making it clear to you right now that I am leaving the session until the discussion is completed and possibly an illegal re-election on this agenda point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2411	There's no discussion, Mr. MP, on this agenda point. The vote is over for me and we're moving on. We've got nothing. At this point, I've concluded the discussion. Mr. Ambassador, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2412	You are not above the Rules of Procedure, you are not above the Law and you are not above the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2413	I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2414	I, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, am asking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2415	You got it. Break 10 minutes. We're going back to work. [[PAUZA]] [[/After a break.]] We have a quorum. poslanik Tokić answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2416	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, respecting the overall work of today's House of Representatives, in which no elemental assumptions are allowed for this House to perform its function and in which it is in the most drastic way regarding the agenda, and even when sending the agenda, past the Rules of Procedure, past the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the College has taken for itself to propose the agenda separately, which we have warned and voted against. Given the fact that with the overall event when the Social Democratic Party's proposals for the debate on issues of work and analysis of the Council of Ministers of BiH, reports on the issue of passports to foreign citizens and the fact that this last 22 vote has brought down the basic function of MPs, the will of the College and parliamentary majority, representatives of the Social Democratic Party in this high house, as the only parliamentary party that has members of all three nations in its ranks, during today's day, without the previous opinions of the Constitutional Commission, OHR, if necessary and the Constitutional Court of BiH, from the aspect of the constitutional position of MPs, is not ready to participate in this work. We think that with our position we best express what the mood of citizens, our voters, and the people and the citizens of BiH is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2417	Thank you very much. What is it, the replica Mišo, then Spahić? Is it a replica, Mišo? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2418	Mr. Chairman, I will just point out that, however, some MPs are using, indeed, this pay phone for political propaganda. Because I can't here without referring to the fact that Mr. Tokić already has several times been able to repeat, which is that members of his party are, therefore, members of all three peoples. Even in the party where I am is the same situation, and it is certain that there are many parties here that are represented by MPs and in which all three peoples are MPs. On the other hand, I do not think it is correct for Parliament to leave this way for the simple reason that we are on the point, if I am not mistaken, please, that the chairman of the corrections, the 9th, adopt the Report on the request of the SDP Assembly Club. So, we put it in, and, Mr. Tokić, we will certainly, be sure, participate and very gallantly. Therefore, I cannot agree with your argument that, among other things, you want to leave this session, and that a good violation of the Rules of Procedure is, indeed, temporary, which is what it is and which we must all really adhere to. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2419	Thank you very much. Is it a replica? Replica. I don't know who's replicating who now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2420	Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, the right of every parliamentary party to make any decision they want, as is good for BiH's fate that MPs and parties in this parliament fight for their positions. I know a party, unfortunately, whose member I was, which had both Srbin and Hrvat and musliman in 1992, who, unfortunately, divided the administration of Srbin, musliman and Hrvat, took arms and destroyed each other, unfortunately, until the signing of the Dayton Agreement. I would not like such fate to be re-attached by those parties who speak out loud about this multiethnicity. I'm used to civil style being nursed in each and every one of us. That there is little in each of us, and not to say that there is a Srbin, musliman and Hrvat sitting next to me in the same party, so when, unfortunately, to what BiH has been exposed over the last hundred years five times, we again make sure that such a concept, unfortunately, does not live in this country. But what will be the parties and what will be Bosnia and Herzegovina, the voters will determine in the upcoming elections. I hope we won't be waiting long for local elections in April and parliamentary elections in September next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2421	Thank you very much. poslanik Spahić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2422	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask, as an MP, to read the conclusion of this House on proposals and draft laws and I have the right to do so. I ask to be read as you asked for a break, Mr. Banjac, to be read to the people who sit here, to the guests and others. It's possible, as you've carefully investigated in the course of two breaks of 10 minutes, and I don't know how much time the Rules of Procedure has. I don't dispute the Rules of Procedure. On the contrary, on the basis of him, I asked that some initiatives be made such as European integration, such as economic policy, but I must, as an MP, say that this is the moment when we should be defended from ourselves. I'm asking to read the conclusion. The conclusion can be obtained from the Secretariat and I pray that on behalf of someone, you will read it, if any of the MPs will, please, the Secretariat of the Official List deliver the conclusion. If no one's ready, I want to read it, if no one else will. (Polemics) Then you, Mr. Banjac, read the conclusion because by the definition of the Rules of Procedure, you are our speaker. So he who, in the name of us, and not in his own name, determines the fate of our sessions and their course. Please behave according to the role of speaker.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2423	Listen, I didn't know, so, in the future, it's written by the chairperson speaker. (Polemics) I beg you, sir, don't talk to me like that while I'm chairman. I won't tell you for sure. Here's the conclusion, and I respect Mr. MP's proposal. On the basis of Article 1, here, I have received a version of the Croatian language and I will read it as it says, so Vuk Karadžić taught me. On the basis of Article 1(3) of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the House of Representatives draws conclusions at a session held on 10 February 1999. This conclusion concerns the proposed laws, i.e. initiatives for the adoption or amendment of laws or other acts submitted to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, MPs' clubs, working committees and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose proposal is not the Council of Ministers and BiH Presidency, in the following text: draft laws. 2. The chairman of the House of Representatives will regularly refer to the Council of Ministers of BiH and other competent institutions of BiH all proposed laws and ask for their opinion to be delivered to the House of Representatives within 30 days, and especially if, according to the assessment of the College of the House of Representatives, it is more complex and extensive laws, within 60 days of their delivery to these institutions. After the deadline, the proposals and initiatives submitted will go into the regular procedure set out in the Interim Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. This will open without delay the process of reviewing the proposed laws at the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission and other competent working committees of the House of Representatives to make recommendations on them, followed by a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 3. MPs, MPs' clubs and the House of Representatives' working committee may, in cases where prices are justified, refer the proposed laws to an urgent discussion at the House of Representatives in the procedure laid down by the Interim Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House. 24 4. This conclusion takes effect on the day of adoption at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 5. This conclusion is published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger. I'm sorry, Mr. MP, I'm asking you nicely to allow us to work. On this occasion, we must also read a member of the Rules of Procedure relating to the agenda. Because it points to this conclusion, it was very good. And that conclusion is, I know it by heart, so I'll read it to you. Replica, coma, me. [[whispers]] I didn't realize, who said, I'm sorry, I really didn't realize, I'm sorry, who mentioned your name? Okay, wrong allegations, I respect that. I respect that. Let's get this over with, and we'll be right there. Please, allow me to read at the request of the MPs. Therefore, the member of the Interim Rules of Procedure states that the agenda is adopted at the beginning of the session. And, gentlemen, it is said that during the session, any MP may request the addition of the agenda to new proposals. Find it, and here it is pointed out because it says, in accordance with the procedure set out in the Rules of Procedure, Here, let's see, we'll be right back to make the MP clear. [[STAMMERS]] After this deadline, the proposals submitted, the initiatives will go into the regular procedure set out in the Interim Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. This is a whole sentence. It is proposed and is to be adopted on the agenda, because it must be adopted. It went into adoption and you see what happened. Well, here, I read it once before, I was alive. [[Intruders: read Conclusion]] Well, I read it. [[Intruders – there it says the laws go to the Constitutional Commission's working bodies]] Shall we do it one more time? [[Intruder: This law has passed that procedure, therefore goes...]] But people get angry, they say it's hard. You understand. I read it, you asked me to do it, and I did it. Mr. Ambassador Tokić - replica. I ask Mr. MP to be worthy to allow the MP to speak. Please don't do this. It doesn't lead to anything.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2424	I have said a fact behind this pay phone, ladies and gentlemen, MPs/legislators. The Social Democratic Party is the only parliamentary party that is part of its parliamentary club – present here – has representatives of all three Bosnian-Herzegovina constituent nations. I don't argue that Špirić sees tragedy in it. I don't argue with anyone seeing, I don't know, good at it. I just pointed it out as a relevant fact for what Bosnia and Herzegovina will be and what it is today. Not in the heads of the people present here, but in the heads of people living all over BiH. I do not dispute, I have noticed, and we have noticed that high readiness has been expressed by representatives such as Deretić to strongly discuss the crime and corruption present in the Federation of BiH and vice versa. The high readiness of the representatives of the ruling parties from the Federation of BiH to discuss crime and corruption in Republika Srpska or not returning refugees and exiled to a sufficient extent to one and another territory. So it's quite visible. However, allow us, our initiatives launched in this house, including those passports, passports, travel documents, including crime and corruption on the Central Bank, including the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, means what I said at the beginning that we do not have any more bile when we discuss crime in Banja Luka than in Sarajevo. Crime has no national basis for us. And not wanting to continue to participate in the reading of the conclusion that is very clear and not wanting to continue to participate in this work, until conditions are created in line with what I said to the Constitutional Commission that the validity of this proposal, I really must note that we, indeed, must, in accordance with the obligations we have towards the voters, according to this function, according to this high house, stop today participating in this farce that continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2425	It's mentioned that, that's it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2426	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not running away from any of the words I say about this pay phone unless I'm respected for what I'm not saying. I didn't say it was tragic because there are multiethnic parties and because the Social Democrats party is like that. But I said I knew a party in which before the war we were both me and Tokić and were its representatives in the Sarajevo City Assembly, which was the most multiethnic party in Europe and in the world, which, unfortunately, when the conflict occurred in BiH, had just been divided by these stitches and had come to what had occurred. You know, while someone has a need to point us out – says, I'm an independent journalist – to give myself some prefix, etc. raises unnecessary doubt. That's why I said I didn't want to, really, because I appreciate people from the Social Democrats' party that this accident... Because I'd like someone to give me a guarantee. Is it the only guarantee that in BiH it is impossible to repeat the evils that have been repeated five times in the past hundred years if someone has a multiethnic party? But I said that each of us BiH MPs, first of all, regardless of which party, must cultivate a civil approach, that they live in it a little bit, if BiH wants to move forward. It's not enough. I have in my party, as in all these parties, Srbin, musliman and Hrvat. We sit next to each other and here in this House no matter what party we are from. But that, you see, didn't lead to prosperity. And that's why I'm asking you not to put what I didn't say. I don't think it's tragic that there are multiethnic parties. I think that's good. But it is not the only thing BiH will lead to a world of prosperous future. I know it's better rented at this point to talk about it than to work for the good of the people. It is much more political rent in BiH today to talk about multiethnicity than even work to create better conditions for all three constituent nations and both entities in BiH. And when these renters who pay these politicians withdraw financial resources, you'll see them very quickly in various parties that have prefixes this one or that one, and at least multiethnically. In that sense, I would pray that what I did or did not say is not respected. That's why I explained it a little longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2427	Thank you very much for the explanation. poslanik Dokić, then Ambassador Čaršimamović, and this replica And I didn't know what that meant, and now I know. [[Deretić's intrusion: double]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2428	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the previous MP, I don't know, I didn't remember his name, I apologize, to stick to the terms of the Dayton Agreement. On page 130, the Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin live in BiH and do not use religious expression for the Bosniak people. 26
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2429	Are you asking me if it can be replicated? (Laughter) Come and ask me something, gentlemen. I'll break these replicas. This doesn't lead to anything. Shorten your time, MP. I apologize if I used a term that really irritates anyone. But I ask the previous speaker to read the list of MPs who passed the election. It says the name and name of MP Nikola Špirić. Don't let it bother you, because BiH, among other things, is, unfortunately, being punished, unfortunately, by its citizens. It's no problem for you to read it, at all, like I don't mind reading the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement. But it looks like everyone here is reading what's right for him. And that's the problem with Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2431	(Speaks now) Just to answer. This was just an irony to the gentleman's several times mentioning my name that he always says wrong. I wanted her to see what it was like. Apparently, he didn't read the Dayton Agreement when he spoke to Musliman all the time...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2432	Okay. Thank you very much. Ambassador Špirić, I ask you to use your expression. The application is in place and I ask that it be used as it is written. Please in the future. Now the replica, Mišo, double. (Polemics) Ambassador, please ask for a word, don't put me in a position to warn you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2433	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I am sorry that Mr. Tokić and members of his club went out and left this session. Namely, this duplicate of mine is referring to him right now. I wouldn't have answered that at all. But here, however, I wanted only an example to point out, indeed, the great abuses suffered by this microphone in front of us. Namely, Mr. Tokić said when he mentioned that in his party, therefore, he mentioned that all three people were in his party. And after he asks for a replica, then he's rectified, I speak for the representatives of all three peoples in my club. So that's very incorrect. And if he had mentioned a club that was made up of representatives from three nations, I wouldn't have reacted. That's why I'm saying, and that, first of all, is the chairman, criticizing to you again who must, indeed, respond to such petty provocations.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2434	It means telling him it's not his club, it's his party.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2435	Yes, it is. No, he was looking for a replica, but not the way he was supposed to look. And yet, as far as this name is concerned, I also feel the need to replicate the MP, Mrs. Mediha, I think I said well – I am really not in the dilemma here. I read the Dayton Agreement well, and when I mention the people I grew up with, I always mention musliman, as a people by the 1991 census. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2436	I hope you speak from 1991, but, please, to be used in the future – this is after the Dayton Agreement and it is known that I am asking MPs not to argue about these things in this way. poslanik Dokić, then you. It was all a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2437	There are many, many vices in the world. Drinks are one of the vices. And according to popular belief, it is best to drink when you swallow an evil word. It would be good if many words were spoken today. Fellow MPs, almost four hours later, we haven't adopted the agenda. Why don't we just ask ourselves that a little bit? What are we gonna do today? Are we even going to adopt the agenda? I think we should all have responsibilities, first of all, towards ourselves and see how we get out of this stalemate position. We didn't first come to the situation that we couldn't agree on some things, but it seems to me that for the first time we keep wanting to get rid of ourselves by persuading you that I'm right, and you're trying to convince me that I'm right. I don't think that leads to anything. First of all, we should appreciate every moment of our time that is most precious in everything we have, remember. That's why I would suggest that this debate, indeed, we stop by not getting into who's less right who's more right. The fact is that we voted on one bill and that the result of the vote is what it is. The vote was regular. No one could argue with that. These conclusions can be interpreted one way or another. I don't want to interpret them. Because I didn't say I was against the law. Come on, the next session will be relatively fast and maybe very fast. We'll put it back on the agenda, hear the arguments, and we've already heard a lot of them that we didn't even have in mind when we voted. And those who are now against this imposition of a revote have previously declared themselves to be in favour of the law. Some even voted for him. So obviously someone cares about making a mistake. I've also read the law, in the meantime, as suggested and I'm convinced there won't be much dispute over it when it comes to the agenda. But if we haven't had it for three and a half years how long this Parliament has been working – three years and a little more – come on, let's be patient for twenty days. So my proposal is to chair this point, to move on to the initiative on the agenda because this is voted on, please. Don't bring in some MPs now who voted the way they voted, five minutes later to vote differently. Don't put us in this situation. We'll put this on the next session on the agenda and I'm convinced that this law will be passed relatively quickly. Perhaps among the fastest procedures that follow us. Once again, I suggest the chairman puts the agenda on the table. There are no more replicas and we're going to the next initiatives and we're going on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2438	I must give the MP one more word and ask the other MPs to make Mr. čaršimamoviti the last speaker. Let's work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2439	Mr. Chairman, I reported this as a discussion. Actually, it would be more of an intervention. But if I didn't go out and intervene all the time, I want to do this through the discussion. By reading the conclusion that you read and the Interim Rules of Procedure as you read it, I think that this point should have been in the proposal and that, at the beginning of the 28th, we plead. I don't think you've got it right at the beginning of the agenda. Why do I say that? I say first of all because the law passed the procedure it was meant to pass. He was on the Constitutional Commission and the Constitutional Commission gave its opinion on him. So he was supposed to be included. In addition, you put it on the agenda in the invitation you sent on 23.9. I read it below. [[Stammers: read what's down there]] So we had two basiss to put it in the package because you read that the agenda could be added cannot be changed. As far as I'm concerned. Now, let's just say I didn't get it right, I don't really see any real reason for us to discuss this point for four hours. It was much simpler to accept the vote again, the individual vote. I'm not convinced anyone would change their mind. So the results of the vote would be the same, they would be numerically the same. No Niko would change anything but we would end this point. I suggest that we, however, have the dignity of this home, to continue to work, to carry out an individual vote. I'll vote the way I voted. I don't see why anyone should be afraid of that. But the reason I'm saying this is because I think that you should have given us this whole agenda to vote on, to discuss it, especially when we have taken into account point 9 and your opinion and conclusion because the Constitutional Commission has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2440	Thank you very much. Mr. MP, I beg you, voting before the beginning means – I ask you to understand that, no individual statement is required. When the matter is over, half an hour of discussion after that, then remember Mr. MP and say, "I would individually." I ask you a question, if we let him do it, do I have to let someone who says, "Let's go now and vote in writing, secretly, in writing." So there's no end to that story. Since the procedure has passed, I'm asking you not to go back to it. I respect you and believe that there are a lot of people here to pass the law, but please let us understand that the agenda is being adopted at the voting session. And here he wants to go without a vote, Mr. MP, to be placed on the agenda. No, not without a vote, I'm not up for it and I think it should go to the vote every time. But I think it's time for the MP to have the right to propose the law. That this law is being voted upon and I don't see why this assembly needs so much to discuss it. I would like to remind you that several times, while respecting you as chairman, you reiterated the vote because you were not satisfied. If you've given yourself that right as ours, I won't say as a speaker, as our chairman, I think he has such a right to take it. But I'd like this assembly to not be broken on such a banal problem. Look, I can't remember exactly now the MP from the RS who said he would leave the Assembly if this continues. Such a one proposal was probably answered by the SDP, who said if it continues – so on the banal issue, we split up on repeating the vote. Besides, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't repeat the vote if it's in the interest of having something done. Thank you. 29
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2442	(speaks now) Since Mr. Kadić, you have announced that he will be late, I suggest he does not go out for a pay phone, that the Constitutional Commission meet at the break, since we have a conflict Rules of Procedure, to help you, like the College, and to help us come out with the position of the Constitutional Commission. [[whispers]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2443	It's not a dispute. We're going to go further since this is, but I agree with your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2444	Mr. Kadić is here, let him plead...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2445	Let's work. Let's move on. (Polemics) I didn't say that the Constitutional Commission would withdraw, but at break one... Mr. Dokić's proposal was to take the work programme, gentlemen, I have to notice, I want to discuss this moment as an MP. Dear gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I am very sorry to say that I have the feeling that the work of this House of Representatives has been deliberately obstructed by individuals and that I will use the right to speak publicly in front of the media. I don't know why. On many occasions I wanted, truly, to come to a solution, to go to work, and then someone used a literal pay phone for personal promotions, for which any politics that had nothing to do with the fate of this people. This people need bread and work. We need to work and make laws, and we make things right here and we honor them. There's no quorum in the O.R. right now. Please, why isn't the Secretariat informing me if there's no Who? [[STAMMERS]] 27 present. So what is it, my people, the quorum? Please, it's something else, sir, in the first round – it's not true that... [[Intruder: no from the Federation of BiH quorum]] Once again, gentlemen, the Secretariat is making political pranks. Write this down that I said pranks. It says in the Rules of Procedure that the quorum is 22. It is not said to be so much from the RS or so from the Federation of BiH. It's so clear to you. I'm warning a member of the Secretariat who said this. This is a second warning. (Polemics) I don't know what this is all about. [[Mr. Genjaca's intruder, there's a quorum. A third of the Federation of BiH is present. And for the second round of voting there is a quorum)]] It's clear there is. I'm sorry, this is where I get disabled from all sides. They have some things that don't make sense to me. Gentlemen, please let us go to work. Parliamentarian Dokić's proposal was to include the Work Programme in the agenda by the end of 1999 as a part of the agenda. So, a proposal for a work programme – Branko, a proposal or a draft. This is where the sekretarijat delivered it to me, so I'm reading how it was delivered. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2446	One of the first conditions that the Council of Europe requires of us, from this home, in order to even come to the agenda for the entry into the Council of Europe, is that we have a work programme by the end of the year. So, those who advocate, the words all advocate, but those who sincerely want to come to the agenda, let us satisfy that condition. We can please him very easily. My proposal is to put this on the agenda, noting that this tailored proposal that we can agree on, which will satisfy that form, is being prepared for the continuation of this session. So, I'm sure today's session won't be, it won't end all the points of the agenda. So, to come in and discuss the follow-up together with a report and an analysis on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2447	Thank you very much. You heard Mr. Dokić's suggestion not to repeat it. How many people are in the O.R.? 26. He's got a quorum. The voting quorum is 26. Who is it for Mr Dokić's proposal to get this point into the agenda, the proposal for a work programme? 22. Against? 4. Restraint. We vote on entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Ten. Enough. From Republika Srpska? Enough. Thank you. 11. Excuse me. This point becomes an integral part of the agenda under regular number 10 Okay, that'll be the sekretarijat. [[STAMMERS]] Not now, she's mostly in, so we're gonna have to take a break to set up the agenda. Mr. Dokić's second proposal has already come in, accepted, and I don't think there's any need to... Now, Mr. Nikola Špirić's proposals. Gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Parliament, upstairs, is there anything controversial? There isn't. Mr Špirić proposes to launch an initiative to replace the BiH Council of Ministers. The quorum. Did anyone get out? It's not. So 26 is present. Who's up for Mr. Špirić's suggestion? Seven. There's no need to move on. No point accepted. Mr Špirić's second proposal was the Stability Pact Summit Report for Southeast Europe – a financial part. 26 is a quorum. Who's in? 20. Who's against it? There isn't. Abstained? Six. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Ten. Enough. Republika Srpska for? 11. Enough. Please, Mr Špirić's third proposal is to conclude that the date of signing the Dayton Peace Agreement is declared a holiday for BiH until the holiday law is passed. Did I say that right? 26 present. Who's up for the proposal? To go to the agenda, yes. 13. He didn't get most of it. He got half right. One missing. He didn't win and he can't go and there's no need to move on. This information about Amduni came in, Širić, it's in the agenda. The next proposal is Mr Špirić's Report of BiH Parliamentary Delegations in European bodies and European and other international bodies. So the reports. 31 Who is it to get this point into the agenda? 26 is present. 24. By entities. From the Federation of BiH for? 11. Enough. From Republika Srpska for? 11. Accepted this point. There was no more, Mr. Špirić, of your proposals. Mr. Spahić. He's here, Mr. Spahić, I'm asking you to help. Here is the first – this is a question – for when will the Council of Ministers of BiH... I don't know how you'd put it on the agenda. He says, when will the Council of Ministers be able to deliver a report and an analysis of the work? That's what we've already put on. So that's what we're erasing. You're okay with that? To include in the agenda the Report of the Organizational Committee on the Final Paper of the Stability Pact – this is what we have included. Come on, formulate the point You, please. This is what it says here. I can't – you have to help.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2448	In accordance with the conclusions of the Resolution, implementation So, agenda point: Realising decisions from the Resolution or conclusions of the resolution on European integration, the Southeast Stability Pact. [[intrusion: define point]] That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2449	Don't explain. Let's just define the point. Realisation of the conclusions of the Resolution on European Integrations and the Stability Pact.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2450	It's our obligation to sign. Branka, did you write it down? Please, it means Realising the conclusions of the Resolution on European Integrations and the Stability Pact. Who's in favour of Mr Spahić's proposal? 20. By entities. From the Federation of BiH? Nine. There's no need for a majority. 9, what can I do? There's nothing I can do about it. (Polemics) Please raise your hand once more, who's in favor? Ten. All right, there's an intervention. So we have 10. There's a need for most of them. From Republika Srpska, please? 12. There's a need for most of them. Let's go to Mr Spahić's next proposal. This is kind of awkwardly formulated. He says that Mr. Bičakčić, as head of the delegation, submits a report – that is what has already been adopted. It's good when you get along. That's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2453	We can. Okay. 32 About the work programme we have already adopted. Thank you very much. No, no, no, the point has entered the agenda. Mr. Špirić, I don't really know, you're a happy man, but give me a minute. (Thuds) I know you're tired, but how much am I? I have to follow who says, and now, I'm sorry. I suggest we make it now – Secretariat, how long should these dots and write, type and divide the integral text? Please, there's one suggestion. Since we really lost a lot of time and that's a shame. Let us begin in order, so let them do this part of the work, the sekretarijat, and that we do, if you agree. You don't agree. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2454	Ladies and gentlemen, shame on shame and love for love. I think there is a limit to Parliament's endurance for a quality debate, too. I'm not in the mood for getting rid of work and for the dots to line up and get over them like kids over the snow. I am so that, as a break can be made, against which I have nothing, for a religious ceremony, it would be good to take care of our health to take a break for lunch and to do seriously in this House if we plead to make serious laws and conclusions. So deprive each other of the need to be ugly that we are too late. We did not waste time, and when we discussed – I will warn you, yesterday I had information in Sarajevo that the Social Democrats would create a spectacle and leave the Assembly. That's what they did. So, lunch break, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2455	Let's make a deal like this. Since Špirić is right to eat something. I'm not up for it to stop working. We didn't do anything. I suggest you do it like this. It's four o'clock. Let's give it an hour's break. (Polemics) Let's go half an hour and get people to eat something. Half an hour's break and we're here at half past five. [[/After a break.]] I have the honour to welcome, on behalf of and on behalf of you, the Senator and Deputy Minister of Defence of Italy and the Ambassador of the Republic of Italy to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you so much for joining us in our work. It's an honor and a pleasure to us. I hope it will be an experience for you to see how the House of Representatives of our Parliament works. I apologize, if you don't know gentlemen, Mr. Senator and Deputy Secretary of Defense, Masimo Bruti and Ambassador Enriko Pjetro Marki. The lady or the missus is an interpreter. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, you've been given the adoption of the agenda. [[Applause]] It's been a long time, but in the end, we made a big agenda. I hope we can work successfully now. 33 Ad.1.The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Representatives I shall put both minutes under discussion. Any objections to the records? You've got the records. I once again stress that you have received the records. Is anyone checking in? There isn't. Who's to get the notes in the proposed form into the package, who's in favour? 23 for, but it's 24. Who's against it? Abstained? 1. So I'm saying it's a 23rd, kind one against no one. By entities, there's no need. I think this includes both the parliamentary majority. I find that the minutes of the 9th and 10th sessions have been adopted. This concludes the 1st point of the agenda and we move on to: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina Please the President of the Constitutional Commission to submit a report to the Commission. No need? Is it divided? Is there a need to comment on the president? There isn't. I'm opening a debate on this second agenda. Who's applying for a hearing? Here you go. She's a colleague of Milenka Bošnjak. You have received a table of remarks on the Revision Bill submitted by Mrs. Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2456	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I would like to comment on the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina: 1. In Article 2, the word "minister" should be deleted, meaning the finance minister, because the finance ministry does not exist at the level of BiH institutions. 2. In Article 6, paragraph 3, it should be said that the general auditor is appointed for three years, each time being appointed from another nation. 3. In Article 9, in order to delete point (a), because it enters into the jurisdiction of the entity and is not understood at least. 4. Article 11 should be deleted because it may lead to abuse of function. 5. In Article 13, paragraph 5, in the second and third lines, the words “Minister in charge of finance affairs” should be deleted, because there is no such thing. In point 6, instead of number 2005, the number 2002 should stand. Six. In Article 16, in point 3, the words “in the name of the Government” should be replaced by “The Council of Ministers”. It's the same thing to do in all the other members. Seven. Article 40 should be deleted because the Agency mentioned is not constitutional. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2457	Ambassador, Mrs. Rađević. 34
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2458	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. At the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I also submit the following amendments, and you have received them, but I will read them anyway. 1.The title of the law should be amended by saying: "The Financial Audit Act for the work of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina". 2. Article 3(1) should read as follows: "A financial audit institution for the work of the BiH Joint Institutions is established" which is referred to as "the Financial Audit Office for the Work of Joint Institutions of BiH" (hereinafter referred to as the Office for Audit). 3. Article 7 of point 3 should state that the deputy general auditor's term of office is also three years. 4. In Article 10, point 3 should be added, which would read: “The auditor-general will not take any activities related to the jurisdiction of the entity”. 5. In Article 13, in the second verse, the word “all” should be added, and the words “Constitutional Court, Council of Ministers” should be written in the third verse instead of “judgments and bodies of government and public funds”. Six. In Article 14, the words “Ministership responsible for financial affairs” should be deleted. The same should be done in other members where it is called. Seven. In Article 29, paragraph 2, point (c) should be deleted as it enters into the jurisdiction of the entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2459	Who's still reporting for a discussion on this agenda point? Mr. Representative Bećirbašić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2460	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, Mr. President, I want you to comply with Article 8. I submit the next amendment to the proposal for a law on the revision of BiH institutions. Amendment 1. A new Article 4 is added behind Article 3, which reads: “The BiH institutions' audit office has legal personality status. The headquarters of the Office is in Sarajevo". So much and thank you. Thank you very much. I ask all MPs to make it so neatly, as so far these three MPs have delivered in writing their amendments and thus facilitate our work and we will work faster. Who's next to the word? Dear Members of the Parliament, Honorable Member of Parliament Suada Muminagić had a proposal for an amendment. She left the session in the assembly of the SDP MPs' Club. My suggestion is that we read the amendments. We care about the quality of the law, regardless of whether you leave the session, if you agree. You've got the amendments, so there's no need for me to read them. 35
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2462	Please don't read the amendments to those that aren't there. [[from place speaks]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2463	It's a deal, Mr. MP, no problem. It's a deal. In a legitimate way, it was won. The amendment has not been withdrawn, and I would not because it is not present – it does not say that he must defend, if he is not convincing, you will plead. Let's move on. I'm asking the promoter. He'll be at the end when he hears everything. Please, I suggest that the motionary speak last. Let him hear the opinion of the MPs. Here you are, gentlemen. There isn't. I propose that the Proposer be made aware of all the proposed amendments. I'm asking the motionary's representative to come forward. You've got all the amendments. We have amendments to four MPs and a fifth from the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2464	Ladies and gentlemen, honored representatives, the Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a law that has long been in preparation and we have first encountered this matter, it is practically part of a reform package that should lead BiH towards the market economy and towards elements that rule in democratic societies in which the market economy works. For this reason, the process of proposing this Law was a lot of open questions that today's MPs have shown here in their amendments that we together with our consultants, who helped us to draft this Law, had to reject in the most part because it was essentially a package. Both entities adopt the Audit Act. Bosnia and Herzegovina adopts the Law on the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions with the aim of setting up these audit offices, general auditors, but also with the aim of setting up a co-ordination body to discuss most of the issues that are still open through these amendments today. As much as one introductory part. And now I'd like to discuss the concrete amendments. The amendment the Constitutional Commission has made, and it is mentioned in several more of these amendments, which is that the Law is called "the Financial Business Audit Act of the BiH institutions". This amendment cannot be accepted because it is not just a financial business review. This is not exactly a classic inspection and a classic control. This is a matter of general review. Question go away?? Nowhere in the world is exclusively financial business. The question is the decisions they were supposed to make, let's say, which are the basis for spending these funds: whether they were taken by measuring bodies, how they were established, whether they were legal bodies etc. etc. So, not just a mere check that a simple inspection would determine in terms of whether there was some kind of seal decision, etc. Thus, the auditor enters a much higher analysis than is classic, so we remain behind the proposal that the Law is called “the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina”. Ambassador Bošnjak Milenko: Amendment No. 1. which says the word “Minister” should be deleted because there is no Ministry of Finance. Well, that's not even said. It's the minister in charge of finance affairs. At this point, it is Minister Ašanin, because he has a budget in his ministry. Tomorrow, what will be, the law will not change when the structure of the BiH Council of Ministers or something else changes. So, only the minister in charge of financial affairs, and that amendment is not accepted. 36 In Article 6, paragraph 3, it should be said that the auditor-general is appointed for three years by being appointed from another nation each time. It is a practice, and it is built here, to be appointed to five years in order to cross Parliament's mandate. Parliament's term of office is 4 years and thus creates an independent position of the general auditor, and the BiH presidency is what the decision is making. The BiH presidency makes decisions by consensus and thus is practically protected and this order we consider not to be the member. It is also proposed in Article 9 to delete this decision, to delete point (a) as it enters into the jurisdiction of the entity. However, in Article 9, point (a) states: "Precautions to ensure and collect and preserve the income of BiH institutions". The income of institutions, the collection of income is whether the donation of entities is on time and how they come. Whether revenues from administrative fees are collected as provided for in the Law. Then, too, in the control of other budgetary users who are, for example, the Statistics Agency, is mentioned here today, in which way it receives funds and whether these funds are submitted in a transparent manner and legally justified manner, and for this reason we believe that Article 9, point (a) should remain. Article 11 of the amendment states that Article 11 should be deleted because it can lead to abuse of function. And Article 11 reads: “The function of the auditor-general covers all the functions given to the auditor-general under any other law”. In other words, the law here has counted the functions of auditors. However, in some other lex specialis, special laws may give the auditor jurisdiction on certain matters. Now that's just what we're told here. So what other laws he is empowered to do is also in the description of his, let me say, such a job and, in that sense, we also think that Article 11 should remain. In Article 13(5), to delete the words “Minister of Finance Affairs” we said that. However, the transitional period given here until 31 December 2005. The proposal is in this amendment to stand up to “2002. year” and it was one of our interventions when we worked on this Law. Foreign consultants have been more prolonging the reasons for this until people are dressed, etc. However, we stand in the position that this proposed 2002 would be quite enough – two years of a transitional period and in this sense we would accept this amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "in the name of the government" should be replaced by the words "the Council of Ministers", which should be done in other members. We owe here an apology that wasn't technically introduced into this Law. In fact, when the term “v” is used in the international jargon, let me say, so the government means the entire establishment that implements the executive power. Therefore, it is not the government in the sense of the government of those with a large “V” or “Secrets Council”. And for this reason, this amendment is partly accepted in the sense that in Article 2, when it says "general definition" to add one, after all of these here what it means, to add "government" which means: the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry and all other executive institutions at the level of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is – in the text remains this “government” as a replacement for that part. So it's more about one thing, to say so, the complementarity of this law with similar laws in other countries. And Article 40 to adapt this Act, when it comes to intelligence agencies and protection agencies. Namely, it says here that the Agency mentioned is not constitutional. There's not a single intelligence agency mentioned here, but intelligence agencies, and there are, as far as we know, at least three, but there are certainly more. Some even entered the privatisation process. Therefore, we agree that this Article 40 is deleted, and that the laws to be established, if 37 of these agencies are set up at BiH level, then to write that adaptation in the law. Because this Article 40, essentially, leaves only the possibility that institutions, as budget users, will not have the same reports, to say so, to the public. However, this can also be said in the lex specialis, so we accept that amendment to delete article 40. When it comes to amendments to MPs Rađević: The Financial Audit Act, we have already said that we remain in the text of the Audit Act. Amendment 2 reads: that the institution is called "The Financial Audit Office of the BiH Joint Institutions" in our language dilemmas we have only left to translate the office from the office. So the question is letters, and it's not just a name issue, so probably in the text of a law that's on the Serbian version it's going to be called an office as we already have a case in other laws. Amendment 3 that the deputy general auditor's term of office is also three years. So this is consistent with what was proposed for the general auditor – so it stays there for five years and that amendment is not accepted. Amendment No 4. reads: point 3 of Article 10, which reads as follows: “The General Auditor will not take any activities related to the competences of the entity”. We think it shouldn't stand at all because then you should add the county, and the municipalities, and the villages, and the villages. Entities have their own review law. Therefore, the law will regulate the competencies of entity agencies. The co-ordination board will be at BiH level which will clearly define their competences. The amendment - in Article 13, in the second verse, the words “all” should be added to the words “common”, and in the third verse, instead of the words “judgments and bodies of the government, public funds” should be put in the words “Constitutional Court, Council of Ministers”. All ministries are joint ministries because they are the ministries of joint institutions, and the courts and bodies of the government, or public funds, think we should stay because it is not just the Constitutional Court. We also have the Court of Human Rights, not to mention some other, possibly political, connotations, etc. Therefore, we do not think that it should be counted but by one general noun to remain in this position, the courts and the authorities of the government, the public funds. Amendment 6. Again, that ministry is responsible for finance affairs – we have already said that. And in Article 29, point 2, point (c) should be deleted as it enters into the jurisdiction of the entity. In Article 29, paragraph 2, point (c) reads as follows: The most important functions of the coordination committee are also this point c) to determine the responsibilities for the audit of joint activities. So, for reviewing joint activities, which is said by the Co-ordination Committee and in which they are representatives of entity audits, and we do not consider it to be an incursion in entity competence. Then we have an amendment to Mr Smail Bećirbašić which we also accept in the following way: not to add a new member 4, but to add, in Article 3, point 2 behind point 1, which reads: "The BiH institutions' audit office has the status of the right person". Point 3: “The headquarters of the audit office is in Sarajevo, at the headquarters of joint institutions” and point 4. — Former point 2. of point 4. And we've had amendments to MPs Muminagić Suade. Also, regarding the name, Article 2 says "institution" means government, government agency, government body and government company in which the government has shares regardless of the size of the stake. The amendment is to add the text: all BiH institutions established by the BiH Constitution and law, then the government agency, etc. etc. It has a basis to accept this text as an improvement in this text. Amendment 2. In Article 2, the term ‘revision of the effect of the person or body’ means a review or examination of all aspects of the person’s work. Here the word “work” is changed in the word “business” of all aspects of the person’s business. Therefore, it is thought of the overall business of those persons or bodies – the amendment is accepted. Amendment 3. That Article 4 is also amended as follows: The Office for Auditing and Auditing Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina function is not accepted because the concept of audit is that there is an auditor-general as an individual, and the Office is the service of that auditor-general. Therefore, the Office is not auditing, but the auditor-general is auditing and the Office is the one who serves it. That would be a flash point of view regarding the amendments we received today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2465	Thank you very much. Dear Members of Parliament, you've heard. Obviously, it's worth it when we get a little tired, so it looks like we're calmer and calmer and we can work. And maybe when some of us leave to make it look better. I'm joking a little bit, but it's not a waste, we're all tired. Gentlemen, I have another proposal. To work today, let's say by 7:00, until 7:00, and continue – we'll be glad if we finish before, but I think we should work – not until 6:00 today we weren't productive and I think we're ashamed of what – it's a shame we're not having a session now. If you don't mind us working the longest till 7:00 and at 7:00, we'll interrupt and we'll discuss the follow-up. Now I ask the amendment's proposings, since there's not just one proposing here, do they give up their proposals, do they respect the explanation? I'd like to ask the motionaries to come forward. Please advise whether they accept the position of representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2466	Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say that, by the way, not just with this law, but with all the legal projects that are covered by the laws, some central institutions, agencies. I want to draw attention to the fact that it might be good to keep an eye on the decentralisation of sometimes such essential functions. I think Banja Luka, too, is speaking on behalf of Banja Luka, or Republika Srpska, without speaking about other BiH cities, in entities, deserves attention when we are discussing such important issues. So, here, I'd like it to be considered simply that these audit agencies or any other agencies find places not only in Sarajevo. Because the only decentralisation – headquarters here to – well, I want to say that the point is that all central institutions located in Sarajevo from the point of view of new employment, from the point of view of traffic, offices, etc. have an important reflection on the development of the environments where they are located. We must not overstretched this segment as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representative Council. That's what I'm talking about. So it would be good to think. Here, I do not insist specifically on these institutions, but to be a lesson for further development because, you see, talking about the development, the coherent development of BiH entities, and pleading that everything that has been centralized by some of the centralisations, related to Sarajevo, is difficult to defend politically, in that sense. Thank you very much. I don't insist... 39
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2467	I realized you were talking, but you didn't suggest anything. Am I right? For the future. Okay. Okay. Please, I would like to ask, who are, of course, present, do they accept the views of the Council of Ministers of BiH, or an authorised person? Here you go. A brief consultation, if people want, is not a waste, but don't take long breaks. Five minutes is enough – for people to consult is not controversial. Okay, I'm taking a five-minute break. But, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2468	The law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina - none has been adopted. I can give up on some of them, not some of them, so, anyway, I have to go in a row. Amendment 1 requiring an amendment to the name of the Law – I am not giving up this amendment for at least two reasons. An explanation that he refused to make under this business, that this law refers to various decisions, etc. which is related to financial affairs, I think, too, all the papers that monitor such transactions are subject to financial review. And the other reason I don't give up is because the Constitutional Commission's position is about what I asked for in this amendment. That's a very valuable reason not to give up on this amendment. Amendment 2, that is, in fact, my amendment, the terms "office" or "office", to me both terms correspond, both are in my own language. However, the point is that I want the financial audit to stand here, not the office or office, but I don't care what time it is. Amendment 3, where I request that the deputy also have a term of office for three years – I remain there because, too, the reason you rejected the amendment for both me and my colleague, Bošnjak, as a general auditor, I think, intertwining with the mandate of MPs. And this is how you get the intertwinations as well as when you're five years old. I give up Amendment 4. to be in point 10. etc. The fifth amendment, I remain in place of listing courts, government bodies, public funds, etc. that instead the Constitutional Court and the Council of Ministers stand. The reason is because they are, for now, the joint BiH institutions. Amendment six, I'm out. Amendment 7, I give up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2469	Keep going. Mrs. Bošnjak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2470	Amendment One, I'm out. Amendment 2, I remain, so in Article 6, paragraph 3, the general auditor should be appointed for three years, each time appointed from another nation. Amendment 3, I'm out. Amendment 4, same. Amendment 5 has been accepted. Amendment six, I'm staying. So in Article 16, point 3, the words "The Council of Ministers" should be. Amendment 7 has been accepted as well. 40
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2471	Thank you. Bećirbašić's amandman was accepted. So there's no need. The Constitutional Legal Commission amendment was not accepted. Are we gonna give up? I'm not about to give up, as a member. We've come forward and there's nothing to give up on. We can only resume. And if we give up, we haven't done anything, they'll vote the same. We have no reason – they will vote. As for Mrs. Suada's amendments, two amendments have been accepted. One isn't, I don't have a chance right now. We'll put what's accepted and what's not. Well, we certainly have to put both of them on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2472	It can also help you to go through all of this once and see what remains controversial and what is not disputed. We can't give up on this as a five-year term. Therefore, it is automatically the two amendments that solve the deputy because it is essential that the general auditor be independent. His independence, by these standards, is considered independence, to say so, from Parliament's present will whether or not he likes his report Four years under the Constitution. [[whispers]] So he's four years under the Constitution and what can happen? It may occur that Parliament does not like the report on its financial operations made by that auditor and they are changing the auditor, etc. It's an instrument of protection. So, that mandate would be five years. As far as this list goes. It's not possible to list there, either. Because I already said we have the Court of Human Rights, we have the Constitutional Court. But we also have the Statistics Agency, the Civil Aviation Department, the Telecommunications Agency, etc., etc. Therefore, each time it should then be amended, that is to say, to amend and supplement the law - the whole procedure in order to give authority to someone to do so. So we don't think that law should be changed in that sense. What could be accepted here It's in that preamble up front. [[intruders: from place]] We added more there, and that's how we solve this issue, from Amendment 6, on behalf of the government, replace this, etc. We have said there what the government means in small letters, as one, to say so, recognition because this law needs to go further by international financial organisations because it is one of the preconditions for further financial arrangements for BiH and with the IMF and with the World Bank and with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and they need to find some, to say so, recognizable terms. That's why we said, we add, I think, in Article 2, the government, it implies: the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, ministers and other joint institutions. As far as the name is concerned, we believe that there might be the same thing going on here, let's say, a compromise variant that this Law is called: the Financial Business Audit Act. Not about the financial audit because it's actually financial business. And together by respecting what the MP said was an integral part of the financial business decision from start to end, with what I say, since this Law was done with the great help of the international community, it is not in English that attribute is used financially but only by revision. We therefore propose that the law is called "the Financial Business Audit Act of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution". That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2473	Thank you. 41 Is there anyone else willing to participate in the debate? There isn't. We have to go now. Please, there's one question here, it's procedural. I'd like to get rid of him together. Here it is proposed that all amendments accepted by the Proposer enter into the membership of the Law – to become an integral part of the Law because the Proposer accepted them. But MPs do not have to vote on each amendment that way. That's a question. Polemics. I'm just asking the MPs. If you don't mind, I'll put it that way. I'm asking. Someone might say, "I'm not into it, and I'm asking nicely, and I have the right to vote."
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2474	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to resolve the dilemma, I am to vote individually for the amendments, and here's why. An amendment calling for it to have the right face and its head office in Sarajevo, I propose an amendment to have the property of a legal person and that it is based in Banja Luka and that we vote. Please, nice. So I'm defining now the amendment that I want us to plead on. It has a legal personality and is based in Banja Luka. Let's put these two proposals on an equal footing and make a statement. Please, nice. (Polemics) No, no, no. Because I'm right, and I just want to start fostering practice, here, from this law. So, I'm defining the amendment and I'm asking to make a statement about the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2475	I think, however, it's best to make every amendment known, so we'll see what becomes an integral part. What do we do? Let's take it in a row. Milenka Bošnjak hasn't given up amendment number two, and that's what I'm reading. Youmoratiti have to let me read. No, no, as soon as it's written, I'll put it to the vote right away. There's no problem. In Article 6, point 3 is to say that the general auditor is appointed for three years, each time being appointed from another nation. You heard. It's a three-year term. Please establish the quorum. 24 Who is for this amendment number two, Mrs. Bošnjak? 11. The amendment did not receive the required majority and was not accepted. Second, in Article 13(5), second and third lines, the words “Minister in charge of finance affairs” should be deleted because there is no such thing. Point 6 instead of number 2005 should be number 2002. As far as I'm concerned, you've given up and stayed only with this second part of the amendment. No, no, in Article 13, under point 5, so point 5, you've given up, Mrs. Bošnjak, have you given up? [[Intruder second part is accepted]] You're just in point six, point six, you're as far away as I know it. Are you in Article 13 giving up your attitude? Wait, let's see if she gave up. I think she gave up. Guys, I've been listening. Give me a chance. This has been accepted to vote. The vote just means the second part. We said we were voting on all amendments. In point 6, instead of the number 2005, it is due to stand in 2002, only to vote. Who's in? (Polemics) 42 We vote for everything. We said we vote for everything. We've read the Rules of Procedure. This is what it says here, gentlemen. Okay, so it's accepted, so, but maybe some MPs won't accept it. It will. So this part is accepted. The sixth amendment. In Article 16, point 3. “in the name of the government” should be replaced by “the Council of Ministers”. It's the same thing to do in all the other members. You stayed with this amendment. Who's in favor of this amendment? Twenty-four are present. 11. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7, Article 40, should be deleted because the agency mentioned is not constitutional. Amendment accepted. The name of the law. Here we have a compromise solution whether we will accept the proposal – does Mrs Rađević give up and accept the Financial Business Audit Act of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions? He accepts. So the amendment is accepted. In Article 3, Article 1 should read "A financial audit institution should be established Then it's automatic, okay. [[whispers]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2476	(speaks now)... the same Law on the revision of the financial operations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions. It's a constitutional decree. These are joint institutions which are an unconstitutional definition. They shall not be taken into account by the joint institutions as an unconstitutional provision. (Polemics)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2477	You are asking to delete the word “common”. It's in accordance with the Constitution. I think you're right. No, no, no. Don't intervene, it's okay. Is the Proposer Appreciating? Thank you. It's okay with the promoter. It's okay. Let me see where we left off. Now you've confused me. How can you confuse me? Let's move on. Article 7 of point 3 should state that the term of office of the deputy general auditor also takes three years. That's what's connected to earlier. You're not giving up. Who's in? It's not accepted. [[Intruder: We voted once and was not accepted]] There's no need for what you say. In the second verse of Article 13, the word “all” should be added to the word “common”, and in the third verse, instead of the words “judgments and bodies of the government, public funds” should be the words “Constitutional Court, Council of Ministers”. I'm asking the promoter, please, okay? Do you accept or not accept? I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? 10 not accepted. And the rest you gave up. Mr. Smail Bećirbašić's amendment was partially accepted. So instead of Article 3, in Article 4, and to remain in Article 3. Who's up for it? "The BiH institutions audit office has legal personality status. The headquarters of the Audit Office is in Sarajevo". Who's in? But it's a change, and that's why we pleaded because it's changed and it's not accepted as proposed. [[Invader Genjaca: Proposer accepted in part]] 43 (Polemics) [[Genca raider: But the applicant agreed to a change in how the promoter accepted it and it became an integral part.]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2478	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should either work seriously or say that at the end of every debate we are going into an unserious situation. We have agreed on all amendments that we will vote individually and that is why the amendment is defined against this amendment to make a statement. I am now interested in the basis of which the proposer agrees with this, and does not agree with this second one when it comes to the seat. What can the Proposer define? And I want you to just vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2479	There's no need. As much as my memory serves, but a three-session ago, if by numbers we go, this parliament adopted a decision on the seat of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that this is the building and that this is the area in which they should be placed, after reconstruction, all the joint institutions. The general audit is a joint institution and serves to audit BiH's joint institutions. In Banja Luka is the headquarters of an entity audit. In Sarajevo, too, the headquarters of the Federal Audit. So, the foothold is in the decision this parliament has made that it is the seat of all the Constitution and the laws adopted by the institutions and those that we will make together in this building.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2480	Here you go. Is there anyone else? Branko Dokić, MP Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2481	My suggestion is that these two proposals, in a way, settle. It wouldn't be good if we didn't get into a situation where we didn't pass the law. That's why I would suggest that we vote or accept that the promoter accepted the first part of Smail's proposal, and he was really in two parts, which is that this, as it is an audit and an institution, is a legal person, and on this second, we should vote together or two, or not at all enter the proposal to remain an open question, because if it is as Minister Tomić says, then there is no need for it to enter the law. And these things can be discussed later whether they're just like that or not. So my suggestion is that we're not even talking about headquarters at this point, but just to say it's a legal face.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2482	If I understand correctly, MP Dokić is asked for a compromise solution that says that Mr Bećirbašić gives up on the second part of his amendment, and Mr Špirić of the entire amendment. Spy, wait, I'll give you my word. Sit down. Now. I'm sorry, please, just a second. I, if I understand a compromise proposal, now, I invite you both to come forward with a compromise. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2483	I guess I don't have to teach anyone what legal personality means. And when someone has a legal personality, what happens afterwards in the work of institutions, etc. about what I was talking about. I suggest we vote on both amendments. An amendment that receives the required majority will be entered into the membership of the law. I'm not about to get this into the text, and I'm not about to, like, see it in the next... Just before Ibro says, let's get this over with, and we'll see in the next one. Therefore, I insist that we make a statement on the amendments. I don't insist or know what the solution will be. Don't when we get into the essentials of pretending we're not skilled at what it's all about. The property of a legal person knows what it is. Right to the jury account and the rest, etc., etc. Everything that draws what goes after it. I'd like to warn you that everything that has a legal personality pulls behind it and new employment, and finance, and this and that. That's why I pointed out that decentralised Bosnia and Herzegovina has a bright future. Centralized, I'm not convinced. But, let's not discuss it, I'm asking you to come forward with me on two amendments. I don't give up on the amendment. I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2484	And I will not forbid what you say. I beg you, I think there's a compromise here. If what the chairman of the Council said is true, if there is a decision where the seat is why then go to what Branko said, go to complicate things. I'm afraid we're gonna nail things here and waste our time. Come on, gentlemen. I suggest you give up both of these parts of the amendment. Here, let me take it easy. What would I do if I did? (Polemics) [[spills from the scene speaking]] This is Spahić, Branković and Vi. I've got to go in a row.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2485	I suggest this very simple. Mr. Dokić made a very reasonable proposal. It's very easy. He said that what is the essence of acceptance, by the promoter contained in the statement – please, that the legal face is this institution and that it is understood that we made three meetings ago to the Decision and I know that Mr Špirić was the loudest and I believe there is no dispute there. Let the magnetogram or stenogram, as you call it, be seen that it was a very dynamic, serious debate. I think we can conclude that and accept that if there is something to vote on, then we should avoid the traps and accept Mr. Dokić's statement and attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2486	Messenger - replica. Here you go. I need to give you a line, what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2487	Ladies and gentlemen, please, I don't need Mr. Ibro to paraphrase whether I've been loud or less loud. But now I have to explain to him what the point is. Mr. Ibro Spahić, we gave up on the principle that was governed by the Rules of Procedure, 2+1, by letting it know that we have a good will for this Parliament to work, so we wanted to sort it out, whether it was a proposal and thinking in the form of a district, so when this is all of us because BiH institutions are excluded, then we can discuss this. But everywhere in the democratic world, fighting is about the bag and about the funds. I guess I don't need 45 to convince what a legal person is. Pam, we need to learn to cherish every part of BiH and one entity and the other and Sarajevo. If we're not ready to say it, then clearly we're not. And every one of these laws will be tested. You understand. So we'll probably open up the debate. Nothing is set in BiH's development. Why would it be? Why would it be nailed, I don't get it. And the moment we cultivate such a style, then I will believe that everyone really cares about the development of BiH. You don't have to convince me the way I was at the last sessions. I know what I was discussing and what my intention was. But it doesn't always have to go through Nikola Špirić's mind. Here, I have an amendment, please state against it. I'm not asking you to have a debate just to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2488	The Messenger is giving up. Thank you very much. The Ambassador of Neimarli gives up. Branko Dokić, is he giving up his compromise solution? Ambassador Dokić can't hear me. Branko Dokić, does he give up his proposal for this compromise solution? Ambassador Dokić can't hear me. Are you giving up your proposal for a compromise solution to this one you suggested? So you're not giving up. [[Branko Dokic: speaking from the site, you can't hear. I don't see any reason to give up...]] Okay, I have to put it to a vote. I have to respect everything. Please, does Mr. Bećirbašić give up this second act? Then he becomes the same as Brank's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2489	On 19 July, therefore, on the seventh, a decision was adopted on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their status and conditions and method of use and was published in the Official Messenger No. 12, which says: “The building referred to in point 2 of this decision will house the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and its services, the Presidency and its services, the Council of Ministers and its services, the ministries, agencies and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The building referred to in point 2 of the decision will also accommodate all other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina established by the BiH Constitution, BiH laws and decisions of the competent authorities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina." So this Decision has practically established the headquarters of all the institutions, the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which this Parliament has and, therefore, the motion is being managed by what this parliament has adopted. I propose, the chairman, that, if it remains consistent with the way the amendments are discussed, then those accepted by the proposer have been accepted, and that for the others who remain in their votes, it is going to the method.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2490	You know what, Mr. Tomić, the problem is next. What you have accepted as a proposal, there are MPs who do not accept and I cannot prevent them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2491	But then you should put that amendment to the vote. And what the promoter has accepted is accepted. poslanik Neimarlija. 46
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2492	My colleagues, fellow MPs, I gave up the discussion. Otherwise, I thought I would say that I support MP Dokić's proposal because the inclusion of amendments that MP Špirić made would assume a previous declaration of annulment, in a way, and the question of the decision we had made earlier, as regards simple decisions that all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are located in this area. The vote on this amendment would imply a number of technical issues. Because it doesn't mean anything in Banja Luka. When said in Sarajevo, it is not said in Sarajevo abstractly but in a space very precisely defined by this Decision. Therefore, we cannot crash at the expense of a decision that defined the matter and in terms of space as a specific space for the joint institutions. Therefore, the amendment cannot be formally measured.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2493	Thank you. So, I ask Commissioner Bećirbašić once again, can we coordinate your part with Dokićević? He can't. Okay, you're staying. Okay, thank you. Okay, we vote for the amendment of the gentleman, he doesn't give up, so he doesn't accept the position Not now, folks, I heard exactly what happened. [[STAMMERS]] Did I just ask, Ibro? Take it easy, Špirić. I know, we're tired, but take it easy. Don't hang up, man. We broke up, lost all day guessing. Who is for Mr Bećirbašić's amendment, which reads that Article 3 adds a new member, "The BiH institutions' audit office has legal personality status. The headquarters of the Audit Office is in Sarajevo” Mr. Tomić now said there was no need for this second part because it was regulated. [[STAMMERS]] Don't do me, I've been listening to a man now. Who's in, listen and vote. Mr Bećirbašić's amendment. Who's in? (Polemics) Let's give the man a hand. I'll have a syringe, please. Mišo, you have the word, here, here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2494	I've had a late burn right now, but I've been thinking deeply about the words Mr. Neimarlija said. I apologize if I made a mistake in my last name. Look, I absolutely agree with Mr. Tomić's explanation. However, I’ve been to a large meeting by circumstances and I can’t go from being the general position behind which we have to stand. The legal entity will also be an example for association, a sports association. He'll have a legal personality for sure. This does not mean that it must absolutely be and have its headquarters in Sarajevo. Therefore, Well, it's not a government institution. [[whispers]] Please, would you be so kind as to read the chapter of the bill that we now need to vote on? I'm interested in the header. Based on what you're talking about? Please read the chapter. You can't see it from the header. That's right. [[(Intruder: preamble.) No preamble)]] What is the legal basis for this claim that you are now making here? Thank you very much. In this context, I believe it is absolutely well-founded to vote for the second proposal, i.e. Mr Špirić's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2495	Okay, thank you. We vote for Parliamentarian Bećirbašić's proposal. Who's in? 47 11 of 24 present. The amendment didn't get the required majority. There's no need to vote entityally. Mr Špirić's amendment refers to the same thing, so we can end it right now. Who's in? 11. None of them have passed. This is the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. It's the right thing to do. Dokić, are you giving up your proposal? (Polemics) Please, so can I have some? Mr. Špiruć, you didn't withdraw your proposal. poslanik Dokić, does he want to vote?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2496	My suggestion is that these two proposals be reconciled. [[speaks from place]] Since these two proposals haven't reconciled, I have no suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2497	Thank you very much. He didn't even deliver it to his office, so I wouldn't let it go. I think that the Commission's amendment to constitutional and legal issues has been accepted in part and I think that the Commission can be in agreement with that. 2 amendments Mrs. Suada Muminagić have been accepted. Hear ye, O Bog, O Lord. We must always have SDP here. In Article 2, the term “Institution” means all BiH institutions established by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the law, then the government agency, government body and government company in which the government has shares regardless of the size of the stake. There's a dispute here. I'd beg, but there's no proposal. She writes a big letter to the government, and I see she's small in you. (Polemics – laughter) That's a big problem now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2498	Mr. Chairman, there is no government word in the amendment. The amendment reads that in front of that government, the government agency, so in small letters, this is only in bold letters, all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina established by the Constitution of BiH and the law, and then the government remains in the further part of the text, so only before that is added the text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2499	No, no, we understand each other. But what about this government with the big letter?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2500	Where is it? (Here in brackets) But it's not an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2501	It's just in fat letters. Great. Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Chairman's proposal, who's in favour of this amendment, accepted and I think we can accept it. Thank you very much. (Polemics) He's accepted. Let's move on. In Article 2, the term “impact audit” means a review or examination of all aspects of the operation of the person or body. Instead of the word “work” the word “business”. I don't think so, it's an improvement in the text. Is it okay, I'm asking the MPs. Yes, it is. Thank you very much. 48 We vote on Amendment 3 which has not been accepted, which is "The Function of the Audit Office is to audit the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina". He's not accepted. Who's in favor of accepting? It's nobody. Thank you very much. That, gentlemen, we've exhausted everything. Now we have an integrated text with accepted amendments. Polemics.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2502	Article 2 at the end of the text adds "government", means the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the ministries and other executive bodies of BiH institutions. [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2503	I can accept that, but it has to be. Do you know why? There may be a service error and then we come, clearly, it's very important, I want it to be written. Who's in? Mirković, come in for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2504	Mr. President, honourable MPs, this kind of meeting is extremely unserious. If we have agreed that each amendment goes into voting procedure, then we will vote each amendment, and not accept the Council of Ministers, and it is in the integral text. I don't think it's serious at all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2505	I don't think you, sir, were looking away when I was talking. Here, sir, there was a vote on everything the MPs asked for to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2506	Except for what Mr. Neven Tomić accepted as an integral part.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2507	Do you, Mr. MP, have anything you'd like to vote for?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2508	Of course not. It'll be at the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2509	We'll do that later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2510	In Article 2 at the end of the text, the text reads "government", means the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, ministries and other executive bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions. 49
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2511	You heard. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Niko. No abstentions. So unanimously accepted. I am putting the integral text of the Law to vote with the amendments that have been proposed and adopted here. Who's in? 21 out of 24. Three of them have been held back. Do you mind? Excuse me. Well, I can see there isn't. Thank you very much. There's no one here. Would you mind if I asked one more time? Well, no, don't, please. We've declared the abstentions. Does anyone have any objections to the voting process? There isn't. Please, by entities we vote. Please, you have to go after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 10 Thank you. From Republika Srpska? 10 There's a required majority. Thank you very much. Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on problem-solving in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, sir. The Vice-President of the Commission will state the position of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2512	It's very unpopular to go out for a pay phone like this twice in a row. But since the situation is such, I will make a few notes about – the Commission for Transport and Communications is scheduled on 30.9.1999. Calls shall be made to the members of the Commission. However, on an scheduled date, under the proposal of this law, the Commission did not hold a meeting for the reason there was no quorum. Therefore, I appeal to the College to suggest certain measures, affecting the active participation of committee members, now not only to be apriors for the Commission on Transport and Relationships. Because this Commission has not been held, I will make some minor observations and my remarks on the proposal for this law. The very name of the Law, the Law on solving problems in BiH in 2000, for those who are not referred to what it is, can represent one such relief on the heart, so it says: ah, here it is, a good law that solves all the problems of 2000. But for those who enter the essence of this law, it can be interpreted as a problem that arises in the fields of information, electronics, telecommunications and computer processing. I would therefore suggest that this law does not go in this name, means that the legislator amends the name – the proposed name of the Law and that the name reads as follows: “The law on resolving the problem of synchronising the work of the computer in 2000”. Computers, equipment and what's going on in that box, clearly, software and hardware. Article 12 of this Law provides for the Law to enter into force on the date of its adoption, and according to our Interim Rules of Procedure, the laws enter into force on the eighth day of their publication in the Official Messenger. It's two of my remarks that I find justified and so acceptable to the promoters.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2513	I'm asking him to surrender in writing as scheduled so we can vote. 50 I put the law on the table. Ambassador Dokić and Rađević reported.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2514	Ladies and gentlemen, I know everyone's patience is over, but let's try to pass another law today. Right at the beginning, let me say that I don't see the purpose of this law, especially at this point. If this law was to be passed, then it should have been brought at least half a year ago, if not at the beginning of this year. But let's not get into it, let's not get too involved. We're starting with the need for that law now to be passed. I have a few objections if we adopt it. The first remark is, as counterpart Mirković pointed out, to his name and therefore I suggest that this name be brief and that it be “Y2K Law” as stated in the first article. It's a code in the world that's completely recognizable. This Y is from, is, is, 2K is – K is prefix from 10 to the third, and 2000 can be written as 10 to the third, and then it's clear to everyone what it is. And down in Article 1. then the rules of change would be and that would be the Law on Y2K, and in brackets if it were necessary to say that it might be, what the Legal and Constitutional Affairs Commission proposed, the Law on Compensation of Computer Work in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So if in one place it's necessary to specify what it is, that's how it is. The following is my point in Article 3, paragraph 4. Here's the national plan. I'm asking what a national plan is. If he is in BiH, then it would have to be national plans, and there are no plans. That is why I propose, simply, that it be a “BiH plan”. This is the keybinding for all of this “BiH plan”. I'm asking you to listen to me till the end. This is Article 3, 5. He continues to say, in the text, "national plan" to be "BiH plan", and it is understood here. I have a lot of objections to some language structures like this. a seller of information, electronic or computer equipment. It can't be electronic or computer. It can only be electronic and computerized. It can be informational or electronic, but this clause doesn't stand at all. There's plenty more of them. I wasn't in a hurry to get under it. In any case, it would be helpful to give an informer or an electronics expert a lecturer. That's it. The rest, I think, is acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2515	I ask Mr. Dokić to comment yes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2516	In Article 2. I think the proposal for this law has one tautology "this law applies to the entire state territory of BiH". I suggest you leave out the words: all-state and all-state. The importance remains exactly the same and essential, it is on the territory of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no need to be a tautology.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2517	I, concerning this bill, also, have an objection and an amendment to Article 2. I'll literally read it and then read it the way I think it should be. So, "this law applies to the entire state territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina". I suggest that it reads: This law applies to the territory of the entities of the Republic of Serbia and the entities of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina that make up Bosnia and Herzegovina. 51 In this way, I believe it is necessary for entities to be given the importance given to them by the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. No, at first glance, it just seems like it's about neck or neck – I think it's quite different. Just like this because it is very important for me, as an MP, to indicate what it does to Bosnia and Herzegovina and even in a law like this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2518	Since I know that Mr Deretić is attached to the Constitution and the laws and that he is an expert, I would just like to say that in the Constitution of BiH, as you all know, in all parts, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is said to be made up of entities, etc., that I do not list, and not vice versa, that entities form a state. Such a constitutional category does not exist yet. If it's found somewhere in the Constitution or the Dayton Agreement, I'd like to read it. But there's no such thing as safe. As much as memory can serve me, I think it's neither neck nor neck, but it's exactly what's in the Constitution, and I think it's very correct.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2519	Mišo Deretić – replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2520	In view of this observation by Mr Spahić, I am only changing my amendment a little so that the form would be satisfied, so I suggest that it is the same: This law applies in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina made up of the entity Republika Srpska and the entity Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2521	Okay, thank you. Does anyone else have this amendment? There isn't. Let the Proposer make a statement on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2522	The present members of the Council of Ministers here have considered these remarks, and we propose that the bill on resolving the problem in 2000 in the information and communication systems in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although it may be this variant that Y2K is told, this one is much clearer to be like the law. Article 2 of that text: This law applies to Bosnia and Herzegovina. We think it's a compromise proposal that reconciles the constitutional, political outsmarts we heard during the debate. And that plan, to be bh. the plan and problem-solving in 2000, which is proposed in the debate and I think that this is how the legal basis is to implement these measures. Article 12 to accept an amendment which states that the law enters into force 8 days after the publication of what was your intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2523	Thank you very much for your proposal. I ask MPs who have proposed amendments if they respect the applicant's explanation and do they give up? Rađević – abandonment. Mirković – so accepted and you gave up. Okay. Mišo Deretić. 52
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2524	I am not giving up... my proposal is in line with the Dayton Agreement and the BiH Constitution. [[speaks from place]] Please, as suggested, Republika Srpska's entity is not mentioned anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2525	Okay, I know, I can see this. poslanik Dokić, is he giving up?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2526	I have nothing to give up on. [[speaks from place]] It's not. The title is the little one. I couldn't figure out if you were going to give up anyway. Dokić speaks from the scene and the title is not heard. Thank you very much. Accepted. (Polemics) This is an incredible tolerance. We are voting on the amendment of MP Deretić, which reads that in Article 2, Article 2, this law applies to the territory of the entities of the Republic of Serbia and the entity of the Federation of BiH... Ambassador, I know what it says. (Polemics)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2528	The law applies to Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, consisting of the Republika Srpska entity and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity. [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2529	This law applies to Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, consisting of entities Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's up for this proposal? 11 out of 23. He didn't get the necessary majority. I think you're tired. I mean, really, you're tired. I mean, really, this isn't right. I would now like to pass another law if we knew... So this amendment was not accepted. I suggest we now vote on a full law with the amendments accepted. Who's in? Who's against it? You told me he was 23. She's 24 now. Please, you just told me the quorum is 23 and now the vote is 24. How much do you count? One more time. I'm sorry. Has anyone come in? How many are present in the O.R. Now you've told me 23 votes for and one man raises his hand against it. So how do you count him? How many are in the O.R. present? 23. Who's in? 22 53 Against 1. Please, who's by entities from the Federation of BiH for? Ten. It says 10. Once again, please, there is an observation. Ten. It's good. From Republika Srpska? 10 You know what Staljin said, it is not who votes but who counts. Thank you very much. The law has won the entity majority and this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2530	Ladies and gentlemen, I have one proposal, given that the first points of the agenda are legal projects, which is quite logical, that MPs are rested to discuss legal projects, to do what we do from 11 to 8 hours and see if we are able to continue and when we continue to work further, to limit time. I think that – I'm not sure how much this can lead to some serious work going on. If Parliament agree to work further, we should only limit how long we will work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2531	Please, let's go to point 4. Gentlemen, I've asked you how long we'll work. You told me that. What do you want now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2532	The next law we have to plead on, I really think it'll take a lot more time than these half-hours that we have left at our disposal. In that context, I suggest that with this point, so the 3rd point of the agenda, we conclude today's session and continue the next session of that date as agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2533	I agree that, too, please, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen and everyone who participates in the work, especially the journalists who are careful, I agree entirely on one condition that the next session, when it is scheduled, does indeed start with the point of this Law and that we do not engage in delaying it, etc. So, let's make a commitment that the first item of the agenda, this law, is going to be, and we're not going to introduce new things until we finish adopting this law. Good agenda, but not to re-enter third subjects, conversation all day, etc. [[STAMMERS]] That's one thing. Secondly, since we still have time, the fifteen more minutes we have, I would ask Mr. Prlić to let us know about the things we were looking for at the beginning of the information. Since it makes no sense not to get information on issues that he has had the opportunity to, in some way, put on the agenda in contact with UN partners. I think it's very important for this Parliament. That's how we can conclude this session. That's my suggestion, if, of course, you agree. I think it's good for the foreign minister to provide one brief piece of information about it. If you want to accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2534	We're not gonna finish this session, we're gonna break it up and pick up where we left off. And there will be no change of agenda. We now have a proposal... Here you go. (Polemics) 54
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2535	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'll only give you brief information. I am, as I understand it, more about point 12. I'll give you just short information, since some of the activities are under way, you just have, just about, a review in which direction the whole process is going on. A few questions were mentioned here. First of all, when it comes to the Council of Europe and the accession to the Council of Europe. At the last session of the BiH Presidency, I informed about the level of implementation of the commitments we received when it comes to the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe. The Bureau accepted that information. True, this information does not cover all the activities carried out since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not provide information on the matter within the appropriate time-limit. What's most important right now is a few points that are most urgent. Two of them refer to this parliament. So this is a condition that Parliament is working regularly, that it has a work programme that we have already talked about. The second important point regarding this Parliament is the adoption of the Immigrant and Asylum Act. That is the next point that we have come to at this session of Parliament. The next is, most importantly, I'm saying, to clear the teaching programs from what's called the so-called program. offensive content against each other in primary and secondary education programmes. That part, according to the information, was made from both entities. And the next is to achieve improvement when it comes to implementing the Commission's decisions on human rights and ombudsmans in BiH, and to record a tendency to improve when it comes to the return of refugees and exiles to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Although it is not a clear condition, at least in the talks in this regard it has not been set as a precise condition until a certain deadline, it is also the adoption of the Election Law. What I can inform you at this point is that the law is expected to go into procedure sometime at the end of this month. At least, they inform the relevant international factors, which have mostly been involved in the preparation of this law so far, and you are probably informed that at the last meeting of the BiH Administrative Council for Peace Implementation, the law should be adopted by the second month of 2000. If these activities were to be carried out at this pace I spoke of, I think it is realistic to expect the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, based on the next session, which is in January, so in the first month of next year, to consider BiH's accession to the Council of Europe. So, we ended the first phase of the process in the first month of this year when the Committee of Ministers adopted the initiative and transferred the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. When it comes to relations with the European Union, only briefly, political dialogue has been opened as we have informed you. We have made specific information on the work of a consulting task force which, in fact, has the task of adapting the overall economic and legal system of Bosnia and Herzegovina for accession requirements to the European Union. This advisory task force has made recommendations but I must say that we cannot be satisfied with the work in implementing these recommendations. No level of organisation in BiH has sufficiently met what was expected of them. Those recommendations are very clear. They were also sent to the BiH Council of Ministers and both entities' governments. However, the reaction was very slow and therefore we had to postpone the consultation session that was scheduled to begin this month by a month. Because what was to be done was not done. In this way, I think we are doing ourselves an absolute bear service, questioning a total of one dynamic relationship with the European Union. I think I'll suggest that in the end, I'll give you all these 55 recommendations so you have them. They concern all areas, for example, when it comes to foreign direct investment, bilateral agreements on protection, investment improvement, double taxation avoidance, the Law on Foreign Direct Investment Policy, which still needs to be done in it, the tasks of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments. The industrial strategy should be developed in both entities. The internal market should be regulated, appropriate acts concerning competition and consumer protection in BiH and public administration reform, etc. In all these areas, the recommendations were largely not implemented at entity level, nor at the level of the BiH Council of Ministers, although they were all given the appropriate time. You are informed that the General Affairs Committee, therefore, made up of foreign ministers, envisioned a new form of contractual relations as a possibility for Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is an agreement on stability and accession. For these five countries in the region, therefore the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the SR Yugoslavia, the Republic of Albania and Macedonia has already made up a study of similarities. It is working for Albania, with the results not being as expected by Albania at least. While still Croatia and BiH have not been joined in making such a study of similarity or feasibility studies in a relationship that is less or less familiar to you. Our goal, which we have significantly questioned because of these irresponsible in relation to the tasks of the Advisory Working Group, was that, with the European Commission's positive report on the realization of... approach, in November of this year, we get the conditions for a study of similarity for the preparation of negotiations on this agreement for BiH. With this agreement that is now envisaged, we can, in fact, shorten that common accession procedure by about two years. I want to say one more thing. When it comes to the European Union, there are no more big political decisions, no more press conferences or big decisions – we are part of Europe and the rest, this stage is over. We now have in front of us a painful technical job of adapting to 23 different areas foreseen by the White Book which, often pointed out, contains about 80,000 pages. When it comes to the Stability Pact. We've had a series of activities in this period. I must say that I believe that we have achieved an extraordinary success, because BiH has become the chairman of the working table for security. For the economy it is in Macedonia's first rotation, and for democracy, now I can't remember whether Hungary or Bulgaria is well, it doesn't matter, I'll tell you later. There were a lot of countries against that proposal. We have sent a demarch to the capitals of those countries. I have maintained several contacts with foreign ministers and thanks to support and the European Security and Co-operation Organisation of BiH has received the Work Table. I made up the information and today I also directed it to the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers on the forms of our performance at the upcoming and first desk held last month along with proposals for our performance for these upcoming three working tables. So, the working table on democracy, the working table on economic reconstruction, held at the end of this month in Bari, Italy. The next month is a meeting in Geneva, a working table on existing democracy and human rights, and then a desk is held in Oslo on security in which BiH will serve as co-chair. The material that I will deliver to you after this session provides for the basic points of our performance with the fact that it is in the BiH Presidency to determine the representatives of BiH and when it comes to the work table as a whole, as well as the working tables of these three different areas. We have predicted, in line with those discussions that have been conducted so far, with which initiatives BiH will appear in all three of these round tables. Let's say the economy, 56, is about building important corridors of transport, gas pipeline, further liberalisation of economic relations in the region, fighting corruption and taking measures to make this area attractive to foreign investment. When it comes to security, I think that so far we have had the only constructive proposal, which is the reduction of both budgets and military expertise by 15%, and that is the most concrete proposal that one country has ever had when it comes to the Stability Pact with what is foreseen in that context by a whole series of measures. Because stability and security aren't just a military element. It's a fight against organised crime. We were also carriers and activities to show up in the World Bank for the first time, together, six countries in the region as a beneficiary of credit under the SECIA project, building new border crossings in the region, which would be the basis for preventing smuggling, illegal trade, etc. I think that in political terms, indeed, and here we said, in New York, when we had a meeting with Secretary of State Madelaina Albright, who highlighted this constructive role that BiH has played so far. So these are the shortest information that might be of daily character, and that's why I thought it was important that I introduce you to them. After this session, I will also deliver this to you when it comes to the task force and when it comes to the Stability Pact as well as the current state of affairs when it comes to meeting BiH's conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2536	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. So let's do it again, this won't be a replacement for point 12. This was only five minutes longer, according to Rihter or Merkali, not known now, it was a little longer, but we do. I'm asking Mr. Minister to deliver to us in writing that MPs may be given a session until further notice.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2537	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, just one little announcement. First, I would like to thank the Service, which has delivered the translation of the conclusions of the Council of Europe's main rapporteurs for Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Bloetzer and Mrs Hanneka Gelderblom-Lonkhaut-Lonkhaut in the languages of BiH, so I assume that you have all read this very carefully and that you are familiar with each paragraph. I'd like to inform you that the chief human rights reporter has changed, it's no longer Mrs. Gelderblom-Lonkhaut-Lonkhaut. Her party lost in the last elections and was withdrawn from the Council of Europe and her post as chief rapporteur for human rights took over from Finland, which was the chairman of a constitutional affairs expert at the Finnish parliament, named Anneli Jaattenmaki. It will come October 21st and 22nd and will be a guest of BiH and we will have a chance to see it. My brief proposal is that, given the conditions set by the Council of Europe before BiH in terms of its acceptance as an equal member in many items, it is my proposal that recommendations, i.e. the entire report by Mrs Hanneka Gelderblom relating to human rights be addressed to the entity parliaments so that entity parliaments meet what they are obliged to do in terms of meeting the conditions. So, all those cases that are not in the power of the state parliament must be brought by entity parliaments, and I suppose it would help them to be familiar with this report. So my proposal is for Mrs. Gelderblom's report, which is great, to be forwarded to our languages and to the entity parliaments, the Federation of BiH and RS. 57
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2538	Thank you very much. I suggest the House of Representatives accept this proposal. Please refer to the sekretarijat, even before the agreement on the continuation of the work, let me tell you that we agree that the sekretarijat will once again update the request for a report from the Council of Ministers for Points 6 and 7, then point 9, point 11, that parliamentary delegations should complete all reports that have not been completed, please be prepared here, and point 12, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, too - to send, therefore, a written letter to points 6, 7, 9, 11. - No, eleven refers to us and to the Council of Ministers of BiH and 12. Please, as far as the proposal for a work programme is concerned, it should do so to the College with representatives of Parliament clubs and MPs who do not have parliamentary clubs and to continue the session. So we're not going to change the agenda, but we're going to continue with the point four that will become point one when we go to work. I suggest that it be 19.10 at 11.30 minutes. (Polemics) You know what, tomorrow's the House of Peoples, and there's a few important things. A parliamentary delegation travels to Germany for 7 days on Saturday. I don't mind. Here you go, MP. I don't mind if we agree not to attend the Interparliamentary Union session – well, we're here to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2539	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to have to take this. I think at this point, the continuation of this house's session is a key matter for the work of this house. All others are secondary and Interparliamentary Union, and breaks, and delegation visits and everything else. I'm asking the College, it doesn't have to be declared now, but I insist on some working conclusion that the College undertakes that, as soon as possible, call for an extension of this session. That's what I'm proposing, and it can't possibly be 15 days from today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2540	Okay, well, I agree with the MP and no problem. As far as I'm concerned, I'll postpone my trip and stay. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2541	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the previous debater. I think this parliament has to start doing things that concern it. It would be good for us to work normally and that every day someone from the BiH Parliament is out there talking about how we work. And that's why I think I have a reasonable proposal to do that – because there's nothing more for the College to agree on. We have a agenda. So this is the sequel. I think we can continue this on Thursday, Friday, depends when it fits and I think – does not mean that we will end the next sessions if we enter the fundamental debates, but at least we have to let it know that we want to work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2542	Mr. Špirić, let's be realistic. I'm up for it now and I'm up for it tomorrow. But look, we can continue and realistically what we can do. We're going down again. Here, point four, we can continue without a problem. Point 5. We can continue without a problem. Points 6 and 7 cannot, the BiH Council of Ministers did not deliver. Dot 8 can. Wait, please, let's see what we can do. Next, the report, 58, we don't have the financial part, it can't. The proposal for a program can't go that fast. You think we could have agreed so quickly, we wouldn't have gotten as far as we could, if we could, I'm in favour of accepting that proposal and we're going with it. Furthermore, a report by parliamentary delegations – how many reports have been submitted, I ask the sekretarijat. There's not one, therefore, he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2543	There's no need to waste time. [[speaks from place]] I suggested that the College, today or tomorrow morning, agree to continue the session, but so that it would be the most important thing. (Polemics)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2544	As soon as possible and no later than 15 days. (Polemics) [[speaks from place]] Please, Mr. Špirić's proposal to continue Thursday of this point that we can finish. (Polemics) We'll let you know about it. The session was completed at 1900 hours. End 59
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2546	Members, honored guests, I propose we continue the work of the 11th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. I welcome you all, especially our guests present today, representatives of information funds, co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers and other international organisations present at the session. 12 MPs from Republika Srpska and 21 from the Federation of BiH came to the meeting. So we have a quorum - we can work. The absence was announced: Ivo Mijačević, due to his illness, and due to the official route they are absent: Ibrahim Spahić, Tarik Čaršimanović, Vito Rakić, Branko Dokić and Safet Oručević. If there's anyone else out there, he hasn't announced his absence. So no one else announced the absence. Before working at this session, gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the following: You know that MP Kadić, at the end of our work at the previous session, said that our priority is to continue the work of the session and that it should be subordinated. Right after that, we held the Kolegijum and, of course, the unanimous conclusion of the College of the House of Representatives is that the most important job is to continue this session. Of course, for that reason, I did not travel, as a member of the delegation, to a meeting of the Interparliamentary Union. So that's why I didn't travel, because the unanimous attitude, and your demand, was to keep the session going as soon as possible. So, there's gone an incomplete delegation and I'm asking you to know that, too. I hope there will be no official views of the delegation there, because it is not complete. The second thing, the predstavnički of Representatives has not established any official views with which it could occur. I'm asking you to know that. I'm saying this for the reason that it's been before, which we'll probably be informed of, and a step that's not agreed on at the House of Representatives or in the membership of delegations. I wouldn't want that kind of practice to show up right now and I hope she doesn't show up. But if she showed up, then I accept the gestures of the Lord who left, and I think it's okay. But, please, it's just personal impressions and can't be the views of the delegation since it's incomplete. My reason for the absence is the proposal of MP Kadić and the position of the Kolegijum that the continuation of the session is the most important thing to do. And we're continuing the session. So I didn't go to the Interparliamentary Union session. We agreed, so there wouldn't be an explanation why I didn't leave, now the reason you know. We continue to work with the fourth point. 60 Ad.4. A proposal for a law on immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina You received the bill in time. Before I open the discussion at this point, you've still got the materials for two points of the agenda today. That's for point seven and point nine. Will you accept that we are discussing these points today, since the rapporteurs are present at these points? The materials came today, if you will accept, that the rapporteurs stay, if you will not accept, to postpone it for some extension within one, two, three days - as agreed today. I just don't want there to be any issues again -- we didn't get the materials, we won't accept it, etc. Will we also accept a debate on these two agenda points for which you have now received the material - at the session? Who's to accept a debate at these points? To read, I apologize, I thought you had a agenda. Point 7. - Report on the request of the SDP MPs' club to issue passports. The material arrived half an hour ago. Is it multiple material? I ordered the material delivered. He came in half an hour ago, Mr. Ašanin handed it to me, although I claim Mr. Ašanin is here, that the 5.10. was sent the material. The Secretariat didn't receive that material, so I was informed. It's multiplying, isn't it? Next, the financial part of the Stability Pact. Mr. Bičakčić delivered the material. Did you get these kind of papers, take a look? It's been delivered. Shall we discuss these two points? Who's in? Please, two MPs have come forward for a word. Here you go, Špirić and Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2547	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, last completion of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly I realized that today we are working on the points of the agenda that have been adopted. For some we have complete materials, some we don't have. So it's impossible to re-pronounce now whether we're going to vote for the agenda that's been adopted. We said we wouldn't have the principle of putting in new agenda points until we finish this session. Please, don't bring us from the Club of Chairmans into a dilemma. When we get to the point of the agenda, we'll figure out if there's any material, whether there's no material, whether there's a basis for a valid discussion, or if we're going to look for additional material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2548	Thank you very much. That's exactly how it was adopted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2549	Dear Members, we fully accept the proposed agenda with the request to inform Parliament of the authentic interpretation of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's conclusion on the occasion of the disputed vote on inclusion in the agenda of the draft law on holidays at the 11th session of the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2550	Thank you very much. 61 This is now the addition of the agenda, to which the apostle is right. Businessly, a man has the right to propose, during a session, an addition to the agenda. He's got that right. It's another thing whether you vote for it now or not. I'm obliged to put it to a vote. The Rules of Procedure set it up. Please, who's up for it? Please, let your fellow Rules of Procedure read it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2551	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, our intervention was not intended to disrupt the agenda of this session. You can do anything. It is also possible to make this Parliament a circus that once again, after the establishment of the agenda, the agenda is established at each point and we are against it. We only asked that according to the events of the last session, when the Law on Holidays, which the Club of Representatives of the SDP, through its MPs, was directed to the procedure more than four months ago, here, beyond the parliamentary procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure and by the parliamentary procedure provided for in the special conclusion of this assembly, was left out of the proposed agenda. Accordingly, the Constitutional Commission was in session. In that context, we expected the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission to report this high house, because it was one of the conclusions at that time, about the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission. It is not our intention, we have received all the political satisfaction for this law through the adoption of the content of this law by the Presidency. We're ready for that law to go to the next session. We have no intention of disrupting this agenda here, as far as we clearly have agenda points that, despite the fact that the material has not arrived, require discussion of this house, because we have a complete obstruction of certain structures that are responsible for this Parliament reporting, that is to say, certain proposals of certain acts. In this context, the Constitutional Commission was sitting, and I ask the President of the Constitutional Commission to draw a conclusion in which it is obvious that, following the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure and a special conclusion, the College has an obligation to include all the points of the agenda. That is also what I do not want Parliament's policy to be repeated here, which is recognizable from those times when Parliament has tried forever to stall. Mr. Chairman, it's not an addition to the agenda, it's just information.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2552	At what point? Sir, I ask you to spare me your observations and as an MP I ask you both as an MP and chairman to spare your observations of any kind that do not conform to the agenda. Say, at which point of the agenda you want to do it, it will be done. Tell me, would you like a special point? Because the conclusion of this house, which you are constantly calling upon, is to continue with the next point. The next item is the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum. If you have a suggestion, at which point, say, I'll do it. If you have a special point, let me know, and I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2553	Mr. Chairman, at the same point that you are already discussing for 10 minutes and commenting on every MP's statement. At this point under which your discussion will enter the stenogram. At that point. What is the name of this point that you just asked for a statement of MPs and took at least 10 minutes away from this House? 62
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2554	What statement?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2555	Now, at what point are you discussing?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2556	Sir, you're challenging me to lead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2557	Same point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2558	Your debate is closed, thank you very much. I propose that we go according to the agenda, which is the proposal for a law on the immigration and asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it is the conclusion that we continue to work. I'm opening a hearing on the fourth item of the agenda. Here you go, Ambassador Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2559	On behalf of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, I will submit a report on the attempt to hold a few Commission meetings to report to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives on the proposed Law. Finally, after three appointments, the Commission was held this morning with the necessary quorum, which discussed the proposal for a law on emigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Following the debate, the Commission in principle supported the need for the adoption of the Law on Immigration and Asylum, however, the Commission did not have a unique position on the proposed amendments either on the draft law or on any objections to the members of the bill. Before we begin to discuss this agenda point, I asked the Commission to come to the conclusion on a terrorist act that took place in Srebrenica on the occasion of an attempt to assassinate the secretary of the Srebrenica Municipality of Srebrenica's Secretary Munib Hasanović in the Srebrenica Municipality building. In this regard, the Commission, or individual members of the Commission, did not want to make their proposal in the light of the conclusion that the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, would reach a conclusion on the condemnation of the terrorist act in Srebrenica. So I ask you to make such a conclusion at this session that we condemn all acts of terrorism in Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially the one that happened in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2560	Thank you very much. Who's still answering for the discussion? Please, Mr. Malkić, give the sekretarijat a proposal for your conclusion. In the end, yes. Who's answering for the discussion? 63 The Messenger, Mrs Jovanović, and Ambassador Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2561	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I would like to make amendments to the proposed Law. The first amendment: Article 1 proposes to change the position of two, so that it reads: "All persons who are not citizens of any entity, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the meaning of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are considered foreigners." The second amendment: Article 21, item 4, the fifth order, puts the point behind the word "decision" and deletes the words "and the copy is simultaneously sent by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina". The position of five of the same members should be deleted. Third Amendment: In Article 36, instead of saying: “The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the words “The Competent Authorities of Entity” should be inserted. Amendment four: In Article 48, Article 2 in the third row, instead of saying "the appeal advice set out in Article 53", the words "the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina" should be inserted. And the fifth amendment: Article 53 is to be deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2562	Thank you very much. poslanik Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2563	Dear colleagues, chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, members of the BiH Council of Ministers and other guests. I, before, too, would present the amendments to the proposed legal text, in fact, I, first of all, responded to the replica or, more specifically, to the clarification of Mr Malkić's presentation as President of the Commission whose member I am. Namely, I was one of those who did not support his proposal for the unconditional condemnation of the event in Srebrenica, but I suggested, therefore, that it was not a disputed verdict, however, I suggested that the Commission wait for an official report by the competent authorities – hence, the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska, and after that, immediately, once the report was received, the next session of the Commission would take a position on the matter. For the simple reason I was present at the Republika Srpska Assembly on Sunday. I had the opportunity to listen to the brief information of the Minister of the Interior, as soon as possible, that this event would provide a detailed analysis. So, when he gets it, he'll take it public. The best intention was, it was not the intention to obstruct itself in terms of condemnation of the act, but the intention was to have the relevant facts on which, as the Commission, we would give our position, i.e. the proposal to this Representative Council. Now with regard to the objections to the draft law on emigration and asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will be free here to point out: Article 3 should add a new position of two, which reads: "Operations regarding the entry, stay and movement of foreigners in Bosnia and Herzegovina are carried out by competent authorities in entities, if this law is not otherwise defined". Article 2 or 2 respectively. In Article 7, item three, a new position is added: "On the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, without passports and visas, and on the basis of a personal map, foreigners from neighbouring countries with whom Bosnia and Herzegovina entities have established special parallel relations". 64 Point 3. In Article 32, instead of saying: “The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the words “the Authority of Entity” should be inserted. Point 4. In Article 38, in point 2, instead of saying: “The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the words “the Authority of Entity” should be inserted. Point 5. In Article 52, paragraph l, the words ‘the Board of Ministers’ should be deleted and the words ‘the Council of Ministers’ should be inserted instead. In the position of the 2nd member, in the second verse, instead of saying, “the Board of Ministers”, the words “the Council of Ministers” should be put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2564	Thank you very much. Mrs. Havel. I'm asking you to turn it in there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2565	Appreciation, since I am a member of the Commission for Human Rights and given what Mr Malkić said, I feel the need to give an explanation. I support the absolute condemnation of every terrorist act, including that of which it was. However, I pointed out on the Commission, and this should obviously happen again here, that it did not happen the first time, I will repeat that nine Hrvat died mortally in central Bosnia, and I will repeat that I have asked a delegate question here what is the investigation into the murder of Mr Joza Leutar, of which, here, more than half a year has passed, and we have no results. I never got an answer to that delegate question. So, on this case, I think we should call in for everything, not just this. And this wasn't supposed to be a reason to ask this parliament to plead guilty to all acts of terrorism. I support the conviction of all terrorist acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2566	Thank you very much. poslanik Tokić, then Ambassador to Mrs Balta. I ask you to surrender that conclusion of yours there, to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2567	Mr. Chairman, I cannot understand that there is now an opportunity to discuss all these issues under this agenda point, but since you have already allowed that possibility, I think that condemnation of all terrorist acts in a declarative way, in the areas where political parties manage, and these are the same political parties that have given their representatives to chair this high house, at least means nothing more than one conduct that has a double archeon. One is a declaration, and the other is... in action. So I would ask the representatives of the majority political parties here, who have power both in Srebrenica and in central Bosnia, and in the Drvar, and in Capljina, and in Stoc, and in many places where it will happen in the coming period, not to condemn, but to take concrete measures, because it is in your power. You don't need a declaration. And now to return to the agenda, noting, of course, that you have double arches when it is possible to present different political views beyond the agenda, to support, on behalf of the SDP, this proposal of the Law on Immigration and Asylum, believing that it is high time that such a law in this original text, as the Council of Ministers of BiH has established, was adopted, because it is one of those conditions that are necessary for the entry into the Council of Europe. And with the degree we are approaching entry into the Council of 65 Europe, if we are to trouble this law in the way that the original jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina is problemed again in this area, the Constitution very clearly demarcated, we will not be able to provide anything but wartime promises to the people that we will be in the Council of Europe. In 1994, or you going to Strasbourg, we promised six months in the Council of Europe. From 1994 to this day, every 6 months, is that right, Mr. Bičakčić, to the people's admission to the Council of Europe. I call, therefore, on this High House to adopt the original text, as established by the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2568	Thank you. Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2569	The Honorable Presidency, gentlemen Members of Parliament, honored guests, I am not surprised at the start and start of this House because it has become a habit of usually talking a lot and bringing something new in every time we have to work on the agreed agenda. The politicalization and condemnation of any terrorist attack is not at all controversial. Whether this case will open a wide debate on developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory where there are many attacked, many killed and many injured, we will see, probably, the chairman, to agree on a plea. Because, politicize, we should have done it long ago if we were to do it all the same in Bosnia and Herzegovina territory and create conditions for such wide debates on the agenda that we agreed to do the right thing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2570	The asylum law is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2571	Please, let me finish. That's right. I'm asking you not to do any politicizing. We will condemn it as it was done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2572	Thank you. Who's still reporting for a discussion on the agenda, please? Mr Malkić said nicely that he would propose his request later. And don't, please, I didn't deliberately challenge his discussion because he said he'd propose later. But a man has the right to propose. I'm not gonna slow him down. We're all going to make a statement about the proposals. Therefore, he did not start the debate on the subject. Let's go. I don't think I've got a single conclusion on that, because I didn't get one. We're talking about the Asylum and Immigration Act. Is there anyone else who wants to report for the discussion? There isn't. I would like to ask the Proposer to make a statement on the amendments they have heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2573	We didn't get that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2574	I ask the service to immediately deliver this to you so that we can discuss each individual amendment to know whether it has been accepted or not. 66
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2575	We're looking for a 15-minute break so we can make a statement about the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2576	Okay, I'm giving a 15-minute break for the BiH Council of Ministers to plead. Let's get back to work. We have a quorum in the O.R. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to come out with an attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2577	We have considered all the proposed amendments and have largely reached agreement except with the two amendments, so that we do not accept them, so no agreement has been reached in the BiH Council of Ministers. One part considers it necessary to accept amendment number 2 of MPs Vita Rakić and amendment number I of MP Jovanović. Therefore, Amendment number 2 of Mr Rakić reads that behind Article 7, Article 3 adds a new position 3, which reads: "that on BiH territory, without passports and visas, and on the basis of a personal map, foreigners from neighbouring countries with whom BiH entities have established special parallel relations", and the amendment by Mrs Jovanović, in article l, to add that "all persons who are not citizens of any entity, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, within the meaning of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, are considered foreigners". The BiH Council of Ministers could not reach agreement. One part was for these two amendments to be adopted, the other part was for them not to be adopted. We decided to leave it to the Assembly to assess, evaluate and make a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2578	Thank you very much. I think, Mr. Ašanin, it was an interpretation because these are the amendments of Vita Rakić, which was taken by MP Deretić as amendments. Yes, yes, that's fine, they were taken by MP Deretić. Okay. Mr Silajdžić, co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2579	Gentlemen, I propose that this law be passed. I'd like to inform you that we've been working on this for over a year and a half. That, in the drafting of this proposal, the OHR worked together with us, the Council of Europe, UNHCR and the Venice Commission. During the work, we all had to compromise in some ways, to forget, or to compromise, or to compromise. We've come to this very difficult proposal. I repeat, we worked a year and a half with all the institutions that could help us. So, Venice Commission, Council of Europe, OHR and UNHCR. We were considering these amendments, but here, as the fellow minister said, we couldn't agree on it. So, I would also ask my colleagues in the BiH Council of Ministers and fellow Members to return to what we have already agreed and agreed, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is this basic text. Opening up any problem here can lead us to the fact that we don't adopt this law that is very important to all of us. Thank you very much. 67
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2580	Thank you very much. I don't understand if you've come forward with the amendment of Ambassador Malkić? He's not accepted. All right, I know. Everyone else has been denied. Here you go, MP, come out here. We're not going to hear you, there's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2581	Indeed, I was impressed by this gymnastics from the views of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. And what I would like to ask here of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think it is very important, if now the Council of Ministers, in all of these agreements, has agreed on its proposal that has been referred to the procedure. Whether he's behind his own proposal, because obviously here we're looking at an extension of some ongoing show, some of them were watching last night, but it's been going on for four, five years. So I'm interested in that view, given that I don't understand, between these agreed and uncoordinated views, is the BiH Council of Ministers behind its own proposal? Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2582	Thank you. Co-chairman, Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2583	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the Council of Ministers of BiH has, as you have heard, approved this law for a long time. It was not easy to come up with a proposal that was otherwise compromised. This proposal you received was agreed on by the BiH Council of Ministers and together with the OHR, and for a long time it was because we could not agree. Not all attitudes could be accepted. As such a compromise, it was offered to the BiH Parliament. However, the BiH Council of Ministers, of course, is behind this proposal that was submitted to you. However, MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, of course, have the right when they receive a draft or a bill to deliver their opinions and to express it as some MPs have used their right to propose. Approximately, these proposals that were heard today, one part of these proposals had been present earlier in the BiH Council of Ministers, and we could not reach a common compromise to install it in the bill. It seems to me today that some of these proposals have been new, which has not been in circulation in the discussions during the debate on this draft of the law. And it is normal for MPs to have the right and to improve the text of the law, if, of course, the majority of them are in Parliament. And it's in some normal atmosphere and it's perfectly normal to do that. Only then does Parliament live and work under normal conditions. So, the BiH Council of Ministers, when such amendments occur, should be made known, to take a position on whether some of the amendments improve the text of the Law and whether the BiH Council of Ministers can reach agreement to accept certain amendments. We appreciate that these two amendments that have been tabled, I think, have places to be included in the law. Unfortunately, we have not reached agreement in the BiH Council of Ministers and as soon as there is no agreement (you know the principle of work and the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament) in which case the proposal cannot be accepted. Just so you know, in the BiH Council of Ministers, these two amendments have been discussed and discussed. One piece was accepted, the other was not accepted, and since it was not unanimously accepted, in that case, the amendment is deemed not to have even been accepted. But, of course, it is your business to convince each other of the validity or invalidity of a certain amendment through the debate so that the text of the Law can be improved. We don't have any ambition, of course, that what we suggest is ideal, if it were 68, then you wouldn't even be discussing those laws. Then, according to automation, it would be brought by the Council of Ministers of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers is just one link to it, and you are at the end of which you judge, bring, reject or seek some compromise solutions. So this is the material that you've been offered, and you're going to decide about it based on what you suggested today. I wish we had reached an agreement. We'd probably make your job easier, too, to make it easier for this law to be passed. But here, it's up to you to continue to debate these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2584	Thank you very much. Is the MP satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2585	If the gentleman is satisfied with his own answer, so am I.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2586	Okay. So you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2587	I'm not sure the gentleman is pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2588	He told me now he did, so so did you. Then everything's fine. poslanik Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2589	Gentlemen, esteemed guests, Behold, unfortunately, after this brief debate, I have the impression that BiH's Law on Immigration and Asylum will share fate, unfortunately, all those legal projects in which neither the Council of Ministers nor MPs are, I would say, realistic and aware of the situation and the manner of the authorities or authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. By who knows which way, for our sake, perhaps, inaccessibility, once again, we split up by the same principle, which is not illogical. I, above all, would be interested in the BiH Council of Ministers saying why it refuses the amendments. Are they not processing the text of the law? Are the amendments against the constitution or have we again, unfortunately, come to a situation where we have two against one? And everywhere we come into such a situation where two nations are integrated against the solution offered by a third nation, they will fail a legal project and will be able to impose a solution on the international community. But I am asking you to open the debate on even the most complex problems in order to come up with a quality legal solution. Bosnia and Herzegovina should not hide why the BiH Council of Ministers cannot be agreed on and why, unfortunately, we are not ready to discuss the essence of the legislative projects here. I am interested in the BiH Council of Ministers, from amendments to amendments, saying: it is not in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, no one will push the amendment against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not in line with these legal projects, it's not in line with those legal projects. This cannot be the approach to MPs in the Representative Council: you know, we did not agree, because we voted, rather, on a national basis. And so please, let us make sure that we open the debate in all the amendments -- whether these amendments are on the line to make a good law or they're on the line, of course, that the law doesn't pass what would make it difficult for Bosnia and Herzegovina. But you don't have to hide 69 skillfully or try to hide it. Whenever we have a situation that integrates, by national principle, two against the third, no matter what nation they belong to, that law will not be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's just, I'm going to repeat again, the decentralised Bosnia and Herzegovina has a future like that, and let me say, a bright future. All that resembles unitaryisation is unnecessary punishment at this point, primarily in economic terms, for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2590	Thank you. Replica - Ambassador Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2591	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I would indeed ask the gentlemen who come out here to speak their views, not to enter the quality of their views, not to be identified with the attitudes of the people. This concept, as these peoples are presented through individual leaders, is a concept that has led to this and, allow on behalf of the SDP which here, in its ranks, within the Club of Representatives, has members of all three peoples, to exclude such discussions so much before this is the PSBiH House of Representatives and is spoken on behalf of the parties who have delegated themselves, or who have provided lists of candidates. What the people think, that's about what the trade unions of both the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH are announcing, so it doesn't have much to do with this gymnastics about whether the BiH Council of Ministers has agreed on its own position, and in particular it has nothing to do with what Mr Špirić was saying - two against one, etc. Here you can talk about one against three, and this is the SDP against these three exclusive concepts that, behold, dominate all this time by bringing the peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina to chaos. Isn't that right, sir? You're missing a third.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2592	He'll come, don't worry about him. Gentlemen, I'll take the opportunity. Given that I am one of those and now speak as an MP, who swore to respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and in the sense that we are all looking for everyone and swearing on the legality of this work, I am, not concerned but amazed, and I want to know who these people are, as they are called, what their name is, is in the Council of Ministers of BiH, and they will not accept the amendment of Mr Jovanović, if it is known that in point 7 of the first position of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, under a) it is said: "All citizens of any entity are therefore citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina." [[I'll give you, MP, replica]] So, in order to gain Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship, it's moving from entity to state, and that's exactly what the amendment is saying, and someone's not going to. Is that the way, gentlemen, to the elimination of entities or something? Please answer my name and last name as an MP, and not as the chairman, who derogates the Constitution and sits in the Council of Ministers of BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2593	I'm sorry, the replica only makes sense if the debaters show up at the pay phone in a row. I have no intention of resenting the chairman, but I want to say something to my colleague, Tokić. I also spoke last time, unfortunately, when Tokić and SDP left the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Council. I said then, I know a more multiethnic party whose members were both Mr. Tokić and I, and were its committees, which, unfortunately, in 1992, shared arms with its 70 Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat, and we went through the way we did. I know that this story is in the eyes, especially of the international public, and also of a part of the troubled people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is well directed to party officials. Of this Tokic story, unfortunately, the people do not live better. I am for each of us to cultivate a style within ourselves - that we do not hate the Srbin, the Bošnjak, the Hrvat, and not physically align them with each other. And around me, Mr. Tokić, there are people of different nations and ethnicities sitting around me, and they absolutely don't bother me. But what is the guarantee that this multiethnicity, which you are offering in this way, is making a production out of legal projects, feeding the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I'd like to know that. And I think that the moment that what goes towards the party comes to the people, then I will believe in that social democratic concept of yours. When you share what you get from the international community a little bit with the citizens, and they feel that this social democracy is benefiting, then it might look like a story for the people. And this is the story of a promotion that, unfortunately, every 20 or 30 years, is due to immatureness, and a little bit of the unhappiness of the space and concept offered, let's pay this or that. But I'm asking you to talk about a legal project, not to create a event, but to analyze a legal project. I am interested in whether the amendments are in accordance with the law and the Constitution and why does the BiH Council of Ministers not accept them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2594	Thank you very much. I apologize to the co-chair, MP Muminagić is before. It's the lady, you won't be angry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2595	For the second time, I'm listening to Mr. Špirić. He mentions the party we were all in together. We were all in this party together, and I have to say, I've been a member of that party for 40 years. Nobody gave me a gun. To my brothers, who are members of that party, no one has shared a weapon. So let's not talk about the party handing out guns. Last time, there was a speech about divisions. That the party split up. The party didn't split, some people left the party. And we talked and talked to those who stayed, and the rest are multinational.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2596	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2597	As long as we don't move on to the debate on the essence, there's probably gonna be a controversy that won't help us discuss the law that's on the agenda. I, as far as I know, the Social Democracy Party has tried to take down the burden of some of the party's responsibilities and I'm not going into it at all. Neither did I, Mrs. Suad, share arms, but when known, at the time of the single-party system, when 90% of the people for this or that reason were in that party, there were no other people living here but all of us together. No third, no fourth, no five. That concept that was cherished here resulted in what it resulted in. And in order not to again, for this or that, I ask you to talk about the essence of the ideological concepts in which individuals live. If the citizens in the elections declare themselves to the Social Democrats, please be nice, they will be the authorities and will work as long as the people wish. But I'm not in the mood to make a concert out of this congregation. Thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2598	Tokić, replica. I beg you, can we bring these replicas to an end? That's what we're going to do in particular -- just replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2599	I really don't know what Mr. Špirić is talking about. I only asked that, according to parliamentaryism, democratic tradition, not repeat unfounded, I would say, completely irrelevant formulations such as “in the name of the Serbian people” or on behalf of any other people. It's obviously taken over from that party he keeps mentioning, I don't know if because of the nostalgia, he just changed the formulation. He then spoke “in the name of the working class”, and now “in the name of the people”. You speak on behalf of the Radical Party, on behalf of the SDS, and it is known that these parties have been legitimated, including all others who make up the parliamentary majority here since 1992 when that weapon was. If you want to talk about it, I don't want to. I think The Hag should prosecute this case and carry out its responsibility, and we should politically turn to the future. And the future is multiethnic. Let us represent that thesis. If you want to publicly promote unity here as a principle, I don't mind, but you have no right to speak for the people - none.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2600	Thank you. Co-chaired by Silajdžić, then an MP, Mrs Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2601	So the work on making this bill was, of course, public. Our institutions, the institutions in charge of Europe and the world participated in the work. Thus, this work and the result of this work could be influenced, practically, by any political factor. I went out to say why you shouldn't go to amendments and why you should adopt this law. Because, say, I have at least ten objections to this bill. However, we all made concessions together and came to a solution assuming that at the BiH Council of Ministers the will of at least one part of voters from all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina was presented. We couldn't have done better. The international community has helped us to bring this proposal as much as possible into line with the standards that are in Europe today, because that is our goal to all of us. So, if we open all these questions, if we open a discussion on two amendments, we can open another ten amendments, but our goal is to adopt the Law because we've been working on it for a year and a half. So don't lose sight of it. We've been working on it for a long time. This is the result we came up with. And I would ask the MPs to keep this in mind and, if possible, to finish today this very long-term job that has spent a lot of time, energy and where concessions have been made from all sides to get to the end of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2602	Thank you. Mrs. Jovanović. While the lady comes out, let me just say it. I did not get an answer to my question, although the amendment was second, which was also not adopted, clearly defined by the Constitution. But not giving an answer, and that's the answer. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2603	Members of the Parliament, Respecting the one-and-a-half-year work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the advice of all, externally and internally, allow the Members to receive a little more than ten minutes as much as you have discussed the proposed amendments. I'm not giving up, because I think I can only contribute to the quality of the law. Your exposure - not to open this or that question, to me is not a valid enough reason to refuse all and one amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2604	Please. Is there anyone else who wants to report for the discussion? Minister Prlić, so Deputy Minister Božanić wants to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2605	I think a debate is being opened on a single law, a number of issues are being raised that are both political and party relations. We're going back deep, which isn't necessary. Let's stick to what it says in the Rules of Procedure. The amendments have been made. The BiH Council of Ministers has declared these amendments and I would ask the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to declare the amendments submitted. It does not mean that the BiH Council of Ministers has not accepted some amendment, that it will not be accepted, possibly, by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or not. What's to be wrong now if any of the attitudes that someone has expressed are not accepted. That is why there is a Parliament to declare this. And I would ask that this debate, if possible, be brought to an end and that a statement be made on amendments and a statement by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Every other debate leads us only to a dialogue that will not produce any result.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2606	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister Božanić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2607	Dear gentlemen, I would like to emphasise only one fact in the statements of the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers. It is true that we have worked for a year and a half and it is true that we have sought the help of the international community. But the international community and we are living people, and it is very simple to answer some of your questions. We, on point I, point 2, the first and second amendments that we now mention, absolutely didn't discuss. That's the bottom line and the biggest problem here. It's true that we from a series of proposals, during our work in a year and a half, eliminated what you got on paper. But we didn't talk about this. I personally think these amendments I and 2 are very practical and very feasible. The problem is that we have a different approach to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that part of the Constitution regarding special, parallel relations with neighbouring countries. I must also answer that it was not a matter of overvote one to two or two to one for the simple reason that he concerned at least three peoples in this law. It concerns special relations, parallel relations the Federation of BiH has with Croatia and Republika Srpska towards Yugoslavia. So, they benefit from that, both Bošnjak and Hrvat in the Federation of BiH and Srbin from Republika Srpska. Therefore, it is my personal opinion and personal opinion. And as you know, the Council of Ministers of BiH could not reach a consensus on this and, in line with the previous 73 colleagues, Prlić, I agree that you move to a vote and that you take a stand on what we didn't have a common opinion on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2608	Thank you very much, when I asked the question, Mr. Božanić, I just wanted to know who it is that doesn't respect Article I of the Constitution and Article 3. A constitution where both amendments were regulated, on which you could not achieve consent. They're both based on it. That's all I wanted. I won't comment anymore, because there's no need. I'm asking the other promoter, does he give up his amendments? Yeah. You don't have to go out. No, I don't. Malkić man, are you giving up? You're giving up. Thank you very much. We're going to vote on amendments from Members of Parliament who have not given up. So we vote on Mrs Jovanović's amendments. Amendment number I. You've got it all. Is it readable? I don't think you should, you have it in front of you. Did you manage to find that? Or we already know in advance who's going to vote. Would I please read the amendments? You don't have to. Who is in favour of accepting Mrs Jovanović's amendment - the amendment first? Who's in? Thirteen votes in favor. Against? Four against. How many in the O.R.? Thirty-two. So 4 versus, 13 for, that's 17 and 15 abstentions. Does anyone have any objections to the voting process? There isn't. Thank you very much. The amendment was not accepted. Amendment number two, Mrs. Jovanović. Who's in? I asked if you should read? I asked, I can't change anything about it right now. Nine votes in. Who's against it? Five against it. 18 abstentions. Please, there's no need for entities, because it's quite clear that it didn't pass. Amendment three, Mrs. Jovanović. Who's in? Nine votes in. Against? Six against it. Keeping 17. There's no need for entities to vote, and this amendment hasn't passed either. Amendment number four, Mrs. Jovanović. Who's in? Eleven for it. Against? Four against. 74 abstentions 17. There is no need to vote in the second round, and this amendment is not accepted either. Amendment number five. Who's in? Ten for it. Against? One against. 21 abstentions. Neither has this amendment and there is no need to vote in the second round. That's how we exhausted Mrs. Jovanović's amendments. Mr. Deretić. First amendment. Who's in? Fourteen for it. Against? Four against. 14 abstentions. He didn't pass, there's no need to vote in the second round. Amendment number two. Who's in? Thirteen for? Who's against it? Five against. 13 abstentions, for now one has left. So the quorum is not 32 but 31. So you know why there are 13 abstentions. Any objections to the voting process? There isn't. Amendment number three, Deretić. Who's in? The quorum is still 31. Nine for it. Who's against it? Six against. 16 abstentions. There's no need. So 9 for, 6 against, 16 abstentions. There's no need to vote in the second round. Amendment number four, Deretić. Who's in? Votes 31 in total. Nine for it. Who's against it? Six is against it. 16 abstentions. And here's 9 in, 6 against, 16 abstentions. Total 31. And this amendment has not been accepted and there is no need to vote in the second round. Amendment number five, Deretić. Who's in? 75 Ten for. Who's against it? Five against. 16 abstentions. This amendment hasn't passed either, there's no need to vote in the second round. That's what we voted on on all the amendments. And now we're voting on the bill. The quorum now consists of 32 MPs. We vote on the integrated text of the law proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thirty-two MPs present in the O.R. vote. Please, who's in? Eighteen for it. Who's against it? Thirteen against it. 1 abstention. We vote on entities because they got a half majority in the first round. From the Federation of BiH – who's in favour? Sixteen for it. It has an entity majority from the Federation of BiH. Republika Srpska - who's in? There is no necessary majority from Republika Srpska. The law's going to agree. So, the law didn't get the necessary entity majority in the second round, it's going to be agreeable, according to the Rules of Procedure. I should now take a break from an hour to ambush the College, as a commission, and try to find a solution. That's right, business. And I'm taking a break up to three hours and 20 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2609	Madam Chairman, I simply cannot be indifferent, unfortunately, given the vote on this Law on Immigration and Asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is indeed one of the laws that we must comply with, that is, to be adopted, in order to enter the Council of Europe. Unfortunately, this is only a formal demonstration that Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska were against the law. However, the essential situation, unfortunately, and one part of the MPs, I must be honest, i.e., colleagues, I think, was that the amendments given by the MPs from Republika Srpska were adopted. All and one of these amendments has in no way derivated the existing draft of this law. However, we are deeply convinced that the adoption of these amendments would improve the quality of this legislation. However, it is certainly obvious now who it is that obstructs the non-legislative rule. Because if someone wants and makes it impossible for them to establish themselves, that I, as a Srbin from Republika Srpska, can cross into Serbia, or Serbia, that my closest kin can cross without passports, then it is absolutely clear what is wanted here, who plays the game and therefore I pray, because I really expected these amendments to be 76 adopted and that we will adopt this draft law without any objections. Unfortunately, it has proved, in fact, only what we all want well for the great majority of Members here to only verbally want to join the Council of Europe, and when they want to give a little effort, to make a little effort and compromise to actually achieve it, then this is being challenged in an eclastane and appropriate way, which we have now seen here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2610	Please, a moment, I haven't said anything yet. There's one problem. I'd like the sekretarijat, please, sit down. Since they appear here, really, different versions, I would ask that we be provided with a certified version of the Rules of Procedure. I've been distracted by a fellow Genjac not to write it here. In this version, really, it doesn't say we have an hour first, then three days. There's no in this version, and it's not even signed. Is there a signed version? There is. Is she having this one for an hour? There isn't. In that case, I can't take a break, I'm pulling back. Unless it's in the signed version. Here, there's a Genjac signed version. Let's just take another look. It doesn't say. Okay, it doesn't even say in the signed version. No breaks. We're taking an hour off. We're continuing our work. I suggest, then, we go to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad. 5. The draft law establishing a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking calls on the President of the Constitutional Commission to report both together today. So that we may please the Messenger Tokić, that he may not be angry. Is there a Vice President of the Commission? Who is it? Secretariat, who's the Vice President of the Commission? What can we do? All we can do is take that dot off, so we can put it off. We're not gonna take it off, we're gonna move on, and as soon as it gets in... You've both received reports written. So he doesn't have to be a reporter. Why would I have to? He's got the same name. Please, I'll convince you for a moment. As regards the Commission's report on constitutional issues on the implementation of the voting procedure on the draft law on the establishment of a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and illicit drug trafficking, the Commission took the view this way: that the chairman did not then establish a quorum at the start of the vote and it is believed that the quorum seemed to be 29 MPs, which means that the proposal was received by the majority and should have been followed up by an entity vote. Since no vote has been made on the entities, I suggest we now hold a vote and supplement that, and see what fate will be further. Does the Proposer have any objections, and does he want to speak? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2611	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to remind myself of the law since we had been discussing this law a long time ago, and I'm afraid if we went straight to the polls, we wouldn't at least remind ourselves of what it was -- many would be led astray. It is, therefore, a law whose chairman has read the title, and this law is, in effect, trying to regulate and establish a common police force to combat terrorism and inter-entity crime, as it stands. The forces would operate on the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina and would, by their composition, be multiethnic. Their basic 77 activities are, therefore, both crime and crime control and illicit drug trafficking. It is not particularly necessary to clarify how justified it is for organisational strengthening in all segments of the state and entity, but also at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to contain these phenomena. We, and in recent times in the press, are reading that the cross-border criminal network is both inter-entity and inter-state, we read very often about successful, and we believe that not all successful actions are in dealing with drug trafficking, etc. Therefore, we appreciate that it is necessary to adopt, once again, this law, whereby the special role of these forces would clearly be in collaboration with Interpol. I think these brief arguments are enough just to remind ourselves of the essence of the law and to in some ways refresh our memories in terms of the need to discuss the adoption of this law. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2612	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to say anything? There isn't. I'm putting this bill on the second round of voting. The vote is on entities. So, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour of this bill? Nine for it. He doesn't have the necessary majority. From Republika Srpska. Who's in? Three for it. He doesn't have the necessary majority. So it takes at least 10 and at least 5. This bill is going to be agreed upon. This is all the first round, and it goes to the second round of voting where it takes two-thirds to be against it. So we heard. Okay. Please, there's no need, within three days, we've got the final version. We took a break for lunch because there was an observation here to get authentic with the signatures of that Rules of Procedure, and we got it and it doesn't say what we can do. It doesn't say. There are various versions. Probably languages aren't compatible with that. Please, this one's going on a three-day adjustment. This is an entity vote. It's all right. I was thinking, at this point, that I would also read to you the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the procedure of voting for the establishment of the agenda at the 11th session. However, the chairman made it impossible for me because it says here: “For the rapporteur of the Commission, at the House of Representatives, Rasim Kadić was appointed”. I don't have a right to do that, and I thought I'd really do it. Unfortunately, I have no right to do that. It would be a big offense and I can't have Tokić putting it on my soul. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. The next item is Ad. Six. A report and an analysis of the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Please, as far as this agenda is concerned, we have received a letter signed by the co-chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Svetozar Mihajlović. Is the letter divided? It's not. You can read it. We, according to the Conclusion at the last 78 session (seems to be a little nervous or too rested), worked to deliver the materials for the points here by letter and we received a reply from the Council of Ministers of BiH. It says: “In connection with Act No 0l-02-170/99 of 20 September1999, we would like to inform you of the following: The activities of the Council of Ministers of BiH are under way to draw up the report on work for January-September 1999. At his session yesterday, the Council considered the implementation of this obligation so far and concluded that at its tomorrow session, October 14th, it would adopt this report and deliver it to the House of Representatives. Secondly, as regards the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the Law on the Council of Ministers' Council, a debate is under way before the Council on the draft law text, amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Following the establishment of the Draft, it will be delivered in good time to the House of Representatives in further procedure. Co-chairman Svetozar Mihajlović". I'm putting an end to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2613	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, I would like to highlight the commitment that there are conditions to analyse the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the Council of Ministers today. The fact of today's behaviour and actions of the BiH Council of Ministers, which has not delivered its agreed report, and also steps forward in the media, including last night's on TV BiH, gives quite enough ground to initiate the process of recalling the existing BiH Council of Ministers' composition. Agonia that this Council of Ministers of BiH through the transition process, which has been completely halted, there are neither adequate legal regulations. We still, as a BiH state, do not have adequate legislation in any of the essential areas, not even the minimum regulation, as a condition for admission, the Council of Europe, the rapporteurs for entry into the Council of Europe from the Parliamentary Assembly of this oldest European integration. In the process of implementing the Peace Agreement, in those areas where central institutions are responsible, including the Council of Ministers, unsatisfactory results have been achieved, particularly in the segment of implementation of returns of refugees and exiles, i.e. in the segment of the exercise of private property rights. I remind you that the return of refugees and exiles is one of the most important responsibilities under the annex of the 7th state institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As for the process of including Bosnia and Herzegovina in Euro-Atlantic integration, apart from the declarative commitment, the BiH Council of Ministers has not achieved adequate shifts, even unable to adopt its own work programme. Contrary to such work results, the BiH Council of Ministers is trying to explain that the blockades in the BiH presidency and in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly, if they are blockades, allow, gentlemen, they come from the same political forces. It is necessary to possess a high degree of naivety and to argue that Jadranko Prlić is willing to accept and agree with the Law on Immigration and Asylum, and Ana Havel will, as in the parliamentary procedure, reject colleagues from HDZ or, however, that Mr Svetozar Mihajlović will advocate one, and the representatives of Sloga in the parliamentary procedure will be against it, or as regards this segment of information we ask of the BiH Council of Ministers for the issue of passports, as is alleged, Silajdžić, Kurtović, what represents a koalicija for the full and democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina. With all this in mind, we are asking to open the debate, and on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club, we are asking to launch, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a statement by this high representative home on the impeachment of the existing composition of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, there could be an illogical relationship that the BiH Council of Ministers has towards this high House as an argument. Thank you. 79 Thank you very much. Here we also have a business intervention of a member of the College who says "Since there is no material for the agenda point, they should be removed from the debate". It's Mr. Genjac's intervention to me now. I'm sorry, Tokić, I'll give my word just to say it. I'm obliged to say everything I hear. Mirković, you'll get a chance, no problem. Just to say, does Mr. Genjac want to talk about it or give up? He wants to talk.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2615	So to establish the principle that dots can be discussed without material. That's good.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2616	So you can do that. Okay. So he gave up in fact. Špirić picked up. poslanik Špirić. All right, just so we know there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2617	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the esteemed guests, Evo, there is something that Mr Tokić and I agree on, with the fact that the SDP BiH is young and the boiling phase lasts for a few weeks, but it does not mind that I came to the idea that I proposed two sessions ago of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly, which I said I was the way the BiH Council of Ministers treats the Representative Council deserves to open the debate and that the power to at least open the debate, regardless of the fact that it is quite unserious to inform us twice that they are unable to agree or write a report on their work. Where they are fortunate that rare situations are when we seek the written address of the BiH Council of Ministers, but that each time, at every session, they inform us of the matter for which the BiH Council of Ministers is responsible. So, there are many reasons, and I don't think that they should be repeated every time -- out of the way, the conditions of life of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by the very way that the BiH Council of Ministers agrees, in principle, is, of the way it is, of issuing passports to foreign citizens that we will talk about in the next point, which is also in jurisdiction, and a number of other things. But I would try to calm down the Council of Ministers of BiH from this pay phone and tell them that they are working peacefully or that they are not working anymore, because the set of political factors elected by the BiH Council of Ministers is such that they are free to push until the next election. Should the BiH Council of Ministers, which has been elected in an unconstitutional manner, be specifically discussed? People who accept an unconstitutional choice should talk about the moral character or the ministers' moral moves, or even the co-chairs, who are both MPs and ministers. And a series of other things. That's why I think we should initiate the recall procedure. Because you see what this is about? Since the situation is the way it is, it is paid by executive authority everywhere in the world, when the situation is wrong. It is also the ideal Council of Ministers for BiH. And we need to learn that, according to the situation, executive power is variable. You see, Mr Silajdžić warned the other day that MPs should resign. That's the first time I've heard of it. You know, when the Council of Ministers of BiH doesn't work, we should all resign until New Year's Eve. Here, I agree to initiate the BiH Council of Ministers recall procedure today. Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2618	Thank you. Co-chairman, Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2619	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we understand Parliament's request that we do the report on the work, but you must bear in mind that we have almost received the report and that we have followed it immediately and you will receive a complete report for the period from 1.1 to 30.9. So, for one period that's right behind us. You will receive such written material immediately on Monday. Parliament's service will be delivered to continue with the procedure. On the basis of this report, normally, you will conduct a discussion, evaluate, individual, and the Ministry and complete Ministerial Council and place, normally, certain remarks and then adopt, reject or seek additions on the basis of this. It is now a matter of procedure in which this report will enter. We believe that such material is necessary in writing so that you can discuss it in detail. Of course, the work of the BiH Council of Ministers can be discussed as proposed by MP Tokić. The opposition is always right, and if I were Mr. Tokić's place, I would ask him to do the same thing, to make the position work better, to bring what is possible and impossible, but it's a matter of opposition. Probably when they're in position, if they're ever in position, they'll have their own opposition to force them to. It is so in the parliamentary life of every country, including these Bosnia and Herzegovina. We believe that we have given enough material to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss these things that some MP was talking about here, it seems to me that Mr Špirić is also discussing the materials that life means, about the legal projects of some who are still in the process, which have not yet been adopted or have not yet come to the agenda. There are problems with the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and large ones. These problems are not specific to the BiH Council of Ministers in relation to both councils, compared to the Presidency, etc. It's this reality that we're in. We need to be objective. We can't make up something that's beautiful right now, and our reality, the way it is, obviously it's not as beautiful as we'd like it to be. By the way, we have to do exactly as we were instructed in the Dayton Agreement, to have Bosnia and Herzegovina with two equal entities, with all the powers that entities have and with those powers that Bosnia and Herzegovina has, that is, the powers that have been passed on to Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a problem that obviously someone would want more of those powers at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina than those Bosnia and Herzegovina has. We can't talk about some of the things that we're talking about here. This life is mainly taking place in entities and entities have their full circle and legislation and everything life means and transition, and the laws on privatisation that are at work as they are, etc. At the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have something quite different, some framework laws and something that, here, is still not in line here. Of course, if this procedure is opened today, the debate, the BiH Council of Ministers, is there and hopefully will be able to answer all your questions that will, of course, be in the power of the Council of Ministers. Don't ask us for something that's in the jurisdiction of the entity government. We need to be clear here. And to be only reduced to what is in the post of the Council of Ministers, according to the Constitution and the law, is said to be part of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. You will also receive very fast material related to the amendments and additions to the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. But again here I want to say that no one was naive and that he didn't know, at the time when the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH was passed, that it was not in accordance with the Constitution. It was also a political compromise to come in general, that 81 Council of Ministers could be formed and that the Council of Ministers could work. Here, now conditions are in place to bring the law into line as the Constitution has said. I claim that you will have a lot of problems here at Parliament to coordinate it to be as it was said in the Constitution. Without a single political compromise and without any tolerance, obviously, we can't get out of this deblock. As far as we can do that, it depends not only on the BiH Council of Ministers, it depends far more on you here and, normally, on the political leaders who are mandatory and who have to make sure that we have to take one step and make a deblockation of work, not only of the BiH Council of Ministers, but of all institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2620	Thank you, co-chairman, Mr. Mihajlović. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2621	Ladies and gentlemen, I want exactly what the co-chairman of Mihajlović was talking about to say a few words. As long as the executive power in Bosnia and Herzegovina is made up in this way, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be punished. It is said here that there is power and opposition. But then it must be made clear to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina which coalition is the government and from which coalition is the BiH Council of Ministers. It must be said that the political platforms of the parties that gave their ministers are consistent. Is the same platform for the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Sloga Coalition and the CD Coalition? For example, the Socialist Party of Republika Srpska and the Party of Democratic Action. Will these two parties ever create a symbiosis leading Bosnia and Herzegovina forward? These are things that need to be discussed openly. The situation was the same as it was and the BiH Council of Ministers emerged from the parties' conglomerates as they are. Is it time to redefine it, to choose from at least the same party programs, which would be logical if the parties proposed them, or this is a conglomerate of parties leading Bosnia and Herzegovina forward. That's enough hiding. There have been discussions that place me in the ruling parties. I, I must tell you, am the opposition here and in Republika Srpska. Of course. In this coalition, in this ruling coalition, there is no SDS, no Radikal, no Radicals of Republika Srpska. He's got the Syllabic Coalition and the CD Coalition. I am telling you that these two blocks, no matter how many the international community has relied on each other, are full of conflicting interests that distance one from the other, and therefore we have the initial solutions of the BiH Council of Ministers that do not draw harmonised solutions. And, of course, that's the situation in Parliament. Will we get the strength to choose first and foremost in accordance with the Constitution, to redefine in the sense that at least the initial political options have similarities to work together. For nothing, we act before the international community that the same objectives and programmes of these parties are if they are the opposite of 180 degrees. If not, then these political options must build a platform on which they agree and push on. Or to say they are different and to be demissioned in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2622	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2623	It's an incorrect quote. We're not in the Coalition.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2624	Let's see a false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2625	I would only correct my kolega Špirić - Socialist Party MPs did not vote for all of these in the BiH Council of Ministers and we are not in the Coalition with MPs from the SDA. And on behalf of Parliamentarian Sloga, I demand a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2626	Thank you. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes. But please, at 16,20 here. Please. Please allow to work in the room. I'm asking for service. Don't sit in my room. Have them leave the O.R. Please, I'm asking the cameraman to leave the room, not to interfere with my work. Those who follow the session, they stay, of course. There are 29 MPs in the O.R. It was a question of Tokić's MPs. He asked what the parliamentary procedure was about recalling, or disbanding the BiH Council of Ministers. Business. It was initiated in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am obliged to explain to the MP that, under point g), Article 2 says: "In our jurisdiction, the disbanding of the BiH Council of Ministers is after those present vote and vote of no confidence." Did you, sir, therefore, put that conclusion to the vote? Do you want to put it on? Here, there's an MP's word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2627	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative that MP Tokić presented was an initiative by MPs in line with the Rules of Procedure. However, in order for us not to enter the procedural questions of the MPs now, I would like to say that the initiative presented by Mr Tokić is an SDP initiative. So, the groups of MPs present here and we insist, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if necessary, we will define which points, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH declares our initiative to, as you say, disband the Council of Ministers of BiH, although I think it is more appropriate to have another name. Mr Mihajlović's explanation gave additional reasons to insist on our initiative, i.e. we ask the Parliamentary Assembly to declare it. There's more reason. I would like to remind you that, when the Council of Ministers was elected, our parliamentary club was against this choice by the Council of Ministers of BiH and, among other things, because we were then stressing that it was an anti-constitutional category. The BiH Constitutional Court's decision was quite enough for the BiH Council of Ministers to withdraw with honor, not to ask for additional time. Also, I have to admit that something new happens every day, so whatever day you take for example, you can see that there are enough reasons. Yesterday, on its own, was enough for the BiH Council of Ministers to leave the place it is now sitting. When I say yesterday, I will give two examples: what we could see in the media, as statements from individual members of the BiH Council, about meeting Anan Annan in every country in the world is enough for people to leave. No, Kofi Anan, the man is gone, but they are to leave this place where they are now. It's a state-wrestling thing. The kind of behavior we could see after the meeting with the Secretary General of the United Nations. We don't need any reports, no analysis that will bring us additional light after the report and analysis, who had enough patience and nerves, could have seen 83 last night on Bosnia and Herzegovina's TV where two co-chairs and one chairing in the best possible way, and at the same time, the worst possible way to show us what this is about. All of this, in itself, each of these things, is enough to leave. We also want this Parliament to be heard about this because, not once, and it has been repeated several times yesterday and it has already become a pattern, the Council of Ministers of BiH can hear messages that both the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency should be replaced and I don't know who they all don't know. Indeed, we think that those members of Parliament should be replaced and that they should leave, which support this situation in which the country is located and such a Council of Ministers of BiH. We want to make a statement today and, in order to avoid procedural problems, we want the statement to be by name and last name. Who supports the BiH Council of Ministers' impeachment with an explanation given by Mr., fellow MP, MP Tokić, and that Parliament declares that it would be a fine little one, a thin red line pulled here and saw who is on one side of the line, and who, on the other hand, who supports what we have now, such a Council of Ministers of BiH, and who does not support it. Today's session agenda is filled with points where everyone, in particular, each other, to be more precise, would be sufficient reason in every country in the world for this kind of initiative. Today, in any case, for the SDP, after the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH, this Council of Ministers of BiH, this government, call whatever you want, is the technical government. We have replaced them, called them off, not called off, today we are giving a political assessment of their work. We today, if we adopt their impeachment, I want to hope that there is enough consciousness between us to do so, although I expected that the Council of Ministers of BiH will only get enough political power to come out with this and say, "People, this can't do this anymore." In front of this Parliament, not in front of television to go out and explain from day to day that it can't do this. We want to be clear, when statements come again tomorrow in terms of -- we are all guilty, we have tried, we do not like Parliament, etc. - to know who is behind this Council of Ministers in this House. In any case, once the BiH Council of Ministers comes out with a report and analysis, we will likely have something to say on the subject. However, the SDP is all clear. No analysis and no report will give us a new light on the work of this Council of Ministers. How do we feel about the individual actions of the BiH Council of Ministers, you will be able to hear from us at the next point when we talk about the report, at the request of the MPs' Club, regarding a man who is a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and has been arrested somewhere in the world as a terrorist. You will be able to hear from us, too, how we feel about the work of the BiH Council of Ministers when we hear the response of the Central Bank of BiH, that is, when we hear the response of the Central Bank of BiH that we have nothing to ask them but to ask the National Bank. You will be able to hear from us what we think about the reasons for the BiH Council of Ministers' replacement when we talk about a report on the Stability Pact Summit for Southeast Europe -- a financial part. You'll be able to hear from us the reasons when we talk about point 10. The proposal for a programme of work of the PSBiH House of Representatives for the September-December 1999 period, underlining the month that passed behind us, and we are now adopting a work plan for last month. You will be able to hear from us, too, how we feel about the reasons for changing the BiH Council of Ministers or disbanding, as I heard today's call when we talk about a report by BiH parliamentary delegations in European and other international bodies. You will be able to hear from us about the reasons for the shift and the disbandment and recall when it comes to the 12th point - Realising the conclusions of the Resolution of the European Integration Pact for Southeast Europe, and you will be able to hear from us the reasons when it comes to point 13, and these are parliamentary questions and suggestions. And you could have, who yesterday had the accident to watch the show on TV, heard ordinary people who stop on the street and ask: what do you think they should do, people say: they should deal with what 84 lives from. Since this Council of Ministers of BiH, on this political concept of government and the relations between them, cannot deal with the issues of which they are living, we are therefore asking to underline the line here and see who is in favour of continuing, as so far, and who is in order to symbolically get to know - this is no longer possible. I thought I made it perfectly clear as far as the MPs Tokić and Bogićević and Ivo and Suada and SDP as a whole are concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2628	Thank you very much, MP. poslanik Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2629	I can't understand from the last few discussions whether the debate on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers or who is who or who isn't for what it is. I would ask that the discussions be more specific. The topic concerns, that is, this agenda item concerns an analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, and not a call of parties here in front of the public, a fright about who is for this state, who is not for this state. Some kind of red line. Please be more specific and get back to the point we're discussing. We are all Members of Parliament here, and your frustrations are the matter of your election results.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2630	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, if I understand Ambassador Lagumdžija, he's looking for an individual statement. Here, is there anyone else? I'm begging you, if anyone wants to discuss it, it's not a dispute. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. We'll move on to an individual statement. But we're pleading, and I have to do business as it says, so it says. I hate what it says, too, but that's what it says. So we're voting on the disbanding of the BiH Council of Ministers. It's a proposal to disband the BiH Council of Ministers. Mr. Tokić, Mr. Lagumdžija, asked me to do so, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Why are you challenging me, Mr. Tokić? Are you staying with your proposal or are you joining the proposal of Ambassador Lagumdzija? Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2631	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, there is not one position in Lagumdžija, not one position in Tokić. We insisted that, in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2632	Now you've mentioned the Constitution, you're just a Rules of Procedure before.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2633	I assume, Mr. Chairman, that the Rules of Procedure are not opposed to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2634	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2635	But as far as we're concerned, we're the only ones with a pair of ears this "decommissioning" since they're too loose and like this. But still. Disband, recall, mistrust in accordance with the 85 Rules of Procedure, change in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - point which you have stated. We ask that every MP in this Parliament, including members of the BiH Council of Ministers who are also MPs, be individually declared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2636	Define your position. Whatever you want, define it. I wouldn't want us to have a procedural dispute here. Say, define him so I can put him to the vote. I'll dati everyone my word. Define.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2637	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2638	So the disbanding of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2639	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2640	Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2641	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we really deserve to be insulted here. We didn't insult anyone. You're trying to do something here that isn't, by the way, in the Rules of Procedure. You jumped out of the agenda. The agenda point, you know what it's like and how it's formulated. Furthermore, we really have the right to submit the report, and I think it is only then that we should make a decision when we file a report and decide what we did and how we did. And I'd really like to ask - there's no reason for anyone to insult us. And that, please, come on, take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2642	Thank you very much. I just wish there weren't any misunderstandings, and I agree with Minister Ašanin, that we don't need to be offended and that it's not at the level... But, Mr. Minister, any MP in the course of the session can propose a supplement and this is the supplement I can accept, I can't, but I have to go to the Rules of Procedure and I want to read it right now. And I have to put it the way they're looking. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? If not, how much do you want to take a break? Break 10 minutes. At five to five, we move on. Here, the vice president, Mr. Genjac, wants to speak. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2643	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues, 86 We held a meeting of the Coalition Club for the Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina on this break. I present the position of the Members' Club on the general atmosphere, on the point on the agenda and on our position on the proposal. Of course, the coalition's MPs for full and democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina are not satisfied with the work and results of the BiH Council of Ministers. If it had been an actual intention to contribute to the quality of the BiH Council of Ministers' work, it would have been the first to wait, indeed, for a full report by the BiH Council of Ministers to be discussed in a way that respects simple facts. And these facts suggest that the BiH Council of Ministers makes up a number of people who have worked hard, or have not worked hard to get Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions and Bosnia and Herzegovina's laws. Some have tried to keep Bosnia and Herzegovina empty with both institutions and laws. We are very dissatisfied with the impact of some ministers and some members, but we are also very pleased with the involvement of other members of the BiH Council of Ministers who have also had a lot of initiatives, even more than many who have discussed life issues, and have done far more in this area. If we had a full report, we would have had the opportunity to say both concretely and what we now know, and without that report, but if we had a report, we would have reason and facts that we couldn't close our eyes to. It is our conclusion, therefore, that we cannot support a vote of mistrust in a way that closes our eyes to facts, that the facts are ignored and that some totalitarian approach, which simply cannot bring good, addresses key issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is high time for critics to speak by name and last name to criticise the address they deserve, and we will give our court on members of the Council of Ministers of BiH when it is an opportunity and when it is in the interest, indeed, to do so in a productive way, not for the sake of exclusively campaigning. So the MPs' Club of the Coalition for the Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot support access to equality, ignoring and closing their eyes to facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2644	Thank you. Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2645	I had a need to react to the continuation of this session, but unfortunately, it didn't happen. I would like to point out that the College of the PSBiH House of Representatives, in addition to the Provisions of the Interim Rules of Procedure, has called this session. Since there is no respect for the fundamental principle when calling for a session, this is that, with the draft agenda, all MPs also receive the introductory material for each proposed item of the agenda. Such a position, although it is only formal at the moment, brings this Parliament into one situation of a talking room with an endless extension of the debate, with a debate over certain points, which are not on the agenda. So today we are able to make up for the formal report, i.e. the lack of a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, to compensate for the debate on the analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers on the basis of the non-existent report, but on the basis of this, you will allow me, and here I am slightly different from the predecessors, and some TV shows. This cannot be a relevant assessment of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. I would like to say that the approach to vote on non-trust, as one of the most important political points in each parliament, requires a more serious face-up of arguments, requires a report, requires the position of the BiH Council of Ministers and demands, after that, a statement. All of this we skipped, and legitimately, of course, there was a request 87 to vote on mistrust or disband, as it was said here. Therefore, I would like, pointing to this one formal thing, to point to the fact that even for some other agenda points that are even in today's session, we do not have relevant documents that should have been provided to us by the College, as a proposing agenda, and I am afraid that we will also have a debate on other points of the agenda that will lead us to a political campaign and political competition. That is, therefore, my principled remark, and Dr. Genjac said the essential thing on behalf of the Coalition for the CD BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2646	Thank you very much. Mišo Deretić. I just want to speak briefly to Ambassador Kadić. How do you interpret, Mr. MP, the right of the MPs to suggest during the session the item of the agenda, if we accept the position you have expressed? I'm just asking a question. The Rules of Procedure regulate it, I can read it now. This is the agenda that was adopted here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2647	Mr. President, I answered Mr. Kadić's line.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2648	Excuse me, can I just have one sentence? I apologize, further leadership of the Assembly will be taken over by Mr. Genjac, since the ambassador of India has come to visit. The visit is scheduled at 5:15 p.m. Therefore, I ask you to continue the session one of the deputies.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2649	Mr. Chairman, since I'm going to be half a minute, I'd like you to listen to me, however, because I think that this replica of me applies to you as well. In fact, the fact is that Mr. Kadić said that we really don't get enough material for the sessions, but it's not the first time. I really have to say that since we started, I guess, since we've all gathered here for the first time, and that's to this day, we never get the materials in whole, but we get one big or bigger part of the material and in the session itself. I only volunteered for the replica because at the last session of this council, which was a few days ago, it was proposed that the session be held on the 29th of this month. And that's why I volunteered for the replica, because it was Mr. Kadić who insisted that the meeting of the Representative Council be held this week. Unfortunately, however, it turned out that there wasn't enough time for all the points of preparation and, unfortunately, for these very reasons, we found ourselves in this position where we are now. So, for future reference, I ask you, Mr President, or the President, and the College not to schedule meetings of the Representative Council unless all points, which are foreseen and agreed, are prepared, on the one hand, except, normally, there are certain justified cases where, in certain cases, it is necessary for us to meet here. So these are exceptions. That's it. 88
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2650	I beg you, gentlemen, it's very difficult to please everyone here and there are a lot of contradictory views. This must be put on the first session, so when we put on, expecting material within the time limit prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, he does not come, then you criticize us for what we have put on, so when we take off, because there is no material, then you criticize us for taking it off. So when we get it back, then you're criticizing us for bringing it back. So it's very difficult. But please, mostly we, as a Kolegijum, make decisions by consensus and there are very few of our decisions that we don't make and we take care of everything you say. I think it would be good, and I want to tell you that today's work is done with this point, if you're okay with it, and we'll continue the next seven days. Of course, we should also give the BiH Council of Ministers a chance to submit a report. To perhaps ask the SDP Club to support this position, I do not insist, that we interrupt the session and continue it next week, at half past noon, with all the materials, but that the BiH Council of Ministers understands what is now his obligation to deliver that day. And I think by that day we'll have all the materials. It's never too late to do this, but everything that's done should be done with dignity and arguments. It seems to me that it would be some kind of compromise that could be achieved at the moment. The poslanik Špirić first asked for a word, then the Messenger Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2651	Ladies and gentlemen, my vision is not that the agenda is not prepared, but those chosen by the people are not ready to work in the interests of that same people. There are enough reasons, in Mr Genjac's discussion, that we are doing this job today, because as far as I can understand it, says the CD Coalition is also not satisfied with the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, but only individual ministers, thinking, probably of ministers who are not from the CD Coalition. The Slog coalition, too, probably, or thinks it's not happy, but that we should probably step out of the CD coalition. That is enough reason to tell citizens that it is an unnatural environment of parties made up of the BiH Council of Ministers who all seem to punish Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I support the individual statement today, and I don't think there are many arguments to escape from the eyes of the people and the citizens who chose us. This is the second time since the BiH Council of Ministers' election, that we have a chance to say what we think, first of all, about the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and about the political conglomerate of the options made up of the BiH Council of Ministers. And that's why I suggest we make an individual statement, if we're ready. Believe me, if there's no willingness to deal with problems and after the report, which can be written on 100, 200 pages, nothing will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2652	Thank you. Is there anyone else? You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2653	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, Mr. Chairman and Chairman, since you have expressed the views of the CD Coalition here, a little clarification, the truth, with some nuances within the CD Coalition itself, I would like to say, in addition to our reasoning and suggestions, a few words and to respond to the 89 proposal sent to us by the chairman, until you started to chair, to postpone everything by seven days. First, we are not agreed to postpone this and interrupt the session, not on this point, but on any of the following. We insist, therefore, that we vote on our proposal to mistrust the BiH Council of Ministers, which is a constitutional category based on which, if no confidence is voted, the disbanding of the BiH Council of Ministers, or its resignation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, follows. We ask, therefore, that the vote be carried out individually, to be carried out today, after the debate on this agenda has ended. Then, we ask that the work of the Assembly continue, to move on to the next points of the agenda, regardless of the results of the vote, because, as I have already said, as far as we're concerned, this Council of Ministers of BiH has, in any case, long since become a technical government and does not change a matter of substance, nor does voting their trust or not. He, in any case, means the political differentiation between us here and us all together towards the survival of the condition we have so far. Since our proposal here is characterized by the words that, apparently, it was, as it was said, the intention not to work, because if our intention was to do something, then we would wait for the report. I think it's a classic turn of thesis. In fact, our intention is obvious to do something, and our intention to do nothing is to do with those who have not made a report to this day, or to remind you, if we follow the logic that has been heard here, we can have this Council of Ministers until the next election, because they have already been obliged to give us a report three times, they have never given it to us before, and we see absolutely no reason to suggest that we can expect them to receive the report. However, Mr Genjac, in front of the CD coalition, presented a very clear and precise stance that has further convinced us that a non-confidential vote by the BiH Council of Ministers is needed. In fact, the claim that some of us like them, and some of us don't like them, we're happy with someone we're not, is in every country in the world absolutely enough reason for the BiH Council to resign as a whole and try to find a group of people who would be happy with each other and try to do something about it. If I may say so, Mr. Genjac, to you as, not the chairman, but to the man who expressed the views of the CD Coalition, unfortunately, you see, whether you wanted it or not, you are one team, this Council of Ministers of BiH, that is, you should function accordingly. If it doesn't work as a team, it shouldn't work. You can't sell us the logic by which BiH citizens are driving in planes that say Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then you say, "We like the pilot, the maintenance mechanic works poorly, and the flight controller is trying to crash the plane, but we're asking for it to continue." So we don't argue that in the BiH Council of Ministers, when individual differentiation occurs, there are people who have done their job very successfully, there are people who wanted a lot. This country is full of people who try a lot, but objectively work in one context that can't produce a result. And just to stop that context that gives us such a result, in which all of us are threatening to crash together with you, we do not want to be complicit in this, and therefore we ask to approach the vote on our proposal and continue, in accordance with the adopted agenda, as we said at the beginning of today's session, that is, at the beginning of the last session. It is in the interest of all of us, including the members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that the BiH Council of Ministers ceases to operate in the way it has done so far, and that, unfortunately, can only be done by the BiH Council of Ministers to leave, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and then to see what we will do next.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2654	Thank you. Of course, I'll refrain from the replicas to save time, because these comparisons with planes and rockets, I haven't been able to keep up until the end, because sometimes a mechanic will have to change and make a successful pilot drive. But let's not hang on to it. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2655	Mr. Genjac, I want it to be determined that I didn't mention the missiles.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2656	There were rockets in the election campaign last year, so I found an analogy. So, we move to a vote based on a proposal from the MPs that reads - I have a written proposal here: Poslanik Tokić - a proposal: In the absence of obligations to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that required the delivery of the report, an analysis of the work of the Council of Ministers, I propose that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, initiate the process of recalling the Council of Ministers of BiH. That's how I got it in writing. Please, I just inherited this. Later, Mr Tokić, and I noticed it, suggested -- he modified the proposal to put the issue of mistrust to the BiH Council of Ministers, in line with the Rules of Procedure, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2657	I do not dispute that, indeed, there is one school that this Parliament has always to bring into a chaotic state, but I would only ask that, in accordance with the discussion presented in the stenogram, and I have checked with the majority, there is no need to repeat it, and I would very much like to repeat it if necessary, in an argument that applied to three important segments -- this is the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers in transition processes, the transition process has been stopped. The country lives on communist laws in the party where Špirić was. The country has not yet moved to the market because there are no customs duties, there is no adequate tax reform, in the peace agreement process we do not have adequate implementation of Annex 7, refugees and exiles. In the process of Euro-Atlantic integration, along with Belarus and Yugoslavia, we are the only country that has not entered the Council of Europe, etc., etc. Therefore, the formulation, in addition to the arguments given by the MPs - on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club MPs, is a proposal to approach the vote of no confidence, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, after which ( your colleague from the SDS, Mr Banjac) will be disbanded by the BiH Council of Ministers. There. And we're asking to vote individually on it. The argument is indicated broadly, but look, this Council of Ministers of BiH, they are for themselves, indeed, an argument. There.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2658	Okay. I'm just saying that Mr. Tokić was supported by colleagues from the SDS, so that proposal can be united, I think. In front of the SDS and Radical Party MPs' Club, the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2659	Mr. Genjac, what kind of way is that? You can't run a session like that. There's a Rules of Procedure here and it's scandalous what you're trying to do. 91
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2660	Would you like a word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2661	Oh, I can't think of anything.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2662	Thank you. So, the sekretarijat delivered me that there were two proposals -- one from Mr. Tokić and the other from Mr. Špirić, and here it stands, as the sekretarijat delivered me, that Mr. Špirić supported Mr. Tokić's proposal. I thought I'd combine the proposals, not approach two votes. Thank you. So, you're taking your proposal for yourself. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2663	Ladies and gentlemen, I think Mr Špirić is this third session and is too clear, as an MP, about the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I didn't mention any of the parties at any time, but spoke as an MP, Nikola Špirić, and the president, now I have to meet you, the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and Krajina, who, in the coalition with the SDS, has entered this parliament. As an MP, I must be honest, I will be happy to support any solution that brings about the economic progress of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities. I will be against any solution, no matter what option it came from, that punishes both entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina. But don't hide your failed symbiosis of two coalitions that have been punishing both entities and Bosnia and Herzegovina for a year. I am not afraid to say that I will support the proposal of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Social Democrats. I think the Social Democrats are not the shame of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but those who punish Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the ruling option of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- the SDA. And you can't hide the SDA behind everything that punished Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I'll tell you after this point. The gates of The Hague will have to be opened for many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2664	Suggestion to vote in particular? Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2665	From what I've noticed here, I can see that I was right when I last reported that the story of the BiH Council of Ministers is, in fact, an indirect story about the parties. I would indeed ask my fellow MPs not to take parties to some personal evaluations like this, because it is a matter of a little broader debate, other topics and other places. We know clearly what this point is called. This single statement proposal, believe me, I can't understand it all the way. Here are proposals that have probably been in practice in some systems that I objectively do not know how to judge someone immediately and judge someone unless we hear his statement. Here, I'm putting myself in a position to plead on what they're looking for -- the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. If I were to vote against the Council of Ministers of BiH, it would mean that I am voting against Mr Silajdžić's activities, his packages of law on judicial reform, the establishment of borders and other things. How can this be an assessment of the BiH Council of Ministers without being evaluated on other matters. Therefore, please, 92 you who are proposing a statement on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers speak more about it and less about politics and political concepts. And I'd like to ask you not to make these customer reviews so lightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2666	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. We will approach the proposal of Mr Tokić's MPs and the way it is required - an individual statement. A statement on the motion to vote non-confidential to the BiH Council of Ministers. So, who's in favor of mistrust, who's against mistrust, who's being held back? Please, these are options. For commitment and for mistrust, for there to be no misunderstanding. We're going individually. I'll read one MP at a time. Alagić Raifa - v. I'm asking the Secretariat to keep a record. Bičakčić Edhem - not present. Branković Nedžad – v. Please, whoever I call and do not answer with your voting option, it is understood that he is absent. And it's going to be on the voting log. Čaršimamović Tarik - absent. Čolo Alma. Filipović Mediha - v. The Genjac Halid-against. Jahić Adnan - v. Kadić Rasim - abstention. Neimarlija Hilmo against. Oručević Safet – absent, justified. Pamuk Mustafa-against. Silajdžić Haris - v. Spahić Ibrahim, absent. Bogić Bogićević - yes. Lagumdžija Zlatko - yes. Ivo Mijačević - absent. Muminagić Suada - for. Divković Ivo - for. Tokić Sejfudin - for. HDZ Havel Ana - v. Zovko Ljubomir - v. Pašalić Ivica - absent. Prlić Jadranko-against. Skopljak Pero - absent. Tomić Neven - a procedure for resolving MPs has been completed. Mr. Jadranka Prlić has not yet completed the procedure for replacing the MPs. Tomić Neven, therefore, is no longer an MP. NHI Ivo Lozančić - absent. Bečirbašić Smail - v. Karić Munira - v. Malkić Abdurahman - abstention. SRS Balta Radenka - yes. Mirković Dragan - for. Deretić Miodrag - abstentioned. 93 Bošnjak Milenka - abstentioned. Dokić Branko - absent. Jovanović Branislav - abstentioned. Rakić Vito - absent. Banjac Mirko - absent. Perkanović Mara - yes. Rađević Desanka - abstentioned. Špirić Nikola - yes. So nine was for mistrust. 14 were against mistrust. Six abstentions. Therefore, the proposal has received quite a small minority of votes, unfortunately. Thank you. Any objections to the vote, please? Thank you. Please make a record statement. Now we have one proposal, please, that the session's extension be scheduled in seven days, that all points of preparation be prepared in an adequate manner -- as was the agreement at the College. To consider points that are ready with materials. And one suggestion is to keep working. Please. So one proposal is to continue the session - the third follow-up in today's day at half past twelve. The second proposal is to keep working. Please, I'm asking the MPs, who's in favor of breaking up at this time and having the session resume in seven days. To get all the points ready. Who's in, please? Twenty-two for it. Who's against it, please? Who's against breaking up the session and continuing in seven days. Who's against it, please? I'm bringing the vote to an end. I ask the MPs to be careful and follow the work of the session. The first proposal was to stop working now and continue in seven days. The proposal was voted 22. Who's against it, please? Six. Thank you. So, most of the votes we've established. On the exact beginning of the sequel, we will inform the MPs. Please, there's an intervention. Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2667	I apologize for this intervention. I call on the College of Representatives' House, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, to warn the College of the House of Representatives that the continuation of the session cannot be continued on the basis of those documents that we received at the request of the SDP. These are not documents that, in full, are the response of the BiH Council of Ministers to what is contained in the agenda item - Report on the SDP request of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's just a part of the SDP request and we could meet again at a dead end and we could come back in a position to interrupt the debate at the House of Representatives. 94 Thank you. You will be informed of the continuation of the session. The seat was interrupted at 17:45.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2669	Since there are 33 MPs present in the Chamber, we can continue the work of the 11th session of the House of Representatives. I welcome all present MPs and guests. Thank you very much for having responded in such a large number. 14 MPs from the Federation of BiH 19 attend the Republika Srpska session, a total of 33. We have a quorum. Here's the moment 34. So, from Federation of BiH 20. We have a quorum, and we can do it right. I suggest we keep working where we left off last time. Before that, I would like to introduce you to the Commission, which is the chairman and two vice-presidents, who agreed on the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum and the proposal for a law on the establishment of a common police force to combat terrorism of inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking. You received the report in the work material, with that I would like to draw your attention that in the first part, when it comes to the Immigrant and Asylum Law proposal, one sentence was left out by mistake, which is that in the text of the Immigrant and Asylum Bill, which has received most of it since the first vote, that is what this proposal means, the Commission has not reached agreement, of course, has not reached agreement on the amendments either, because this was the reason for not achieving concrete consent. For the law without amendment was Mr. Genjac, with amendments Mr. Skopljak and I, if that means anything to you. According to the business procedure, I suggest we do the second round of voting on this, to finish the work with those points and then to continue the work. You know that in the first and second rounds of voting it's important to see how much the entity has against it, so we'll just do a vote at that level, because it's important whether the law got or didn't get through. There are 34 MPs in the hall. Please, is it true? That's right. So there are 34 MPs present. Who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2670	Fellow MPs, esteemed presidency, 95 Before we go to the plea, to make it clear to us how we did, please explain to us, or to me to explain if it was clear to others, why you agreed to the amendments. I made a note to myself, when we voted, that amendments were not accepted. I realized that the Law did not receive the necessary entity majority and that the Law should be agreed, not amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2671	I mean, you're right that we should have, but in order to achieve agreement, Your Honor, Madam MPs, we also need a compromise. The problem of reaching a compromise was amendments and, therefore, we had nothing to agree on, if we were not to change anything, because the situation would remain unchanged. It's an unequivocal alignment, if there isn't one, but what's here. There's got to be something changing or subtracting, adding and subtracting. If it stays the same, then there's no need to align. How we can reconcile something that is immutable and as such could not get a pass. So the alignment implies a compromise between the parties in the alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2672	I, as I recall, we made a statement about the amendment and were not accepted. For me, the vote on amendments is over. Now we should have tried to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2673	You're right, but in the meantime I've reached an agreement to give up all amendments, except for two, which is, therefore, a new situation and we haven't reached agreement here, and that's exactly why it was, so it's not identical to the first one, but it's nothing controversial, the concrete text is being voted on and no consent has been reached.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2674	Then you were supposed to write us a report about which two amendments you agreed on, so let's know.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2675	Okay, you're right about that, but we've reached an agreement on that, too. It says which one exactly, number one. Branislava Jovanović and 2. Miodrag Deretić. It says exactly what you read.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2676	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the procedure, would be my suggestion that, if possible, today we come to another law within the Assembly and, probably, in that context, the College considered not only what last time had not received all the necessary majority, but also what was on the agenda, finding the possibility of creating conditions for this law to be accepted in the Assembly. Therefore, my suggestion would be that, if the first vote did not give the law the necessary majority in both entities, to continue the debate on two amendments that were accepted by the two co-chairs, whether immediately or to hold another discussion about it. 96 I think it would be useful to show that we are ready to come to a solution by compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2677	Thank you very much. Right now, he's reporting for the word of the vice-president, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2678	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I think this is a perfectly appropriate remark from Parliamentarian Muminagić. I've made an objection to the compliance record. For the sake of future practice, we must take care of it for the sake of respecting the procedure. The record was made up in a way that someone from the College would accept amendments, someone from the College would not accept amendments. The subject of the Commission's agreement, in whose capacity the College has performed, is only the decision, the law or what it gets in parliament, most of it. The subject of the alignment was the Law proposed by the Council of Ministers and agreed on by the Council of Ministers. That law was given to most and it was the subject of reconciliation. I was for such a law to be adopted, we did not achieve consent, there were members of the College who were not in favour of such a law being passed. Corrections were made in the text, however, following the intervention, talks on amendments, whether someone accepts them or does not accept them, from the moment they do not get most, they are a matter of free talks. I respect the efforts to pass this law, however, to respect the procedure, to respect the Rules of Procedure, and we today have an obligation to make a statement on the draft law in form that has come in line with the Council of Ministers of BiH and I ask you to stick to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2679	Thank you very much. I am encouraged by the statement of the esteemed deputy, because he insists on conducting the procedure, which is very important. I don't think a alignment is necessary if it can't be changed in what's been voted upon, it's one business indeterminateness, because if everything remains status quo, then, which we agree on, gentlemen. Then let's keep it that way, then there's no need, then we're wasting our time. I think Mr. Dokić's remarks are appropriate and I think it is appropriate to comment on MP Dokić. I was going to suggest we get an opinion on his proposal to the Constitutional Commission. The esteemed Deputy Genjac insisted on what it says in the Rules of Procedure and I will stick to it absolutely, it is not disputed. There's no dispute here. I'm putting the Immigrant and Asylum Act in the proposed text as it got half the majority in the first round, so you know what you've put in there. 97
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2680	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Law on Immigration and Asylum is not an irrelevant law for the state of BiH, so I would ask you, as always, to seek, regarding these amendments, suggestions and the principle opinions of the OHR office. It is about amendments that are with the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement, and let us not be too hasty in everything that might seem to be a compromise, that we are not yet pleading, that we are not sneering at the situation, but that of the highest representatives present here daily in our work and giving useful suggestions, we are asking to see whether these amendments are in collegiate with the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton Agreement, and I assure you that they are not and that, because of seemingly marginal things that are essential to the adoption of such a law, we are not breaking things over our knees. It does not matter, let us plead, and some shall be in favour, and some against. Is there, at all, a will in Parliament for compromise? BiH citizens must be explained why the amendment is not accepted. Is this the way to rush the vote punished BiH, I assure you it is. It doesn't really matter, does it, we've voted you over and we won't, for God's sake, amend the MPs from Republika Srpska. Why don't you tell us why you're against it? Please, and the OHR gentleman to say, as in a series of legal papers tell us, whether or not it's agreed or not, it's obvious about this problem. I think we need to stop with the pranks. I assure you it's a classic prank, and that's why I'm not here to plead, if we could wait ten days, wait for the next session and ask for the consent of the OHR office, not the consent, but the opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2681	I must tell you, we are not obliged to declare ourselves at this session on the following basis, there is no obligation. Businessly, I can postpone it and no one can dispute it, but I see no reason, although I find it justified that MP Špirić spoke, both amendments are related to express constitutional jurisdiction, and I have obtained an agreement on parallel relations between SRJ and Republika Srpska, the set stands, however, if, I do not know, MP Špirić, does your suggestion mean that you are seeking a statement? Shall we plead today, is that what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2682	I think it's better to get along.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2683	It's a deal. I don't have a business obligation to put it on today. I thought, since we're done and the three of us have nothing to talk about anymore, because we're standing at different points of view. One member of the Commission is absolutely against two amendments. We gave up, the two of us, out of everyone but those two, that's the condition. These two amendments stand. No need, you know them, sir, MPs know, you got them, I don't see a reason. You know what this is about. It is about the fact that citizens of the SRJ and the Republic of Croatia can enter BiH without passports, with ID cards, and others, as a condition for obtaining citizenship, apply the view of the Constitution where it is said: entity citizenship implies BiH citizenship. It means that the original citizenship of the entity is to recognise BiH's citizenship. It's a constitutional 98 decree. We can read these constitutional provisions, perhaps it's more important than reading the amendments. Does Rakić feel it is more important to read the amendments or constitutional provisions? There's no need, so he quit.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2684	I appeal to the procedure again. You could have whispered that to me. On the agenda, we don't have a debate on amendments and a debate on the law. Subject law was on the agenda and the debate was held. In all such situations, it is a business obligation to make a statement after the collatement of the College, as a commission, and that is all the story. These conditions were met, since the College, in the capacity of the commission, carried out the alignment. It's also been three days, the longest of three days to get the alignment done, and we have the conditions to declare ourselves to the law. Before the plea, it was a proposal from the MP to postpone the plea. I think that proposal should be put to the vote, it's for delaying the plea... The President-in-OfficePoslanik Špirić, is asking us to state who is in favour of delaying the plea. Before the vote........................................................
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2685	Thank you very much, that's your opinion. Mr. Špirić, in the meantime, formulate a proposal that I know with the Sekretarijat, that I know exactly, whether you asked for a match with the OHR and see what it is, how much it is on what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2686	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I really urge that we do not make a mess out of Parliament. We have a very small number of laws that the BiH Council of Ministers has agreed in its work. Your definition is to try this Council of Ministers of BiH, which has agreed, that these laws get their epilogue in the parliamentary procedure. I would not like to suffer in public, as a member of the 99 Parliament, a criticism that Mr Silajdžić may be giving himself tomorrow, he will say to himself that he has proposed something to himself, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, and Parliament has not yet spoken. Gentlemen, the BiH Council of Ministers has agreed seven laws for its work. It is one thing to extend the period of validity of passports, one thing is to harmonise that it comes in 2000, etc., but that minimum that it has agreed, which is, in my opinion, below all minimums, let it get its epilogue in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and it gets an epilogue from the aspect of responsibility, if the Council of Ministers' proposal today cannot get its required majority, then it is a crisis of the BiH Council of Ministers. Then don't be against the proposals of the BiH Council of Ministers' law... for an extension of the BiH Council of Ministers' status, then there's something wrong. Therefore, I, too, respect Mr Špirić's intensity, and when he gets his epilogue, parliamentary statement, remains the BiH Council of Ministers to try to come up with a new solution, but let us not stop in Parliament a procedure that is very clearly agreed. I insist that, according to the business procedure, we plead and that the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers gets its epilogue at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The process of reconciliation, the need for consensus on this issue, about hundreds of other issues remains the task of ruling political parties that have a parliamentary majority in this House and who have their majority in the BiH Council of Ministers and who have their majority in the BiH presidency, is for us the same political concept, just in three variants, let us formally complete the statement on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2687	Replica, please. I was going to call on the co-chairman, Mr. Mihajlović, to plead, because there was a misunderstanding about, no agreement was reached by the BiH Council of Ministers on the amendment, no agreement was reached.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2688	I want to be clear to the end and make it clear to the public what this is all about. We are looking for OHR's opinion, as it is a legislative project, so, if it is necessary for the Venice Commission, to see why amendments that are in line with the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement come under the reluctance of the Bosniak side. Don't accuse us of obstructions because you're wrong. I'm just asking the OHR to plead and, if necessary, the Venice Commission to say so. The amendments are in accordance with the Constitution or are against the BiH Constitution. If they are in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, then, gentlemen, you must admit that you are obstructing and that the legal projects are coming, regardless of what MPs are discussing in the spirit of the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement, in refusal in this manner, so I ask the party to plead through the OHR and, if necessary, the venecijanski... He was one of the proposals, since we don't have to put an end to the agenda today, whether we should put it or not. I'll put the plea on, that's fine, but I'm interrupting the debate, because it doesn't make any sense anymore. Please, how many MPs, 33 or 34, now tell me. 34, so. Please, who's in favor of delaying the plea? 100 XXX. If the BiH Council of Ministers withdraws this proposal from the procedure, then there is no logic for us to plead. If you get... No. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2690	I think it's in the right place to comment. There's no problem. Is there a chance we can hear the BiH Council's position?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2691	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers of BiH has proposed this law. We didn't pull this law. We tried last time to make a statement about the proposed amendments to this law. We did not accept the proposed amendments although A different debate was held in the Council of Ministers of BiH, but I want to tell you that the Council of Ministers of BiH has come to a certain compromise and proposed this law, which does not mean you in Parliament need from letter to letter to accept what is proposed. Of course we don't have the ambition to pass ideal laws. Each of you, when considering a certain proposed text, has seen that this text is possibly improved, of course, which must be given to the parliamentary majority here. I think that the proposed amendments, or part of those amendments, should be considered at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and not only under this law, but under all the laws offered. A parliamentary debate should be opened because it is desirable in Parliament. Let's not look at things just black and white. It would be logical for the proposed amendments to be led by the debate, agreed, contacted between parliamentary clubs to come to the right solution, that is the purpose, in my view, since I was a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the past, and it is logical that through these contacts there is an improvement in the text of the law. Don't transfer responsibility to the BiH Council of Ministers now, whether the BiH Council of Ministers is this or that. The Council of Ministers of BiH has offered you the text of the proposed law that you have before you and we have agreed and we have no intention of withdrawing it, and it is up to you to improve the text, of course, if you get a parliamentary majority for that improvement. I see here that you in the basic text all agree. It means that the law is not controversial in the proposed text. They only have two minor improvements. I probably think that these are improvements, it doesn't necessarily mean that everyone you need to agree on is whether or not you feel that you adopt this law and take it down once and go on in the process. Give a little more co-operation, if according to the Rules of Procedure the chairman has these opportunities to either postpone or continue to agree to the next parliament which would be good, indeed, 101 that we do not look at things in black white, but in the interest of all of us here find solutions that will suit all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2693	I'd like to ask Mr. Co-chairman, please. The basic text was not controversial. We have sent two, more amendments to the Proposer. You have rejected everything, but around two key amendments have not reached agreement with the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH Council of Ministers on the final text, I finally speak, has no agreement. Am I right? I'm asking, don't let me ask, I'm asking the co-chair.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2694	The procedure, since no consent has been reached, means that amendments have not been accepted, remains the basic text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2695	I want an answer. No more discussion and I'm putting on a plea, the man said everything. We have a statement to make. So he wasn't withdrawn, as we heard, by the motionor. Here there is, Mr Špirić delivered his proposal to me to postpone the statement on the law, since we are not obliged to discuss it today at the same session, the Law on Immigration and Asylum until OHR or the Office of the High Representative give an opinion on the constitutionality of the amendment, the compliance of the amendments with the Constitution of BiH, the amendment, means, 1st Mrs Rađević and 2nd Mr Deretić. Who's to postpone this, there are 34 MPs present, this plea for the next session? Ten. Who's against it? To delay the plea, of course, you heard the formulation. 14. The motion to postpone has not received the required majority. There's no need to go to an entity vote. I'll put it on. He started the voting process, and as soon as I'm done, I'll give you my word. Who is in favour of adopting the Law on Immigration and Asylum as proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH? 20 for it. Who's against it? 11 against, 3 are abstentions. Any objections to the voting procedure? There isn't. Now I ask you, by entities, to plead further. Who's against this RS law? Ten. There are more than two-thirds, he didn't get the law, but we'll count the vote to the end. Who's against the Federation of BiH? 1. The law did not receive the necessary majority and was not adopted by the Law on Immigration and Asylum. We're going to another law. It's a law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime, and unauthorized drug trafficking. Who is for this law in the proposed form? 17. He didn't get half the majority, he got exactly half. It has to be against entities, it has to be done from end to end. Who's against the RS? Ten. From the Federation of BiH, against. Since the law did not get 102 possible to pass because of two-thirds of the RS delegates who voted against, the law was not accepted. Excuse me, sir, MP, please read the Rules of Procedure, it must be two-thirds against the entity in the second round and therefore it must be held until the end of the entity. Now we can give our word. I apologize, Mr. Tokić, first Deretić, then you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2696	Dear colleagues chairing, you, fellow MPs, Here, we can take this as an eclectic example of how it wants to be obstructed by the adoption of very important legislation that is, among other things, the assumption of BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. I felt the need to say this for the reason that representatives from the international community also see that the situation is not what MPs from the Bosniak order want, a large number of MPs from the Bosniak people, to show. Officially, MPs from the RS, Serbian MPs were against this legislation, the Law on Immigration and Asylum, only because there was no good will to accept two proposed amendments that are in line with the BiH Constitution. They did not want to accept these two amendments, because precisely from the Bosniak people, a large part of the MPs, it is going to be formally, because I am personally experiencing it, and I voted against that law, breaking ties between Srbin on the one hand and Drina, that is a fundamental problem. There's no good will. There is no good will for compromise, for this reason we are in this position, so I ask the distinguished gentlemen of the international community not to always come from the fact that Serbian MPs are the ones who obstruct the work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2697	I'm asking the MP to stop this debate. This isn't the point's content. Please stop. I can't allow a debate like this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2698	Mr. Banjac, would you be so kind as to allow me? I have the right, as an MP, to state and explain for what reason I voted against the Law to be voted on. Please, don't deny it to me, it's my constitutional right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2699	The vote is over, MP, you have to understand that. Tokić, can we give him a replica? Not that man. I'm asking you to bring this to an end. Now don't let the political debates take place here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2700	Chairman, I ask you to perform consistently with each MP and every discussion afterwards. I am, indeed, warning you and asking that no one here speak nor speak on behalf of the Serbian MPs. Here they competed and political parties were present, and this gymnastics, as someone tries to explain, that by voting against the law, they voted for admission to the Council of Europe and that after the law where representatives of the same coalitions, where MPs, agreed in the BiH Council of Ministers, the law...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2701	Please, I have to deny you, and I denied him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2702	You can't deny me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2703	How can I not?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2704	You can't. You can't do that because you don't have the right to abuse the presidency. You have an obligation to treat each MP equally.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2705	I'm closing this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2706	You don't lock up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2707	I'll interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2708	Stop the session. No one in this room should speak for the sake of Serbian, Croatian or Bosniak... on behalf only, and stop the next time someone speaks like that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2709	I broke it off.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2710	The Social Democratic Party has both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and I do not allow anyone to wave that label.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2711	Sir, I interrupted him and you. Mr. Tokić, it's easier in the future. 104
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2712	Please, I took my word for it a long time ago, and I wanted to talk about the feeling that you brought us back to last session. We're discussing here the amendments that we said last time. The BiH Council of Ministers had a chance to install these amendments into the Law on Immigration and Asylum, to accept your amendments and to make these amendments an integral part of the Law. The BiH Council of Ministers did not do that. We've come to terms with the amendments, and we haven't accepted them. Now you're taking us back to the same situation, to discuss the justification of your amendments again. I still have arguments against these amendments, which are that the issue of entering a personal card into a country is regulated by an international agreement...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2713	You made your point by voting. Thank you very much. On this subject, the vote is over, only if there's anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2714	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I am first expressing a personal protest over the way the chairman opened and led this 11th session today. Regardless of the interruption of MPs in the further phase of his discussion, he allowed, without respect for the procedure, to express first political views and opinions that cannot just break up and shut up. To say the assessments that are very controversial and problematic for this House and, in the end, that the procedurally completed things are returning. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, you asked me to explain my protest to you about the way you led it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2715	You've expressed your protest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2716	I didn't explain. First, it's a principled remark. The main remark was when MP Špirić said, asking for a procedural return to something that was completed, that it was a prank. Who did this to who?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2717	Did I stop him?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2718	You're not then.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2719	I wasn't then. 105
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2720	You did not stop Deretić when he said, he gave some sort of explanation on his part, in the sense that not accepting the amendments means that the Bošnjak want to break ties between Srbin on the one hand and the other. The law on asylum does not regulate the rights of Srbin, but the citizens of BiH and Tokić reacted justly. We do not represent in the House of Parliament, in the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH, delegates perform with the right and obligation to represent the peoples. Just as an illustration, please. A colleague, Tokić, has repeatedly justified and appropriately warned lawmakers mostly from the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2721	Thank you very much. I take your word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2722	I would ask me and Tokić not to say that the SDP party is all three peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2723	Thank you very much, MP, I can't take it anymore. I'm going to the next item on the agenda. They'd like to talk, even if they did, and others would do it, so that we wouldn't interrupt, others not to interrupt, etc. Ad.2. A report and an analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers Please the representative of the Council of Ministers to submit a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2724	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers of BiH, in accordance with the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the Law on the Council of Ministers and BiH ministries, is responsible to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of policies in the fields of its established rights and duties. Within the framework of the above responsibility, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a report on its work for January – September o.g. which you got a few days ago. During the BiH Council of Ministers' reporting period, carrying out tasks under its jurisdiction, he faced certain problems that made it difficult and slowed down the efficiency of his work, which are, moreover, known to all. We primarily think of the fact that BiH is still unable to survive without international assistance, support, still insufficient levels of mutual tolerance and trust, as well as insufficient construction of BiH institutions and their demarcation in relation to 106 entity powers. These problems certainly include the absence of a rule of law, which is certainly seen in a partial or complete disregard and failure to comply with certain, law and other legal acts established. Despite these difficulties, the BiH Council of Ministers achieved some results during the report period. These results shall be examined primarily in the normative legal activity, the establishment of draft individual laws and the decision-making process in the implementation of those laws and other obligations established under their jurisdiction, in their operationalisation, as well as the examination and adequate resolution of all current issues on the agenda of this authority. It is logical and natural that full consensus cannot always be achieved in the performance of its obligations, because of the different, often conflicting interests of the people representing members of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the opposite sightings of the same issue or problem. However, the tendency of the increasing degree of consistency of the members of the Council in decision-making is evident. The report, which is before you, offers an objective state in the area, a review of what has really been done for the past nine months, and it can be assessed differently, depending on the approach. With everything in mind, but indeed everything, both subjective and objective circumstances affecting the work of the Council, as well as the necessary level of understanding of these circumstances, the reporting period is certainly a successful period. That doesn't mean he couldn't have been more successful. By further developing... the process of complete, not partial or selective implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, by further democratisation in all segments of life and by acting in the development of market-oriented and self-sustainable industries, in one causal... relationship, and these results will undoubtedly be greater and more significant. The overall progress will undoubtedly contribute, and everything that has been done so far in the process of realising the Stability Pact and bringing closer to European integration, making BiH the place it truly belongs to in Europe. On behalf of the members of the Council of Ministers, I thank you for your attention and I want you to consider the report in a constructive process.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2725	Mr. Silajdžić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2726	Thank you. This isn't about words, it's about exposure and it's going to take a little time. We think the time has come for some things to be exposed. So far, as you know, we have not used this right and that obligation to discuss the BiH Council of Ministers a little more in detail. On the occasion of the report on the work and the Work Programme of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I consider it reasonable to point out several important issues that are relevant both in analysing what or what has not been done in the past period and in 107 assessing the real possibilities for the action of the BiH Council of Ministers in the coming period. The basic problem restricting the BiH Council of Ministers in the exercise of its responsibilities and responsibilities is in a conceptual deviation from constitutional provisions, which are governed by the sex of the BiH Council of Ministers and its functions, composition and relationship to other BiH institutions. The Constitutional Court, as you know, has already estimated that there is a discrepancy of the BiH Council of Ministers Act with the BiH Constitution. I am very argumentatively saying that no constitutional provision on the BiH Council of Ministers is literally realised. In the structure of the legislative and executive authority, the BiH Council of Ministers, in contrast, please note, unlike the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency, is the only institution where the Constitution has not established a parity system, nor has a consensus or veto in the system of decision-making. In addition to the obligation for the BiH Council of Ministers to form in a certain proportion from both entities, the constitution does not impose any other restrictions. Under the constitution, the concept of the BiH Council of Ministers set up a similar position for the government in modern European systems. Since the PSBiH House of Representatives confirms the composition of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Council president, it is clear that the BiH Council of Ministers, by composition and programme orientation, should hold the result of the elections for the House of Representatives. According to the constitution, the BiH Council of Ministers is the executive authority, whose personal composition is significantly affected by the mandate, taking into account political options of a party or coalition that received a majority in the PSBiH House of Representatives in the elections. In such a situation, the BiH Council of Ministers makes its decision under a procedure that does not foresee consensus or veto, which means that an example that the legislative project cannot be blocked but in the BiH Council of Ministers, but that the draft laws set out by the Council of Ministers must come before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and only then in parliamentary debate and decision-making can constitutional mechanisms of protection of vital interests be activated. According to the Constitution, everything should be like I said. In practice, however, nothing has been set up that way. On the contrary, a new concept of the BiH Council of Ministers was created in which both the elements of the parity and consensus and veto were incorporated, which in practice leads to blockades in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Simply past the constitution, relations were transferred to the BiH Council of Ministers which were designed for the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliament. The concept was not created by the BiH Council of Ministers, as you know, established before the BiH Council of Ministers was formed. The creation, which means a significant deviation from the Constitution, has in some way been imposed by the Office of the High Representative, who has sought a compromise rather than a constitutional solution by giving in to strong pressures from certain political factions. Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers is composed on a parity basis, and its composition does not express an election result in the House of Representatives but rather an expression of the political situation and relations encountered at the time of the signing of the Dayton Agreement and the tendency to maintain these relations permanently. The introduction of parity within the BiH Council of Ministers and the introduction of consensus and veto decisions in decision-making from the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, instead of an operational executive body, created another institution that applies all those blockades that are characteristic of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency, although there is no constitutional basis for this. That is why the BiH Council of Ministers is in a more complicated and difficult situation than the one in which the BiH presidency and the Parliamentary 108 BiH Assembly are located. For the BiH presidency and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as you know, the deblocked instruments are foreseen to protect vital interests. However, since the constitution did not provide for blocking instruments in decision-making from the BiH Council of Ministers' jurisdiction, I repeat, the constitution did not foresee the instruments of the BiH Council of Ministers' blockade. The constitution also provides for ways to address situations created by the BiH Council of Ministers. Practically speaking, if a blockade occurs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, a rather clear procedure and reconciliation procedure has been prescribed, as well as with the BiH presidency. Many issues have waited for years to come to the BiH Council of Ministers' agenda, as consensus cannot be reached when drawing up the agenda. The constitution does not provide for such a consensus, but it is installed by the BiH Council of Ministers Act and is the result of the parity composition of the BiH Council of Ministers. As the head of the BiH Council of Ministers, I have launched an initiative to consider 138 legislative projects, several dozen of which I have submitted in the form of pre-prints or drafts to all of you. Most of these proposals have not even been considered, as the meetings on them could not have been reached by consensus to include them in the agenda. This is not the result of some personal impatience between the people who make up the BiH Council of Ministers, nor is it due to personal relations. The reason for such a situation is an important deviation from the BiH Council of Ministers concept defined by the Constitution. The members of the BiH Council of Ministers act according to the deformed concept. They are not responsible for the majority in the PSBiH House of Representatives and do not represent the team that brought together the mandater. They are responsible for political factions that have produced this unconstitutional creation of the BiH Council of Ministers and which thus control the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. As a rule, the BiH Council of Ministers already pre-breaks those relations, those options that are later presented in the BiH Parliament or the BiH presidency. I do not claim that, in certain cases, members of the Council of Ministers at least occasionally, in part, do not show some independence in decision-making, especially when it comes to the preparation of the bill, however, in such cases the parliamentary blockade is expected and we have seen this well today. I would just like to remind myself of examples of laws that have been fully agreed on by the Council of Ministers and have not been adopted in the past and this session of Parliament. I fully understand that in normal conditions, opening a trust issue to the BiH Council of Ministers means an expression of democratic parliamentary practice, but in this situation, any personal changes would not bring any significant new quality. Whether... and the personal composition of the Council of Ministers would be in the same or very similar situation, precisely because of the deviation from the constitutional concept of this institution. Only if the concept of the BiH Council of Ministers is established, as defined by the Constitution, can it expect more significant, positive changes in its functioning, which will positively reflect the work of the other institutions. The opportunity to reconfirm the Constitution established the concept of the BiH Council of Ministers was opened by the Constitutional Court of BiH's decision, i.e. by amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. It should be borne in mind that new legal solutions on the BiH Council of Ministers are an eminent political issue. That is why I do not think it is the most complete solution to prepare new legal solutions in the BiH Council of Ministers and proposes only the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think there would be a better solution if 109 of this law was entrusted to parliamentary groups, everything could not be on the BiH Council of Ministers. When it comes to the Council of Ministers' Work Programme in the coming period, I believe that the focus of the action should be on preparing and adopting those basic laws that will form at least the basic legal framework necessary for, above all, economic reforms, the rebuilding of the country, the return of exiled and displaced in accordance with Annex 7, strengthening the legality and fight against corruption, as well as all other types of organised crime, the establishment and functioning of necessary institutions at the level of the state, the adaptation of the overall system in all areas in those standards which mean a definitive orientation for entering European integration. These objectives simply cannot be achieved unless the relevant BiH laws are prepared and adopted. I gave the initiative to prepare and pass 138 laws, most of which, at least in the opinion of the legal experts I consulted, are very important for the creation of a legal environment in which positive processes will be accelerated and the overall situation will be normalised. Unfortunately, there have been no reactions to these initiatives. It is clear to me that those political parties and politicians who, openly, do not want normalisation or any reintegration of BiH do not respond to these initiatives, it is quite clear and natural to me. However, it is not clear to me why those political parties and their leaders, who in principle support positive processes, normalisation of the situation and reintegration of BiH on the basis of the Dayton Treaty, do not support concrete legal solutions in a concrete way. In the BiH Parliament, under the circumstances, speaking of the BiH Council of Ministers, it is not quite clear who the position is and who the opposition is. Any member of the BiH Council of Ministers can count on at least three parliamentary factions that are, from his point of view, opposition. However, there are parties and MPs here who declare themselves to be opposition. They are very critical of the BiH Council of Ministers and that is understandable because it is a key function.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2727	I ask the MP to focus on the work report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2728	I'm sorry, this is exposure. I announced the presentation and I will finish my presentation on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2729	As an MP or as a co-chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2730	As co-chairman. There are parties here who declare themselves to be opposition. They are very critical of the BiH Council of Ministers and that is understandable, because it is a key function of the opposition, but we still do not live and do not work under normal conditions, and therefore it would be 110 realistic to expect a constructive approach from the opposition. Under this I believe that it would be logical, on certain legal projects that have been submitted to them, to expect the support of those who are on the basis of a principle debate, especially when it is broadcast by television, they are spiritually in favour of those principles and objectives contained in the proposals of certain laws, such real support, however, does not exist. The fact is that I have never received any written or oral objection to the draft laws that I have already sent for years to each MP, including draft 21 laws that I have delivered in the capacity of MEPs in August o.g. It can be concluded that those who asked to vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' trust were also satisfied with the drafts. Then how do you explain their initiative to vote on trust? How to explain the fact that the opposition asked for a vote on the BiH Council of Ministers' trust at the time the BiH Council agreed on a very important legislative project, and this same law, the BiH Parliament, refused. Today, the same law has been rejected by the BiH Parliament again, and I expect the opposition to now again seek the confidence of the BiH Council of Ministers, as Parliament has rejected it. To understand who we need to talk to here. I understand that parliamentary parties do not talk to each other, but cannot constantly talk to each other through the Council of Ministers of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers agreed to the law. Parliament turned him down. The opposition is seeking the trust of the BiH Council of Ministers. What kind of logic does that make? What do you want with that? Otherwise, it is a rather negative approach when it comes to this part of the BiH Parliament. How to explain that a very successful job, such as the organisation of the Summit of Stability in... is getting recognitions and congratulations from around the world, while the opposition is trying to show the whole work in an extremely negative light. How to explain a very large and rare result such as foreign investment in Željezar Zenica, which so far represents the largest investment in the Federation of BiH, some opposition leaders seek to defuse and minimise. It's not a responsible political approach. In the situation where we are, everyone can contribute to making it worse, but from all of us, regardless of whether we consider ourselves an opposition or a position, we are expected to do so now, not after some new future elections, to do as much as we can, because without... the contribution and concrete treatment of each of us in the Council of Ministers of BiH and in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If the priority of the BiH Council of Ministers and of the BiH Parliament is to urgently pass at least the necessary laws, then the relationship of each of us, according to each legislative proposal, has measured contributions and personal responsibilities. Of the 138 laws, I repeat, the 138 laws we have initiated here, which I believe are necessary and are in favour of each individual BiH citizen, the Office of the High Representative has marked 21 laws as a minimum and that list has been delivered to you. We're going to show basic responsibility if we adopt the laws on that list by the end of the year. It is no longer a matter of goodwill, it is a question of fulfilling obligations in accordance with the Madrid Declaration. Among the parties and the political options here, there are numerous and large differences. However, with all these differences, I believe there is one point around which we can reach consensus, and that is not to be poor. Three days ago, on the plateau outside this building, here and now, tens of thousands of people gathered. Their basic requirement was to have a job and get paid for what they do. Niko one can say it's an unconvinced, unwarranted or unreal request. 111 The BiH Institutions, above all the BiH Council of Ministers, this Parliament, have responsibilities regarding these requirements, regardless of how any of us interprets and understands the competences of the entity and the jurisdiction of the state and we, indeed, have constitutional, political and moral responsibility towards all BiH citizens, although entities tend to assume key competences in achieving economic reforms and the realisation of the reconstruction and reconstruction programme, have shown that this burden cannot be borne if they act separately if they usurp the competencies of the BiH state and its institutions. It is absolutely clear that without significant foreign investments, BiH cannot get out of this situation and go through economic prosperity. I will repeat, without foreign investment, we cannot get out of this situation, but it is also so clear that foreign capital will not come unless the necessary conditions are met and an appropriate environment is created. Before they invest their capital, foreigners ask the question of what kind of laws we have. We can only answer that most of the laws, the laws that normal countries have, we do not have, that in many areas we still apply the laws that have been passed in the previous, completely different economic system, that some of the key economic issues are regulation of entity laws in a different way. In this situation, it will be difficult to realise significant foreign investments. We've got some results. However, it is not necessary to support and maintain the illusion that foreign capital is eager to come to BiH and it is even more harmful to place the thesis that foreign capital is not needed and that our own forces locked in entities can ensure a better life and prosperity. Let's look at the structure of the countries from which investments have been made in the Federation of BiH so far, today we had this on the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers. Over 69% of total investment comes from Kuwait. We recognise the country's major investor status in BiH's development, but at the same time we have to ask ourselves why there is no capital coming from the most economically developed countries, why there is no capital coming from Western Europe in which we want to integrate, there is only one answer. We haven't met all those preconditions that are necessary to attract foreign capital. To illustrate and illustrate what it looks like, I will present an example of the RS government's behaviour, although similar examples can also be cited in the Federation of BiH. Recently, the RS government made a decision not to accept the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to ban imports of certain animal products into BiH in the Official Messenger. How do you ask the BiH Council of Ministers to function more successfully if the entity government thinks it can unilaterally suspend the decisions of the BiH Council of Ministers. In addition, this... divided the entire economic system has been implemented, because two different import regimes are practically established by entities and it is a daily practice. The even more drastic conclusion of the RS Assembly was published on 11 October. The entity assembly of 1.1.2000 puts off all acts of BiH, which are applied on the basis of continuity, according to the BiH Constitution. It's unconstitutional, it's unsustainable, and it's another barrier to foreign investment, which is exactly why we have to end o.g. Let us adopt at least this minimum package with 21 laws, which is proposed by the Office of the High Representative. At the same time, we propose that entities start negotiations on the additional competencies of BiH institutions without delay and thus implement an explicit constitutional obligation. Additional competences, especially in the economic sphere, are necessary for the establishment of a normal business system and for the overall foreign investment environment. I repeat, this is not a new initiative, because the Constitution explicitly established the obligation of entities to approach the discussion and delegation of additional competences immediately after Dayton, necessary for BiH institutions to act more successfully in the direction of economic reform and reconstruction and reconstruction of the whole country, and our initiatives in this House have never met 112 support. How the BiH Council of Ministers can work afterwards. It is pointless to promote the thesis that we want to integrate economically into Europe and at the same time do nothing or do not do enough to integrate economically within BiH. There's something wrong with that logic. Gentlemen, these few issues concerning the objective conditions in which the BiH Council of Ministers acted and the assumptions for its more successful work in the coming period, I presented without the prospect of giving full analysis of the situation, which is inevitably reflected in the BiH Council of Ministers. It was my intention to raise several important issues that could be resolved in a relatively short time, I repeat, it is possible to resolve them in a relatively short time, and we depend on further steps towards the overall normalisation of the country's situation. Pressure on the BiH Council of Ministers is clear to the extent that the pressure is behind the intention to stop negative trends and speed up positive processes and to consistently implement the Dayton Agreement. If, in turn, an on-call culprit is wanted for all the problems that BiH citizens feel in their skin, then the wrong place has been chosen, the BiH Council of Ministers, because the real centres of power that have a significant impact on the state of the country are not yet in the system institutions. Some of these centres are not only located outside the institutions, but are outside BiH's borders. I am not saying this to justify the Council of Ministers of BiH, but to objectively assess the responsibility of all factors, both external and internal, which affect the situation in BiH. Bringing the Work Programme provides one of the significant assumptions for the successful functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers and thus the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers has the ability to implement the programme, but there is also reason to expect the co-operation and support of all MPs and parliament as a whole, because this is an important condition in the time ahead to implement commitments that depend on whether all BiH citizens will live better. It depends on us, to a good extent, whether BiH's citizens will live better, which is the only measure assessing both the work of institutions and the contribution of each individual. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2731	Thank you very much, break up to 15 to 2. We're starting work. [[PAUZA]] I ask the gentlemen to take their seats. Can we sit down? Before I put the report to the hearing, I ask the members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, does anyone else want to talk about the Work Report?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2732	Ladies and gentlemen, 113 I am not going to talk about the report on the work, because in the opening statement, I said that in the report on the work, what we had and we said, we gave the report and we expect you to come to some conclusions through a constructive discussion, after which, what was not good at the work of ministers and what should be fixed, so that in the next period we could correct some things, observed weaknesses in the work of ministers in this reporting period that you received. I have to do this on this occasion, I would say, to replicate to Mr Silajdžić, who, in his speech here, did not report on the work, but it seems to me that his presentation had nothing to do with the report on the work, but presented one projection, his vision of the BiH Council of Ministers, which, of course, was not the subject of today's agenda. He delivered one opinion personally, without consultation and without attitude on the BiH Council of Ministers. The opinion of Mr Silajdžić, in some ways, has been convinced in various variations so far, but this time Mr Silajdžić opened the cards and said everything he thought about the BiH Council of Ministers. In his presentation, Mr Silajdžić made one wish that had no basis for the Dayton Agreement and the BiH Constitution. The other are desires, and the other is one reality, and that reality is the Constitution of BiH and that Constitution we must all stick to. We know that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, there is no need to convince ourselves, unconstitutional in certain provisions, and that the Constitutional Court of BiH has annulled, or, has given the order to agree within three months, or until the new year, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, but to say that the Council of Ministers of BiH is on the principle of the BiH Government, that the Council of Ministers has a mandate, that the Council of Ministers of BiH will be subject to election results in Parliament, that is something that goes far, far from what we have. We cannot build BiH in such visions and build BiH as a community in this way as a community of equal two entities and equal three peoples. On this principle, we must learn to work on this principle, as Dejton and the BiH Constitution said, we must regulate and relations in BiH's joint institutions, as well as in the BiH Council of Ministers, which should not be an exception. For this reason, I think it would be good to consider Mr Silajdžić's exposure with several aspects, because he has a deep political background. The political background, in my personal opinion, does not contribute to solving these problems that we now have in all BiH institutions. If we want to do better to the peoples of BiH, if we want to deblock BiH institutions, and they are obviously in one crisis right now, we need to show more patience and interest and stick to what Dejton and the Constitution said. If we get out of the constitutional frameworks, then there's something that probably no one would want us to do, which is to do without the law, to do beyond what we have left, which is to strictly stick to the Dejton Constitution, which is practically prescribed by Dejton. From this proposal, I reject Mr Silajdžić's discussion and such a discussion has nothing to do with this agenda point. There will probably be a speech when it comes to the programme, i.e. an initiative for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, where I also have a completely different view of what Mr Silajdžić said. I reject what Mr Silajdžić said, because it is something likely that Mr Silajdžić represents on behalf of his party. He wants us all to become members of his party by his discussion, of course, an absurdity in this parliamentary assembly of BiH, which, as we know, is multi-party.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2733	Thank you very much, Mr. Co-chairman. One piece of information. The college thinks we're going to be working till 5:00 today, and we're going to stop here for as long as we can, because we can't get to that level anymore and continue next week, given the circumstances that we are. Are you against that attitude? You've got nothing. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else from the BiH Council of Ministers to say something, so I can put an end to the discussion. The rest of the BiH Council of Ministers, do they want to talk? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I am putting on a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2734	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, this last sentence of yours, chairing, when you asked the members of the Council of Ministers if they have anything to add, should mean that they agree, of course, in logically elaborated it... with Silajdžić or with Mihajlović or with themselves or with the Report. The component of the report is also the one that should have clarified the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. I must say that they have explained far better the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH than the paper itself. Of course, I would point out that it was clear to the Social Democratic Party that the Council of Ministers of BiH, even when elected on the concept on which it was based, will not be able to give adequate results, that the Council of Ministers, based on the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was voted by representatives of most of the same political parties sitting here, based on the Law which is against the Constitution and that we are talking about our position from last session The report on the BiH Council of Ministers' work, unfortunately, will not give any new light to the work of the council and the possible effects of the work of the council. The Social Democratic Party will therefore use this session to repeat three important segments in which BiH is allowed to be late, among other things, and because of the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers. Speaking of the BiH Council of Ministers, I am talking about a political concept of parties that are identical both in the parliamentary majority of this House and in the BiH presidency. Before I point out these important points, we do not accept this kind of political naivety, as the BiH Council of Ministers allegedly is well, I will only quote Mr Silajdžić “something is wrong with Parliament". That something is not good with parlament, Silajdžić probably meant himself, because, despite all constitutional, legal assumptions, it is not possible to sit at the same time in both the BiH Parliament and the BiH Council of Ministers. I address this formulation primarily to logic that he told himself something was wrong, and it's not okay. The SDP insists on the majority concept in parliament. The concept of the majority is deeply based on double criteria. The double criteria are that the BiH Council of Ministers will agree and agree for months at the end a small number of laws, and I would like to point out that seven laws have been passed in the BiH Council of Ministers, agreed on by the BiH Council of Ministers, for this almost calendar year. To join the EU, according to expert opinions, it takes about a thousand laws. According to these gentlemen, according to this stage, it is 120 years for BiH to join the EU, therefore, we as SDP are not prepared to support such a report. We are not ready because the transition process, especially in the economic sphere, does not include essential processes that BiH should be involved in plural society. The country is still based on economic laws from a party period. Obviously, it was less disturbing to the BiH Council of Ministers, or the political concept on which the BiH Council of Ministers operates, than the need to move faster into these processes. We are not satisfied with the responsibilities of the BiH Council of Ministers in implementing the peace agreement, especially in the context of tasks from the return segments of refugees and exiles, there is a very cool formulation that goes that the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, has carried out significant activities that regulate refugee and displaced persons issues, and has been monitoring and working on state information in the area. I, indeed, think that no morally political conscious man has the right to vote in favour of such a formulation in Parliament, in terms of the problems that exist in this area. Let me remind you, this is primarily the problem of BiH's central institutions. We are not satisfied that every six months we receive information, and we will probably get information today, which from the foreign minister, which from the delegation that goes to Strasbourg, is the same political concepts, the same political people, from the same political structures. As we are getting closer to the Council of Europe and that is only for the next six months, there is something we need to do to get into this oldest European integration. We are not prepared to accept such slowness in resolving these issues, and in return, from the political parties who voted for the Council of Ministers' composition, to listen to the constant flossules about the alleged national interests, the discussions I believed that after the tragedy of the concept which led to the war, which, in these areas of Europe, is one nation, one party, one leader, that I would no longer listen to, at the same time, when the Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak gathered here are talking about being hungry. Therefore, the SDP will vote against such a report because it does not meet the promises, tasks and obligations promised by the BiH Council of Ministers before the BiH Parliament and which have taken account of the overall situation in BiH. A few words about Mr Silajdžić's exposure. A recognizable tone in which everyone is guilty except for Mr Silajdžić, whom we have been listening to for decades, we have heard here that the report says that the Council of Ministers has done nothing or has not done enough. I quote Mr Silajdžić: “In return he offers us a promise that in the coming period, in this concept, nothing will be done, or very little will be done”, and after all, we have not heard everything, not all personal responsibility, nor the need for personal responsibility, offers are other solutions. Supposedly the opposition is guilty. That's what you heard here at this pay phone. It's the entities. If it chokes in front of TV cameras, colleagues at the BiH Council of Ministers are to blame. Everything is ready to defend itself, only to stay in one chair, in one concept in which and after such a discussion and after such a social situation in BiH everything can change, but Mr. Co-chair will remain. We're against that concept. We're here to say, after all, that the two co-chairs themselves are anti-constitutional, that they really need to step down here. This moral principle would require them. We voted against the report, and on the trust of the BiH Council of Ministers, we pleaded at the last session. We think that this Council of Ministers of BiH is no longer necessary for anyone, except themselves, to qualify for each other, based on which they invented 116 as the only country in the world in which we have a two-headed government, or three-headed Council of Ministers of BiH. We're against this report because of the obligations we have to the voters, because of the people who were here. We expect the BiH Parliament to act on this report with the same degree of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2735	Madam Chairman, I am sorry that I cannot tell the ladies and gentlemen of the presidency, because there is not even a grain of respect for equality with us, that finally the BiH Parliament is chaired by Members of Parliament, I believe this new time will bring about a new concept of parliamentary democracy. Regarding the issue of the BiH Council of Ministers' Work Report, which is required as one of the logical consequences of the economic and social situation in BiH and which was expected before the vote on the confidence of the BiH Council of Ministers, we have come to a natural, paradoxical position that, following a failure to vote, by voting, conditionally speaking, trust, we are discussing the Council of Ministers' report. It is the nature and character of this system which rests on the fundamental, well-refused components of the General Peace Agreement by the Constitution itself, as well as the parts of the Peace Agreement, as Annex IV. Since not all annexes are treated equally, and not even international conventions that involve a rational relationship in the construction of such an unusual creation as post-day BiH, on the fourth anniversary of the Dayton Peace Agreement and Paris Consensus, we are in a position to have one session for the first time, I do not know whether we will reach five hours, but the report and the Programme on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is the only encouraging fact in relation to the Report and the Programme. The BiH government's problem, the BiH Council of Ministers, so that someone, as a guilty allegation, would not seek interpretation, the problem of the BiH Council of Ministers is in line with what is a constitutional arrangement, which is completely undeniable, talking about a different concept and character of the government, which implies that there is someone who runs the BiH Council of Ministers and that there is someone who is a team in the BiH Council of Ministers, which corresponds to the BiH Parliament. Since the BiH Constitutional Court said so, I would like to no longer discuss it but to follow the Constitutional Court's decision, as a legislative body, and to adopt the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH as soon as possible, in accordance with the request of the BiH Constitutional Court. That should be the first thing in the BiH Council of Ministers' report. That relationship, probably, would then resolve many dilemmas. It could not happen that Mr. Mihajlović rejects, in absentia or in presence, Mr. Silajdžić's speech, because they differ in terms of the future of the BiH Council of Ministers and concepts, then we would, of course, have to listen to Mr. Lagumdžija and his concept, finally, on what he is resting on, so that we can compare, say, 3-4 concepts, and we have, as Mr. Prlić would say, our opinion on all these different opinions, but we will not say it this time. As far as I'm concerned, I want to say that it is quite clear that we do not have a BiH Council of Ministers or a government in BiH. We have a political set of possible solutions for the Council of Ministers of BiH to maintain the picture that there is a Council of Ministers of BiH which is the executive body of this BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We do not have a government that has any basis, which should be the government of experts, which would deal with the economy, a government that would deal with, as well as any other government in the world, issues that, quite 117 naturally, are intended for one such body. Because of that, of course, there is always a double sense of dissatisfaction, which is the authority that is obliged to propose laws is not even able to come before Parliament in normal procedure, because the trap is always in double, I would say, the competences of political parties, MPs and people who are delegated and sent to represent this political environment in so-called. The Council of Ministers. Why is that? It is possible when co-chaired by Mr Mihajlović comes out and says he is behind one law, that dead cold MPs, no matter what part, refuse to vote practically, behind which is the man who came out on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH with the proposal, and that no one is asking the question of trust in that government, because by nature things, such serious laws as are part of the Madrid Declaration, part of the entry into the Council of Europe of BiH, for which there is a general political consensus that it simply becomes a natural process in relation to parliament and government. The government does not, in fact, express any political relations in the BiH Parliament. It expresses political relations, political parties, which are out of touch with what is reality and reality in the BiH Parliament itself. Otherwise, it would not be logical to disqualify the BiH Council and its proposal for one of the strategic laws for entry into the EU and on the realisation of the basic, fundamental interests of the citizens of BiH at the last session. As far as the information we've been getting is the most painful thing here is that it's about projects and taking care of people coming home, and it doesn't really matter what. The process... as strikes, as a spontaneous return and as, even worse, a spontaneous departure from BiH, is aware of leaving a country that does not offer any basis, to see what these are, in fact, strategies, what are the possibilities of developing this country and what is, in fact, the security of economic, social, educational and whatever you want in every part of BiH. There is nothing in the BiH Council of Ministers' report. So I ask that it be very clear whether or not we have anything less than this obligation that I want to propose to the PSBiH House of Representatives. As MPs, we are obliged to ask the Council to supplement its report, at the very least, with very clear statistical indicators. Last time I showed that there is a Statistics Agency and that they cover economic development statistics in BiH or... to cover actual data on the responsibility of individual ministries and the competence of BiH state institutions in certain areas. There are parts of the Report that are very transparent, very correct and that should be supported. Where it is said in parts relating to the functioning of individual ministries, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economy, it is very well seen how debt is being serviced, for example, but there is no evidence of what the consequences of BiH's economic development are today, because it is simply not considered a necessary BiH Parliament. The second part that should be complemented in this report is the part that concerns our obligations that we have taken over. It is not good for the BiH Council of Ministers to give us tasks, vice versa, that Parliament should present tasks to the BiH Council of Ministers. We asked the BiH Council of Ministers, not waiting for the autumn strikes, yet, as I would say, a deep summer, not late, but at the beginning of the summer. Four MPs were asked here, both at home accepted it, signed by Mr Žigić and Mr Banjac, asking the BiH Council of Ministers to set up at the first possible autumn session, the BiH Council of Ministers according to what is called the 118-economic strategy, what is the social status of the BiH population and to come out with the proposal. More than two months ago, we received confirmation from the chairman of this college and from the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Kurtović, that the BiH Council of Ministers accepted this and that it will come out here before the BiH Parliament. To this day, there's no word on that in the report. There's no word in the program and I'm asked the next question. The BiH Council of Ministers can continue as a political body to act in these relations of forces in BiH, but the BiH Council of Ministers cannot propose laws if it cannot give a picture to Parliament of the economic and social situation in the country.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2736	I ask you to bring an end to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2737	That the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Kurtović, as both co-chairs went to agree their views on the speeches they gave us, to give us a clear indication of when they would come to the BiH Parliament's agenda of what they had committed to, instead of what we heard from the strikes, to hear something here about the real economic situation in BiH, which must result in laws, regulations, decisions and the real role of the Council of Ministers of BiH and entity governments. I have recently heard that two entity prime ministers have said that we are among the most developed countries, that they bring prosperity to BiH. Since there is no one but these two entities, because BiH is composed of two entities, I understand their optimism in that part of their jurisdiction, but I do not understand in any way that the BiH Parliament cannot find the conditions that the BiH Council of Ministers submits a report on what is important to BiH itself.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2738	Thank you very much, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2739	Just one sentence. I fully wish to express my confidence in those people who believe that this will not remain, however, a deaf age and that this Parliament will not allow itself the luxury until it simply creates the conditions to assign the BiH Council of Ministers to do this programme which it has set out and corrects the report to the extent that it is necessary on the basis of the discussion of our Parliament, but I would like to draw attention to one fact. It is said here that BiH is indisputable from two entities and three constituent peoples, it is true by the Constitution, but it is true, in reality, that entities have not complied with four years of the law or the ustav, neither one nor the other with the BiH Constitution. It is true that in the BiH Constitutional Court there is a case of the constitution of the people. It is true that entities have not completed their tasks, entity assemblies and others, it is true that in BiH all the peoples, so all citizens are in an unequal position and therefore I would like to draw your attention, that is the political, economic and social obligations of Parliament, and that we already have 21 or 138 proposed laws in the process, should lead to this level. Let the Parliament order the BiH Council of Ministers, accepting this report, along with any corrections necessary to simply come up with one single piece of paper, which is to say whether the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament can ever overcome such an economic and political 119 situation unless this parliament is ready at all to overcome such an economic and political situation, unless this parliament is ready to accept the laws offered by the BiH Council of Ministers, in line with the OHR until today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2740	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, given that we have a large report and that we have a further presentation of the co-chair and oral presentation of the second co-chair, it might be logical to give more than five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2741	Ten minutes, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2742	I'll fit in in ten minutes. I think, ladies and gentlemen, who has carefully had time to read Mr. Haris Silajdžić's statement that this is a basic document based on which the BiH Council of Ministers should leave. I will now read what he has offered, first of all, Haris Silajdžić. I quote a part of Mr. Haris Silajdžić's presentation that delegates the BiH Council. First says: A key problem in the functioning of the Council of Ministers, key is not related to its personal composition, e.g. I believe that almost all members of the Council of Ministers, so not all of them, but almost all of them have, have tried to respond to the work and... are fulfilling the obligations that stand before the Council of Ministers. I also believe that most members of the Council of Ministers, listen to the majority, have the necessary abilities, professional and organisational, which make them competent for the areas in which they work. The basic problem, because Silajdžić speaks only of problems, because we want to know that the Council is unable to fulfil its obligations restricting the Council of Ministers of BiH in the exercise of its competence and responsibility and in a conceptual deviation from constitutional provisions governing the position of the BiH Council of Ministers, its functions, its functions, composition and attitude towards other BiH institutions. According to the Constitution, everything should be like I said. In practice, nothing was set up that way. Can you have a black finding from this sentence? On the contrary, a new concept of the BiH Council of Ministers was created in which the elements of the parity and veto were incorporated, which in practice led to a blockade in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. Apart from the Constitution, relations were transferred to the BiH Council of Ministers, which were designed for the BiH presidency and the BiH Parliament. I quote: “Many questions have been waiting for the Council of Ministers to come to the agenda for years, because when the agenda is drawn up, it cannot reach consensus that this issue is included and discussed at the Council of Ministers”, that is, what we have been pointing to for years, and not just this period in which they submit the report. “I do not claim that, in certain cases,” hears the individual, “the members of the Council of Ministers at least occasionally or at least partially do not show some independence in decision-making, especially when it comes to the preparation of the bill.” In this House, Silajdžić, as chairman, says "the esteemed Parliament" in the context of circumstances, it is not all clear who is the position and who is the opposition. I am the opposition in Parliament, and I am not the opposition to BiH, 120, but to the BiH Council of Ministers, led by Mr Haris Silajdžić, and it is not true, gentlemen, that no position is known and who is the opposition. The election result, i.e. the parties verified by the BiH Council of Ministers, is the CD Coalition, the Slog and HDZ Coalition. Everything else is the opposition in Parliament. Now the thesis to which certain opposition parties have been dislocated is now falling, with partial support from the international community to move the fundamental culprit out of this parliament and that was the SDS. It turns out that we lied to representatives of the international community, because, behold, gentlemen, for a year and a half, you've had most of it and it hasn't gotten away from it, or at least that's Mr Silajdžić's assessment. However, "there are parties and MPs here who declare themselves to be opposition," I don't know who he means, I guess the CD Coalition "because they are composed of multiple parties. They are very critical of the BiH Council of Ministers and that is understandable because it is a key function of the opposition, but we still do not live and do not work under normal conditions and so it would be realistic to expect a constructive approach from the opposition. Under this I believe that it would be logical for certain legal projects that have been submitted to them to expect the support of those who are in the discussion in principle, now look at the addition “particularly when this is transmitted by TV, it is precisely those principles and objectives that are contained in the proposals of individual laws. Yet there is no such support, because some opposition policy holders are trying to play the card, the worse, the better." The conditions in which BiH is located, at the very least, is not correct because in reality this exchange reads: the worse everyone, the better for them, I don't know who he means. Here is the co-chair of Mr Silajdžić, I am the opposition, I am not near the bag as is close to Mr Silajdžić since '91. A year. I'm not close to corruption, crime, an affair that, unfortunately, the international community points to. I'm not in a situation to pass laws, or I wasn't among those who fueled corruption and terrorism in BiH, etc., a classic replacement of thesis. In the end, which is very important, which is particularly important, which could derogate the spine or... The Dayton Peace Agreement is, Silajdžić says, "although entities predicate for key competences in achieving economic reforms and implementing reconstruction and reconstruction programmes, it has been shown that they cannot do so if they act separately, usurp the competencies of the BiH state and its institutions". I think this is the key to Mr Silajdžić's presentation and it confirms my thesis that, unfortunately, while Mr Silajdžić is co-chairing, a project of reconciliation, integration, the reenactment of BiH's integrated functions, offered by the Dayton Agreement, will either be slowed or made significantly more difficult. So, gentlemen, you who symbolize the policy of unitaryisation and revision of the Dayton Agreement must understand that you must fight such a policy to make all BiH citizens better. I must say, perhaps sometimes not for a reason, Mr Silajdžić is a symbol of division, not a symbol of building trust. Maybe it's not a good excuse sometimes and it's not a good reason, but whoever wants to help BiH will retire if they want integrated functions to live. I want to talk about the report now. On page 10, although I think this is an integral part of the report, this exhibition says: the reporting period is characterized by the initial but real macroeconomic reforms of the BiH economic and social system. I am now asking you that people read the Dayton Agreement and really see what belongs to the entities, and what belongs to BiH as an internationally recognised state. Is this really the obligation of the BiH Council of Ministers? 121 On page 15, it says: a protocol on understanding between the OHR and the Ministry on the organisation of the return of SRJ refugees to SRJ has been prescribed. I think this should have been a little bit better explained and finally mentioned the project of the return of deficit professional personnel. I wish I was familiar with this project, at least as an MP. I have no idea, and most of us don't know what the projects are, and, among other things, the function and the role is to inform ourselves about it, and I will finally say that, as far as I'm concerned, I will not support the report. The additional reason not to support it is that Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihajlović step forward, which is why I will not support it, and unless this report is adopted today, regardless of the last vote on the BiH Council's trust, unless the report passes, the BiH Council of Ministers may, thanks to its work, thank parlament for its patience.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2743	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Interim Election Commission has respected my request to settle as an MP, so that I step forward as a member of the BiH Council of Ministers. I think it is important at this stage of the debate to say a few words, to try, in some ways, to direct the further course of the debate, to make it as constructive as possible, to get one competent assessment of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, on the one hand, and on the other hand, which may be more important for all of us, in order to get one relevant assessment of this House on the Council of Ministers' Work Programme. The basis of the BiH Work Programme is, among other things, contained in the work programme. Through this programme of work, in fact, it outlines the position of all of us sitting here and our relationship to Dejton and to the Peace Agreement and to the Constitution. I therefore believe that today, in front of you and this material that is the report and the work programme, they are creating a competent basis for discussion. It seems to me, if I may say so, that today we are listening to some debates that are in the previous debate, these issues have been settled. Many discussions are similar to pre-determined discussions and these issues have been absorbed. It is obvious that in many elements today we continue to fight for the same political goals only by different means and that objectively slows down the whole process. This is a place where you have to talk about these questions as well. Whether it's for or not, let it show through the work programme, whether it's for this law or not, whether it's for this kind of solution or not. This shows whether we are willing to work in harmony with what the people have ultimately given us confidence. When it comes to requests for the BiH Council of Ministers to be a government, they are in many governments, but let's ask ourselves whether the BiH Council of Ministers would have had a better result if it had been as a government, according to that system, the parliamentary majority, the prime minister and the rest. What could the BiH Council of Ministers do on the ground? We must bear in mind what kind of state we are and how we came to be. Part of the people were also in the first assembly of parliaments that could not be called in any way. We were gathering in the cold rooms of the museum. The BiH Council of Ministers sat in the Museum twice and once in Lukavica to work in a more normal way today. I think that if a single liquid is important, then it is that trust is established, however, that it is much more professionally done. Some things that seemed impossible to happen three or four years ago, maybe they're not 122 spectacular, are today normal things. Every day, 50 Srbin and 60 Bošnjak and 30 Hrvat who work together enter the foreign ministry, and they could work better, and these are some things that have been done. I would ask you all to consider one dynamic of the overall process. I understand the starting points of both opposition and quasi-position and position with undefined status, but I would ask that, however, we try to maintain the minimum necessary to maintain the stability of the system. No one will be relieved if it turns out he's right if the process doesn't go forward. I think today's debate will help us move forward. I say we're not a country like others. 36 foreign soldiers here, two thousand foreign police officers, look at how many international representatives are around us. There are more experts translators than we have in domestic institutions and the Council of Ministers and others. We'll show if we're for Dayton or not through a debate on the Work Programme. Dejton has its gray zones that he hasn't fully regulated. They can only prevail if there is a willingness in this parliament to find a suitable solution. I don't think that anyone sitting here is meant to be something that doesn't work, but to find a way to make something work, that's one approach, and the other is, there are very clear demands of our approach to the EU. We no longer have room for some big political decisions. We made those political decisions. There is only perhaps boring bloody technical work left to adapt our system in accordance with the White Paper's requirements, to adapt 23 areas. We cannot satisfy the existing legislation of some of the essential requirements of international conventions. These are all elements based on which this work programme is made up as a particular compromise that can draw us forward. I want to say one more attitude. It is often discussed the structure of the BiH Council of Ministers, a consensus decision. I believe the consensus is not a problem with the decision of either the BiH Council of Ministers or the ministries. We basically have, say, the foreign ministry, a college with 20 to 30 issues, all decisions are made exclusively by consensus. Consensus, in itself, is not a problem when there is basic trust between people and when there are identical goals to be achieved. The structure isn't in itself a problem. The problem is the three disadvantages we've had so far that were most pronounced right after Dayton, but they're still extremely present. The first is the lack of political will, on the one hand, or the too many political will to do something, on the other hand, and both can be devastating at certain times. The other flaw is the lack of institutions. We're looking for all the institutions again. We have no one to copy these materials until we've done these services sitting here. Parliamentarians gathered, they would have sat down, but no one had to keep a record at that time. The important thing was the lack of institutions that today, however, there are more. You have in these materials today a report from these institutions that, however, some work has done. The third thing is the lack of knowledge that is extremely present in institutions, especially in combination with the first two factors. I think there's progress in all these aspects. I would like to ask my representatives, my colleagues and colleagues today to base ourselves on the report and the Work Programme, because the Council of Ministers of BiH is an authority implementing policy in accordance with the guidelines given to it by Parliament. I expect we'll get clear guidelines in that regard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2744	Thank you very much. 123
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2745	At the beginning of my discussion, I'll tell you an anecdote about another Kardelj. Drug Kardelj met a schoolmate from elementary school who returned to agriculture after a long time and complained that Kardelj had a problem with the fact that a cow was very ill. He asked Kardelj who, of course, knows everything, could suggest anything to him. He said he had a good idea. Put a couple of days on the left side of your head and come to me after three days and let's see how things go. After three days, his friend came and said the situation was getting worse and he said: now put the linings on the right and it will certainly be better and in five days you come to Kranjska Brdo to see how things are going. The other wasn't long. After 15 days he met him and asked him very curiously what happened to the cow, and he was all depressed, unfortunately, the cow died. Then he said to him “a pity, so I had wonderful ideas”. About what's going on around the BiH Council of Ministers reminds me of this anecdote and I often listen here, and for this speaker, a series of very, very good ideas, but things aren't going well, it's obvious that something should change. However, suggestions that come and are spoken behind the pay phone seem to be going in a completely wrong direction. Some of these, in my deep conviction, have replaced thesis. If the Council of Ministers' proposals do not go through and parliamentarians do not accept them, then it seems to me that in the world of practice, not that parliamentarians are resigning, because they cannot resign, but that the resignation is submitted by the Council of Ministers, i.e. by the government or by parliament, voting no confidence in the government. It's an approach that's in the world. We fight to enter the world through Europe. Now we should really analyze where these good ideas are and what those good ideas are offering. I'll try to direct the direction of thinking to one side. It seems to me, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm now talking about the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. When it comes to the BiH Council of Ministers that he often chokes on his ideas what he should do, that these ideas not only exceed their competences, but also overcome the possibilities and I would underline what Mr Prlić was saying earlier, it seems to me that he is in that context, and I will paraphrasise. It's a matter of competence and it's a matter of understanding reality and what kind of state we are, first of all, is the Council. It is as it is for him to look for solutions and create projects, and then, by overcoming his powers, going beyond what the Constitution has defined and the Council itself is in a situation that these decisions cannot go through, it is simply choking. It's not just about changing the organization, these or those powers. I wouldn't want to compromise them with those ideas that were said here by the two co-chairs, and we find out one devastating fact that the two first ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers are completely intrusive about key things, and it's a bit surprising that, in the framework of the report on the past work, they bring up some new ideas on how it would be, what if it were. Anyway, it's not acceptable. What I really cannot accept and what I would like to underline here as part of my assessment of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers is the fact that, in my opinion, there is no coordination with Parliament. As part of the preparation of the legislative projects, I am convinced that there would be greater coordination with MPs and parliamentary groups on the very draft of the law, in the course of its preparation, so that many things would go easier on Parliament itself. 124 On the other hand, I think there is insufficient coordination between the BiH Council of Ministers and the entity governments, and then they intertwine jurisdiction, whether the entity is in charge or is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers. I think that there must be coordination and it is certain that, if there is a takeover of competence, and when it is to the harm of the joint institutions, as Mr Silajdžić has underlined one or two things, and they refer to the RS, that this is an object that can be analysed, that MPs are the ones who need to be informed of all this. I am again looking forward to the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers will be established under the BiH Constitution and that it is an obligation that must be done by the end of the year, and then it will be by the end of the year. opportunities for each resolution minister and for the entire ministry. There will be opportunities to discuss their concrete results as well. To aim, I won't say defence, but in some ways it is the BiH Council of Ministers, I think we MPs should, and we should have in mind what it is they can do and what it is they can't do. I think calling and calling them for what happened here today until noon, I think it's not really big, it's not their fault, it's not the result of their poor or good work, it's more the result of the entity's poor work, because for economic issues, as you know, they're in charge, they're competent and they're in charge of entity governments to a much, much greater extent than the BiH Council of Ministers. Finally, I would like to underline, with certain reserves to the report that we had the opportunity to get before this session, and I can say that there are a lot of things, in the circumstances that have been done, but I am stressing once again by worrying, indeed, worrying about the approach of the two first ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers, and that is proof that there are many things that are wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2746	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2747	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have today's report by the BiH Council of Ministers on the work during the 8-9 months since this BiH Council of Ministers received the trust of this BiH Parliament. Unfortunately, we are in one situation that we must clearly separate two things. We have a report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, a report on the work of individual ministries, and we have as a referendum by Mr Silajdžić as he looks at all this and how he imagines BiH and how he imagines further functioning. We have to separate these two things and discuss them. We can't discuss that in a package. I don't think the Council of Ministers is fully behind this, and the Council of Ministers has sent us a written report and I think that's how we have to consider it. If we're looking at the BiH Council of Ministers report, I'd say a few things. I would agree in the part with Mr Spahić, I would not comment on that. I think certain figures, certain indicators, can be excluded, not 125, I say, from investments, etc. who were able to be present here and that we could give an assessment about it. That's why I'd like to say a little more about the Ministry of Foreign Trade, or the Ministry of Foreign Policy. The report has been given quite exhaustively, however, I think that some things are not clearly highlighted, or some things where the BiH Council of Ministers is responsible are not fully defined in BiH and that we are significantly lagging behind, or should I say, a major external trade deficit is being created that can no longer be tolerated and that will lead us to a catastrophic situation. I think one analysis must be made, it is said, in one place to form a database, etc., but one analysis must be made, especially relations with each country, because we are now in such a situation that some countries are privileged in BiH, and on the other hand, we are entering a terrible deficit and that with these countries we have, on the other hand, a visa-free relationship with BiH, and on the other hand, we must, when we enter that country, have to look for a visa. That's one example, and so I think we need to do a more detailed analysis, and in that sense, I think we need to take some measures. I think the foreign trade ministry and the BiH Council of Ministers must adopt measures on foreign trade. I wouldn't explain them any further, you know what that is. They must take measures to speed up the establishment of free zones, industrial zones, etc. They must take measures to improve investment work abroad. They must take measures to improve export services and other export flows of BiH, measures and protection system in the function of improving export flows, and in particular what we are lagging behind are measures and creating ambience in the area of registration for improving export affairs. We say the world is open to us. That's not true. It's total protectionism. We say, we have preferences with the EU. Do a little analysis. What do we have preferences for? We've got the building, we've got the casting, we've got the... Run an analysis further with other states, what we've done. What relationship are we in? We return again, beside our technological resources and others, to the balvana, to live, ore, digging, etc. Is it the creation of an equal relationship with other countries and the creation of one environment, that this economy that was created for a far larger market, our market, thank Bog, is what it is, with this standard, even less. With what the state has not done, domestic economy must at least 50% participate in the reconstruction of BiH's infrastructure, but mostly foreign firms are involved, tendering is being prepared so that only foreign firms work and we wonder why these people are standing here. They're standing because they're out of work. I think there must be more work to be done on that plan and more comprehensive work. I'd like to make another comment on the Foreign Affairs Ministry report. I think you should give a more detailed report on the coverage of the DKP network, one structure total, etc., that, however, we know that we have that because it is not exactly given and I think that there must be far more work done to improve the situation on that plan. It is according to the Report, and with these remarks and what should be done, I say, in these conditions and conditions as we have worked together and what Mr Prlić said, although I wasn't in the last session, I think that, however, we are doing better, we understand each other more and more, with a little bit more willful, we could pass more laws and today that law could have been passed that there was a little more will or that we sat down there when we had a break and talked among ourselves, as people, I think we would have ended it. 126 Those were my remarks on the report. As such, I, as an MP, would like to say, with all these remarks, and accept you as some transitional solution, because there must be an amendment to the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers, probably reconstructions or the election of the new Council of Ministers, but we will see how we will deal with this by the end of the year because it is also foreseen in the plan. As for Mr Silajdžić's exposure, I have a few things to say. I've known Mr Silajdžić for a long time. He took part in the formation of the party in '90s. and '91. He participated in the government as BiH foreign minister, participated in the creation of an independent BiH, participated in a total of our conflict that lasted as long as it lasted. He participated in the concept, adoption and signing of the Dayton Agreement, and now I would say he went out with a platform to revise the Dayton Agreement. I can understand that this speaker can be used as a single party, that there are political options and political considerations on certain matters, but that it is going in a deep project, a revision of what I believe is defined by the Constitution and the Dayton Agreements, is inappropriate from the Co-chairing Council of Ministers of BiH, and I don't think that's the first time. There are many times when press statements appear in this regard or in public, public debates. I don't think that and that way of stepping up doesn't contribute to trust, it doesn't contribute to convergence, it goes back to majorisation, it creates what someone thinks BiH wants to be. We must return to the original principles as this BiH and that BiH, which is BiH, are formed, can only develop on these principles.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2748	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2749	First, let me say that some of Mr. Rakić's thoughts, especially when it comes to foreign trade, registration, in order to agree with them, are necessary. I don't know how clear I was, without what we're saying today and this work programme has no investment. If there's no investment, there's no job. We can agree not to be poor. We will be if we don't do it today. We have a responsibility ahead of us. As for this second one, Mr. Rakić said that I participated in the conflict, it is a euphemism for what was happening in these areas. I believe I took part in the defense of this country that was attacked. Mr Rakić also expressed his opinion that I was here with this presentation, which is mine, immediately to be understood, that I have presented the programme of revision of the Dayton Agreement. I would ask Mr. Rakić to say which part of me I'm looking for a revision of the Dayton Agreement. I have listed, on the contrary, some places where the review is carried out, but not in the direction of any integration, but in the direction of disintegration of BiH, not in the direction of integration, but in the direction of disintegration of BiH. Not in the direction of our integration into Europe, but in BiH's disintegration and exclusion from European flows. I've listed these examples, there have been before and they're in both entities and I've talked about them in public. Therefore, given that this is a very important, serious topic, the revision of the Dayton Agreement, I would ask Mr Rakić to say in which part, in which part of my presentation I mentioned the revision of the Dayton Agreement and in what way? 127
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2750	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2751	The SDP expressed its view and attitude towards the work of the BiH Council of Ministers at the last session, and I now want to give a review of some of the exhibitions that Co-chaired by Silajdžić dedicated to the opposition, especially this part, since we received the written presentation, is easier to read. On page 5, however, it is not clear to me, however, why these political parties and their leaders, who in principle support positive processes, normalisation of the situation and reintegration of BiH on the basis of the Dayton Treaty, do not support concrete legal solutions that are going exactly that way. The second part, not to read everything but just to say what is "that it would be logical on certain legal projects that have been delivered to them to expect the support of those who are in the principle of discussion, I stress this in the principle of debate, especially when it is transmitted by TV who are loudly advocated by those principles and objectives that are contained in the proposals of certain laws, yet there is no such support, because some opposition policy holders are trying to play on the map as best as possible, etc. I want to comment on what I read. For these qualifications, of course, you know that in these qualifications I have recognised my SDP party, these qualifications should be reviewed by the list of laws the Council of Ministers has proposed to Parliament, the debate on these laws in committees and at Council meetings, the contribution given through amendments, the content of these amendments. Whether they meant improving or mined the text of the law and finally simply voting on the laws would have come to the right conclusion whether these qualifications stand. We should also take a look at our debate and push for the adoption of the Work Programme. Those who follow Parliament's work, not only on the media but... while it is passed on to the general public, I think it will come to the conclusion that these qualifications for the SDP do not stand. The example is finally this last law that we have now declared, and let the Council of Ministers of BiH look at it, who supported the solutions proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers and who did not, although the law in the BiH Council of Ministers agreed, where representatives of the parties made up of the BiH Council of Ministers are sitting. Co-chairing Silajdžić, as an MP, not as co-chairman, not in front of the BiH Council of Ministers, has proposed a full list of laws and I now see that he expects a constructive approach to the opposition and support, even more so, expects written or oral proposals from MPs. I've been thinking a little bit about this approach. I can't come to this conclusion that he came to, if it wasn't a reaction to the proposals of those laws that it was opposition, that it wasn't a constructive approach, that it wasn't the realisation of the principles we stood for, because these laws hadn't yet come to the agenda. Otherwise, if otherwise approached, then the opposition would act as a former socialist advice to me, and I, believe me, have had experience in that, which had led previous discussions on laws and gave its suggestions and remarks and provided advance support to the laws in the delegate structure. As far as I know, in this parliamentary 128 democracy, we need to work differently and thank Bog, and we do and the opposition has the possibility, and the SDP has the opportunity to say its word about these laws when they come to the agenda, and as far as commitment is concerned, we have expressed that in the adoption of the work programme. By the way, when an opposition party such as the SDP, in the regular procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, proposes legal solutions, then we cannot get what the Rules of Procedure provides for our conclusion, then we cannot get a response from the Council of Ministers of BiH and their relationship with these laws. Now the question is, who's constructive here? The attempts to go with the laws, the legal solutions of those problems that we thought were burning, and I can't, and that in the BiH Council of Ministers around them they can't agree, are here for this speaker, I don't know what word to say, but here they're characterised as unnecessary and we're challenged by the right to go out in such a way, without prior consent with the bill's proposal, you remember that well, and we think that this is where we can try to reach agreement. We are who we are, whether we agree or not, but this is the Council of Ministers of BiH. In our presentation, as an opposition, we received suggestions that the constructive opposition should act and that its approach would be accepted as constructive. Since the SDP is not acting this way, it turns out that one of the, or the main remethylative factors of successful work or good co-operation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I want to say right away, even here in Parliament, at a session that we left, is said: see how fine we do when those who left leave leave. When we look at it and you read these suggestions given for the desirable action of a constructive opposition, you cannot ask yourself where it is. As far as the Council of Ministers' Work Programme is concerned, we will give our relationship when we discuss the Work Programme of the BiH Parliament, which is scheduled for the agenda of this session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2752	I was looking for a replica, but here, to say that someone mentioned earlier that there was not enough cooperation, cooperation, and that's true. It is also said that these laws are not yet on the agenda, so when they come to the agenda, then we will discuss them. As far as I'm concerned, gentlemen, they're on the agenda, as head of the BiH Council of Ministers, from the opposition even before, since February '97. year, I seek BiH institutions, BiH laws. Today we are in a situation where the international community has to tell us that we need to have it to have a normal country, to get investment, to treat us like a normal country. It is true that this opposition party has been acting more constructively lately. Where were you in '97? The year, where you were in '98. A year? Why at no time did no one, in writing or verbal terms, say anything about my suggestions. I don't expect from those who, of course, are on the other side, they have their own political option and it's perfectly normal to me. I am talking about those of whom I expected to assist the BiH institution project, the law in BiH. Otherwise, how could it have happened that today discussed what we were supposed to discuss in '97? A year. 129 In the BiH Parliament, that is, within the coalition, since '97. We've been discussing these problems for years, but we've been lonely here. Those who are here remember very well. In the building of the DPO, in the spring of '97. For years, we've been discussing the boundaries of what we're going to discuss now, of course, and I hope to pass the law as soon as possible. The reform of the justice system, '97. In the spring, so I gave everyone the drafts of the law or the drafts, whatever you want. Never a word. It's not just this speaker. It is that whoever has this initiative, who wants to do something, should be helped in some way and say: maybe this is good, maybe it isn't, and I even offered not to make them my proposals, to be anybody's proposals, just that BiH has them. We are in a situation today, not only will we not enter Europe, but we will be the last in that composition because we do not have a minimum constitutional framework. Whoever's responsible should be recognized. We are responsible to the citizens of BiH for this, only one country has 69% of investments, which means we do not trust international investors, and without it there is no economy movement. As for these people sitting here, the ones who've been helping me since '97. years to put this on the agenda, they did their thing and they gave me support. Why do you think that's on the agenda today? That we went to a front and told the international community in '97. Or '98. For years: that's what we need, it would have been on the agenda a long time ago. Why do you think he didn't? Because there was no active support and that's why it's only today on the agenda, we're at least two years late.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2753	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2754	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have a habit or a desire to replicate, in principle, because I think the replicas except that the cameras are working so effectively, they don't have any positive result for the session either, but the man can't, without reacting to Mr Silajdžić's concession to the opposition. It seems to me, and this is the association on a television show last night, when one union leader, not agreeing with the prime minister, said "best I should resign". That's how it seems to me about all this, if the opposition resigned, everything would be in Parliament extremely, and this country would seem to get all the laws it needs, etc. However, it is not, unfortunately, so. This looks to me like disciplining the opposition, and it won't be much use, because this opposition can't be disciplined in that way and it's not the only problem here the opposition, and don't report by the Council of Ministers and results, and what you haven't been able to do is address the opposition, because that's the replacement of the thesis. We here cannot accept the assessment that we are not helping BiH institutions, as it is said, to live, on the contrary, everything we do, MPs from the SDP, and I myself, are doing exactly that way. The fact that we disagree or have different opinions or visions of legal projects, programmes, etc., that's another topic and it can't be judged in this way. I, for example, and the SDP to the end with Mr Silajdžić, agree, when he found out in his statement that the BiH Council of Ministers was in a blockade, when he found that they needed changes, we said, and Mr 130 Tokić said, we did not vote for this Council of Ministers for personal reasons, not for personal reasons, but we did not vote because we also claimed that he would not succeed in realising the project for which we chose him. Mr Silajdžić proposes a new law on the BiH Council of Ministers. We agree with that, too. I'm not sure if we agree on what kind of law that should be. Mr Silajdžić speaks of a constructive opposition. We are very constructive, but only in terms of exactly what we were talking about, which is the proposed legal solutions which, according to us, are the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement in the jurisdiction of this institution and which should serve the development of BiH institutions and the country's integration into what we are constantly talking about. Do not let this report on the BiH Council of Ministers and our assessment that the BiH Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil its task, as a fault, shifts to the opposition, that is, I repeat, replacing the thesis.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2755	Dear gentlemen, MPs, I will use my parliamentary right to replicate, simply, the allegations that I cannot agree with, both as a man, and as an MP in this high house. Why is the situation the way it is, we got a political lesson today, not a report. I can't accept such a concept because it doesn't lead anywhere. Here, gentlemen, there is no harmonised BiH's legal political concept as a state, because some say there should be more of it than there is in the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, and others say there is less, and both are equally dangerous for BiH, and both participate in the destruction of the BiH state and threaten peace in these areas. We have shrewdness at all levels, simply, no one will accept it as a fact, and that's true. Why do we have it? Because of this, we have the first Council of Ministers of BiH, and this has been seen nicely today, it does not work even though they claim to function well and remarkablely, and it was best seen from Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihajlović's exposure. Two diametrically opposite exposures, two total disagreements, talk about the situation that lies there. What do I think about Mr Silajdžić's exposure, and why do I want to speak to him personally? Mr. Silajdić, I think you've spoken in an extraordinary manner. There is no need for me to say any more sentences except that your opinion on the whole BiH territory is heard, and it will be clear to all what are the controversial and neural points for the work of the authorities, as well as the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as the House of Representatives of this Parliament. I would like your exposure as a whole to be transmitted on all BiH televisions. I only think that then it will be quite clear what is going on and what is happening, and I think that it should be translated correctly to international organisations and representatives who are monitoring Parliament's work, that is, and you have the right to your own opinion and I will never challenge it, the other thing to which I will or can accept it. I would like to accept all good ideas, sir, but what cannot be accepted and which is neither in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement nor with the BiH Constitution, I will never accept. What isn't it? Here's one thing, and if there's no one else, that I don't take the time, I'll never accept it. You would like, sir, instead of the Council of Ministers of BiH, a government based on the parliamentary majority, it will never be. It won't be because they don't want it, nor can they accept the other two constituent nations here in BiH. They can't accept that. No matter what we think or don't think about it. There can't be majorization here. There can be no restoration of the former BiH here. We can accept and build the Dayton BiH, the way the world has recognised and what the world has approved. We can accept that. I want to accept it and I want to participate in such BiH. 131 I think it is high time, and I sincerely ask you, in terms of creating further trust among the peoples of BiH, not to mention aggression. Whose aggression and who? Who is this creator, to go back there to say that RS is a fascist creature, created by the aggression of the SRJ on BiH? We want that claim to stand somewhere in some kind of document, no matter what that document was called and we want to build trust. You mention aggression again, so you're one of the supporters of alleged aggression, I've attacked myself. If you have something against other countries, spare that Serbian people in BiH, if you think we should live together and if you want to make a constructive contribution to living together in these areas. I really want you to do it, because it can only help to start better quality building trust in these areas. Europe. Europe can only accept us as it has recognised us. She recognised us in Dayton as two entities and three sovereign peoples with entity powers, with the rights of the people, and we have to go to Europe, and that's the only way we can go to Europe. There's no luck if one people in this area disagrees with the concept of the other two peoples, then there's no luck. If two nations disagree with the concept of one nation, there's still no luck. We need to sit down and make a deal. It's the only way we can come to a compromise and what we all want, and that's lasting peace. Peace is not born or created by quarrels, and we will never be reconciled. I would like to make peace and never to go back to the time that was 1990s in these places, because of that, first of all, I think that the Council of Ministers of BiH, which we are discussing today, had no competent rapporteurs on the report that he delivered, because they were political talks, not clarifications of what was written to us. I can't accept such an approach. I reacted as chairman and directing your discussion, please speak about the report, and there were political platforms in action. I simply cannot accept it as an MP, and, of course, that I accepted it as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2756	I think we're off the agenda here, because as far as I can tell, this is about the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. I'd like to replicate the chairman...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2757	Ambassador.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2758	To you as an MP, that we have received a political one-off report here, a political lesson, not a report on work. The whole debate goes towards the fact that the presentation of Mr. Co-chairing Council of Ministers of BiH and Mr. Svetozar Mihajlović is an integral part of this report, please, it does not say anywhere here. Please, we are here today to discuss the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and here as MPs in Parliament should assess the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. I cannot ask myself as 132 MPs what we have done to create a legal framework for the BiH Council of Ministers to do this in accordance with the Constitution and the law, because the Council of Ministers has only passed its law which is unconstitutional or has done so by the BiH Parliament. The parliament passed the law, thus creating a brake in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. I cannot look back on the exposure of some people who had previously said that the BiH Council of Ministers led to such an economic and social situation in the country. What did we, as Members of the BiH Parliament, do to get BiH into the Council of Europe? Will entering the Council of Europe make this country better. I believe, I hope, as a man who lives from his work, that by entering the Council of Europe, BiH will be better, and we have not passed any laws that will allow BiH to enter the WE. We've been sitting here all day, and we haven't made any decisions. What have we done here today, and we are all prepared to criticise the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I am not their lawyer, nor do I want to defend their work, nor do I perform at all with positions, any defensive positions of their work, but I want, as a man, to talk about whether we are really all completely clean that we can only talk critically about the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH. A moment ago Mr Jadranko Prlić said: give us instructions, create conditions for work. Did we give them any instructions except to criticize? The easiest thing to do is just criticise, and nothing concrete but talk about Mr. Haris Silajdžić's speech and get off the Work Report. Please, give it, as Parliament, to assess what they have done and whether they should have done better and if they should have done more and give them some instructions to continue their work until the BiH Council of Ministers is reconstructed. We know the BiH Council of Ministers won't be able to stay like this. We must amend the law that we have passed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2759	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2760	You just said the same thing earlier that I stepped away from the Dayton Agreement, and after no example, I didn't hear, and I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2761	I said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2762	What an example, please. The BiH Council of Ministers' composition, is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2763	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2764	The BiH Council of Ministers' composition is not in line with the Dayton Agreement, but, as you explained, that the other two nations will never allow it, it is political will. If we talk about the Dayton Agreement, parity is provided for the BiH Parliament, the PSBiH House of Peoples and the BiH Presidency, not the BiH Council of Ministers. Look at the Dayton Agreement, I'm not stepping down from the Dayton Agreement at any given time. You said I put out a political platform, well, of course I brought out 133. Of course it's politics. I'm talking about the BiH Council of Ministers, the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, if I didn't talk about politics, it would be a little weird, of course, that's my political platform. I want to talk about it. I don't see, if we're going to have a Council of Ministers like this, I don't see what the election is, somebody explain it to me. We can immediately agree from one nation two, from the other two, and from the third two, and we have the Council of Ministers of BiH. What's the election for, then? Let's not waste our time in the election. I didn't step down from the Dayton Agreement at any given time, and politics did. You want to talk about something concrete. Will you individually do what anyone has done, I'm very ready? If that's what you want. If you want to talk politics, I've made my point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2765	I won't take advantage of the opportunity, I said only your speech is heard in that original form as you delivered it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2766	Mr. Chairman, I used my right to a replica to get the right to a word. The MPs here seem to have a way of getting the right to the word and now that it would not be just an excuse, I do have a replica, Mrs Muminagić said that someone said, after leaving the SDP, it is now easier to work. I would only like to remind the lady that after the MPs of the SDP came out, I went out for this pay phone and expressed my disagreement with the situation that was created and they had to come out and I asked that the vote be repeated. I shouldn't do that, and I belong to the CD. koalicija. They should know that they're matching the situation, what happened, and they need to know what happened after they left. It's that replica. I would now ask you to continue with that word of yours, because I tried to use the replica to get to my right to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2767	I have nothing against your right, but you have to understand me, MP, that two more people have already reported for replicas and two for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2768	Then take it as my objection about how you conduct the session. I fully agree with Mrs. Čolo that today we have made no decision in these four hours, no conclusion or we have talked about the Council of Ministers' report, but we have repeatedly replicated at the level of political platforms. This is the BiH Parliament that needs, above all, to create conditions for the lives of people in BiH. This is achieved by voting the law, it is achieved through cooperative work, and it is not achieved by political platforms. I'm asking you to keep your word. I'll ask Mr. Tokić to give me his word. I'd go back to what we're talking about. We're talking about the BiH Council of Ministers' report. If we were to look at that report technically, we would have to accept it and I would tell you why. The report has counted the activities the BiH Council of Ministers has done. However, we do not have an objective standard to assess the report, because there is no programme of the BiH Council of Ministers on which to do so. I agree with those who are trying absolutely to measure this report. On an absolute scale, we 134 would have to show the satisfaction achieved, but then we should seek reason for satisfaction. I think he's in Mr Silajdžić's exposure, no matter how much he's challenged. The BiH Council of Ministers' ineffectiveness is in the unconstitutional constitutionality of the BiH Council of Ministers and is indicated. I also have a constitution here saying that the Council of Ministers of BiH should be established and I hope that by the end of the year we will do so as ordered by the BiH Constitutional Court. However, we must say some positive things. We have to say that today, with the report, and the work programme, that's a good thing. Next time, we'll be able to measure what they did with that program they suggested if we adopt it. I'd like to remind all of us of another indiscipline. We say we do not adopt the laws of the BiH Council of Ministers. We don't even adopt the laws of MPs. I, as I recall today, have rejected a law that has not been proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. It was proposed by the SDP, if I recall correctly, by the Police Force Act. We only adopt the laws that the OHR requires, and that's why I have a constructive proposal. No personal change in the council would contribute to the improvement until it was agreed with the Constitution. Since we have a program, let's give the council a chance to work until that change is made and let's give the legal part they've proposed. Let us accept what the OHR has given, as proposed by OHR, he has proposed 23 laws. You've got this. In the legal part of the council's programme, we accept what OHR has put in place as a basis for further work so that in three months we can look again for a report and see what the Council of Ministers of BiH has done of it, and what we have paralysed here in our own way. Not always until the BiH Council of Ministers' fault. We need to see how many laws we passed on our own initiative, and how much we brought on the Council of Ministers' initiative, and how many we only accepted for what OHR ordered. Let's accept that reality that we still need someone to give us the program that we're going to be working on. I'll remind you of one thing. We had one of my proposals when we discussed the BiH Central Bank's report, which unfortunately did not go through. I don't complain that the proposal didn't go through. The proposal said about this, that Parliament would propose to all BiH institutions and entities to find the elements that with 30.09., the conversion mark would be the only means of payment. He didn't pass my proposal. As I recall, Minister Prlić said the proposal cannot be accepted because it is technically impossible. However, the proposal is probably not from my head, but the governor of the Central Bank of BiH has ordered it and, you see, it is technically possible. It's working now. Let's be pragmatic. Do not say that reality, that we have this condition and that we must accept such a political organisation of society, and in the Council of Ministers of BiH this state. Let's be constructive and do what can be done. My suggestion is to focus more on the Work Programme than on the Report, because objectively we can't evaluate it, but the Work Programme can be objectively evaluated, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2769	Dear ladies and gentlemen, several times the SDP has been mentioned here in this context to clarify some things. Ambassador Mrs. Muminagić, yes, she said both in public and on the air, Mr. 135, the chairman of Banjac said in a public statement that, when the SDP comes out of this parliament, it seems to be doing better and it is a better atmosphere. Nothing is a much different statement than Mr Silajdžić's statement, which he saw all his problems in the SDP, in an opposition that allegedly did not support him. We're proud of that fact. We are proud of that fact that we have never supported, nor have we been prepared to support this concept in which, gentlemen, to remind you of the same concepts, the same political party only personally in the other composition. It's not Irfan Ajanović, it's not Momčilo Krajišnjik, it's not Mariofil Ljubić, it's Pero Skopljak, Banjac and Mr Halid Genjac and we're against the concept. The fact that someone at a given moment seems to be doing well for the SDP to lean over here or lean over there, there's no reason. We have the same attitude towards praises both Špirić and Mr Silajdžić, but there is something else, and that is true. Silajdžić, when he speaks here today, can impress someone who listens to him for the first time. For ten years Silajdžić has been talking on a principle that can be illustrated in two examples. To go to Dayton, sign Dejton, brag that it was due to the Dayton Agreement, and then say "Bleek" afterwards, it's a horror of one, it's against BiH, etc. Accept the composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, look at the stenogram, when we pointed out that it was anti-constitutional, '97. For years, Silajdžić voted and discussed it. Of course, the memory is short, the media is powerful, no problem today is we can't talk because it's against the constitution. What did you gentlemen vote for? What did you vote for the anti-constitutional law? Is there any personal responsibility in all this? In the inspired presentation of Alma that can go to some old communist times of self-critics, I do not accept self-critics, we are responsible, we have proposed to Parliament, and you voted against it. Six months ago, there was a Law on the BiH Council of Ministers that envisioned resolving these problems. You voted against the law, because this is how you liked the BiH Council of Ministers. Basically, that's the truth. You like the current state. You like the existing concept of action of the BiH Council of Ministers and you will fight again here, and try to tell the people I defended the Bosniak interest, I defended the Serbian interest and I defended Croatian. You brought BiH into agony and therefore, gentlemen, the SDP asks you to change the concept to the BiH Council of Ministers, so Silajdžić will leave. He does not need BiH with this kind of performance. It's not necessary. With him, BiH does not have adequate progress. He said it in the presentation, very clearly. But he doesn't feel responsible. konsekvenca, moral act is resignation. No, I don't. Everything is ready to antagonise, tell BiH nice stories about BiH, Serbian interests, go home and maintain the existing state. The SDP is against this report because it is against this state and whoever is for this condition is frisking it to Mr. Rakić in statistics Mr. Spahić wants to change. You can statistics... your statistics were here today, they'll be tomorrow and there'll be months to come. There is no statistics that will be able to fix the bad situation in BiH. Statistics can only show in a more drastic way the chaos we are in. Part of the responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers, but the same concept is also in the Federal Parliament, the same concept is in the BiH presidency and the Federation of BiH and Parliament, from the same centres of power, you come and act to preserve the status quo. The SDP is therefore against this report, and we can taxively remind you that we have pointed to this situation at every stage, at each session, and we have proposed concrete solutions. After all, isn't it embarrassing that the SDP has proposed to Parliament a greater number of laws as an opposition than the Council of Ministers has proposed. The Council of Ministers proposed seven laws, including the one to extend the old passports, including that in 2000 it comes. That's all the Council of Ministers submitted to Parliament. 136
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2770	Mr. Ambassador, can you answer one question for me, please? You can't. Well, you, as a civil party, sir, replica. Mr. MP, I don't want to respond here to your provocations, because they're famous here. You often take pictures to provoke, however, who can you provoke? You make me happy, you will inspire me to listen even more calmly when you speak, because I understand what you think and then it becomes simple for me, but I ask you, as a civil option, as one who equally respects Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, what have you done, sir, when a people are called Fascisoid, where are your public address? What kind of civil option is that when you accept it, you make up for all three peoples, and you take it quite peacefully that one people here who is constitutional in BiH is being humiliated at the lowest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2771	I didn't mean to replicate, but since Mr. Tokić predicts being an entertainer, not an MP, I have to answer him, he is unfortunately the opposition, and position, it is Mr. Silajdžić and the opposition that Nikola Špirić is, because he is the opposition and himself, unfortunately, who is Mr. Sejfudin Tokić? I have to tell Mr. Sejfudin Tokić that I know that he is reluctant to listen to the praises of Haris Silajdžić about his party, and I know that he would rather be secretly seen with Haris outside the cameras, but I must say that there are no more citizens in BiH who are ready to cheat on Mr. Sejfudin Tokić. I think Sejfudin Tokić has the least reason for me to object, to speak, but I cannot understand that the opposition, opposition or SDP pleads itself to be an opposition in parliament. There's an old Mr. Tokić who's very instructive, so he says you're breast-feeding like you're gawking, where happiness is for the herd, and our flock knows who it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2772	The thick archive would be, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if you were to make a list of all the epithets that you were worshiping each other and that you were a Fascist people and that you were individual fascists and that you were extremists and that you were thieves, criminals, etc. What can be realized is that all these ten years, no matter what the questions, everyone has their own year where they ask me where I was in '92, '93. and '98. Silajdžić, I don't know, '97. A year. We have been on the point that there is no collective responsibility of fascist peoples, nor is there any right to say that it represents an exclusive Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak people, and I did not expect that after the tragedy and fascism of war in BiH, I would be obliged to explain again to some that this logic, that this totalitarianism should not be spoken in Parliament. If you remember, Mr. Chairman, I reacted in a way that I said that no one has the exclusive right to represent the people, because the SDP claims to represent a democratic Bosnian Herzegovic option in which both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak are in these benches today, but primarily people who want a future, who want change. In this context, we reacted, and there, when someone tried, including Mr Silajdžić's statements publicly and publicly and everywhere, as he presented it, the universal judge, who is willing to judge everyone just not himself and today I reacted to it as we respond to this. With Spiric's discussion, if he's satisfied with his own discussion, I wish him very well.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2773	I'm going with a bit of a late replica. I'm sorry that Mr. Silajdžić came out, because he's replicated me and I thought we'd stop at that, but again in his discussion he's made some claims, and it has to be made clear. Before that, I'd like to replicate Mr. Tokić. Tokić says the SDP MPs represent all three peoples, I agree that we represent all three peoples, but just say that you represent one entity. When you have MPs in the RS, then say you represent the RS. Here in Parliament when you have MPs, then say in this House you represent the RS in 14 MPs. I'd only go back to two things. In my discussion, when I spoke to Mr Silajdžić, I tried to be tolerated and to say some things within the framework of international qualifications. I said conflict. I didn't add a tragic conflict, although I don't think he's tragic, but he's tragic, and that's how the international community qualified him. So, I'm sorry Mr Silajdžić came out. He keeps pulling something deeper out of it. The following things I said that Mr Silajdžić, having repeated twice that no one is knocking down his thesis on the revision of the Dayton Agreement, I will only read what constitutional provisions are and what is the responsibility of BiH. I've read it a few times, and I'll read it again. It is foreign policy, foreign trade policy, customs policy, monetary policy, as set out in the 7 BiH Constitution, fin. BiH institutions and international obligations, policies and regulations for the immigration of refugees and displaced persons, the implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with Interpol, the establishment and functioning of joint and international communications, the regulation of traffic between entities, air traffic control. Article 3(3) found that entities in their negotiations and agreements, with agreement, could establish institutions at BiH level and bring and transfer certain powers to the joint bodies of BiH and that is final. Mr Silajdžić tells us “I have submitted 138 laws”, I would like him to find here only a constitutional basis for what he has offered them and how many of these laws have constitutional basis. Mr Silajdžić, with the laws offered, wants entities to be reduced to local communities, is a revision of the Dayton Agreement. Mr Silajdžić wants all authorities to come to the government, or the BiH Council of Ministers. By moving in, the government thinks something more will be done. There's nothing more to be done. You need to get the responsible people on their own level to do what needs to be done. I listened this morning when Radio Fern said, one question was how many in the Federation of BiH today have more officials than in '91. Or '90s. When the municipalities are taken, the cantons, and all this when it's collected, how much is it? Unfortunately, you gentlemen have adopted a socio-political structure in the Federation of BiH as it is. That's what two people wanted, that's what you wanted and you did it and it costs so much. Thus, the Dayton BiH was formed on this principle, therefore, we can only work on these constitutional principles and on the basis of what is defined by the Constitution of what is BiH and not repeat today the tenth time of the two entities and three constituent nations. 138
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2774	It was said that we should work under the Constitution. What's read is not the Constitution. It is part of the Constitution, but what has been read is enough to implement, let's say, legal regulations and I thank Mr. Rakić for reminding me now, implementing international regulations. It can result in at least ten more laws that I didn't mention, and that will one day be. Reading and restrictively interpreting this provision of the Dayton Agreement, which has been read, BiH comes down to the district. If it was the Dayton Constitution, then it had to be read as a whole. So let's say, the provision in Annex 7 that talks about the property rights commission, which goes to the state level, if you've read it, there's a little detail, then you should have read it. Article 2, etc., and not just one restrictive interpretation which, of course, is your opinion. It is my opinion that BiH needs as many laws as any normal state, not because of what I need, but precisely because we could, in some ways, normalise the state of the country and be normal and consistent with the countries around us and the countries around the world. We're a member of the UN. The BiH state must have as all other normal countries have. That's right. It is true that it consists of two entities such as the United States consists of 50 states, as Germany also consists of so many federal units, as well as BiH, it does not mean that BiH is a district and that they are entities of the state. I understand, it's a key misunderstanding between us and I'm glad we're talking about it this openly, honestly, and I've been doing it from the beginning, and there's a problem between us that we understand each other. The problem is understanding the Dayton Agreement. Anything else, this is cosmetics, that's the problem. You understand BiH as some sort of buckle between two entities that will eventually die. I will fight as long as I live for BiH to be what it says in Dayton, a state that continues its existence in accordance with international laws, states. I don't like much from Dayton, same as you, but the fact is what it says, if we're going to interpret it, but if we don't agree on the interpretation, then I'll accept what the authorised interpreter says, and that's the Office of the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2775	It seems this is how Parliament must function when it is chaired by the opposition party and has two controversy in the work of Parliament itself in bringing it to the Council of Ministers of BiH. Of course other opposition parties have the right to identify the national compositions they represent, and I would like to say that there are many other political parties between 81 and 18 present here, regardless of which coalition and alliance they also represent citizens of different national, religious and social categories. If this is carefully analysed, this mystification should finally be removed from the agenda. It will not benefit the opposition parties or the ruling parties, because this House is, as I have repeatedly mentioned at the beginning, a home that was elected by citizens, a council in which people were elected on the basis of proposals from parties, alliances, etc. and it is not smart much, it is not particularly smart in what is being achieved, replacing the roles of the House of Peoples with the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament. There's a misunderstanding about what's called the so-called misunderstanding. The general principle of consensus that leads people in decisions only to general interests, and we have repeatedly discussed this in the voting technology implemented in the Interim Rules of Procedure of this House, which, 139 in fact, has put into place often, rather than agreeing on the best legal solution, we are confrontation on a national basis, not on a party and political platform, which is completely natural. If there's no difference in political approaches, then it's completely pointless. For the House of Peoples there is both time and place and way that everything of general national interest, in a certain way, is resolved by constitutional solutions. I would suggest that, of course, we can open this debate about the character of the House, but we'd better focus on the issues that are on the agenda. As far as statistics are concerned, since I'm about statistics and statistics is about the content of life, you know. Probably statistics... and I could talk some anecdotes, but they say statistics are the biggest lie. That it would now be contrary to what I asked to enter the BiH Council of Ministers' report. You know why he's running away from statistics. When statistics show up whited-out, it can't be proved that, for example, there are 5,000 people employed in BiH in some part of it, and in fact 148 people are employed, but there are said to be establishments, institutions that exactly say how busy people are. Then it's said that people's wages don't have to be like billions of people. We received in Sarajevo a family from the High, whose mother gave birth to the world of the sixth billion, symbolically, which is also the statistical data of the world. The world's statistical data is that a billion of those six billion with one dollar on this globe is earthly as its living costs. The data is that most of these people are either unemployed, disabled or waiting for work, etc. The data is that despite the political ambitions of individual BiH pretenders, however, representatives of such trade unions and such political parties from all over BiH came here last Tuesday, 25. Whether or not someone likes it or not, it's another thing and if someone's actually overcoming that obstacle internally and as anyone looks at who, it's quite a problem that we can open up in another way. This is why I wanted to react for other reasons. This was an introduction and now it's my replica. I'm happy when I can define the position, when we, here, chair, as the president of the opposition party, are trying to define what the introduction is and what the finale is. My presentation was quite accurate, and I think some representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers understood it, and some do not want to declare it, some have left. I called on Mr Kurtović Mirsad to answer the question I asked on two three occasions on behalf of not four MPs, but on behalf of both peoples who asked the BiH Council of Ministers to say what they thought about the economic and social situation in BiH. Mr. Krutović is not here to answer. I hope that once at 12 or 15th of this session, he will have the opportunity to answer that question. I suggested that in the report, the additions that the report would in some ways make the report more acceptable, clearer to the public why there is a dispute in the powers of the BiH Council of Ministers and the dispute of entity governments that is not to be spoken of openly. Finally, I said that the exit to BiH at this time that report as many others have accepted, Mr Rakić is very well, precisely being complemented by how much 140 of this is possible by our debate and by the assessment of individual ministries from the Council itself, after the discussion that we accept work and accept responsibility and adopt the laws that OHR is undermining, based on our conclusion, agreed with the Council of Ministers of BiH and what has become a concrete programme of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2776	Who did you replicate it to?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2777	That's what I'm replicating those who are trying to do instead of the report and the work programme that we're committed to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2778	This is now the point around the report, not...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2779	But the report implies the obligations of the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament itself. When we say that something has not been done, we will say that to be done, it is the role of Parliament to tell the Council of Ministers, not the Council of Ministers that, I pray for support in Parliament, and in the end the reconstruction will come, whether we want it or not, and don't forget, we are here because of the law, we are not simply making it impossible for Parliament to work, and the technology of the lead session is a direct prevention that we do not have 12 extensions of the same session and therefore I would suggest to the Mr Chairman to prepare, too, at the next session or during this session of the decision-making session. We have the report, please vote on the report. I ask as an MP, I have the right to do so by the Rules of Procedure, to accept it with the additions and amendments we have made, and if we accept it, then turn to our work and program, and let the reconstruction come. It will be a reconstruction wanted by Mr. Banjac, who was in opposition,... whether or not the Constitutional Court of BiH must be respected. There's such an institution of good fortune.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2780	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2781	The chairman, fellow MPs, My Replica at the discussion of counterpart Tokić and at the statements, held in the discussions of the chairman Banjac and fellow Špirić. I reacted today and now I will try to say in a calmer atmosphere that we are MPs here representing voters and political parties, the people represent our colleagues, delegates to the Council of Peoples. In the follow-up to the discussion, such calls were heard again, and I repeat something that I failed to finish today. Supporting, I said, the appropriate responses of fellow Tokić 141 to earlier Parliament meetings, when MPs called on the people, I now, in a more peaceful atmosphere, also call on my fellow Tokić not to call on the three peoples anymore and that SDP MPs determine whether they are a supranational, transnational, anti-national party and that, if he asks others, and quite duly, first of all, not to call on the people. I expect him not to call on three peoples. On several occasions, I warned my fellow Špirić, in fact I made certain remarks to him because of, in my opinion, unacceptable qualifications and the characterization of the people of MPs. I am taking this opportunity to express my disagreement with his words, which he referred to at the expense of counterpart Tokić. Finally, actually, this is also the main reason why I went out. I ask the question to sejfudini Tokić, as colleagues in Parliament. What did he mean by the ruling concept? Representatives of the SDP often mention the ruling concept. I've been trying, here's a long time, to understand what's under that thought, and I haven't been able to reach its contents. In some ways, my colleague Tokić helped me when this ruling concept, because it settles differently, said it was a concept thanks to which Banjac, Skopljak and Genjac sits here for the presidency. Political communities and political authorities have never been ruled by concepts. Political communities are ruled by or by people, and then we have communities like we have or rule by laws, of course. Banjac, Genjac and Skopljak are not based here on any ruling concept, but on the basis of, as far as I know, the will of voters and the law on BiH elections. My replica, first of all, is for this reason, with the invitation to really avoid calling on the peoples and, also, now not to identify who this remark refers to that we do not call on the Dayton Constitution, in the way today's invitation and I call on the chairman to respect it in terms of amendments are not accepted, and they are based on the Constitution and they are expected to react because they are not accepted because they are in agreement with the Constitution. I expect that we are acting in this way to make amendments and laws and decisions that are indeed in the Constitution and to reconsider decisions or proposals that are controversial from the position of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2782	I, Mr. Chairman, will, however, return to this item of the agenda that we are discussing, because I think that in the discussion it has gotten away from this point. Namely, at the last meeting of the Representative Council, a question of confidence vote was raised on the Council of Ministers, and I was one of six MPs who were abstentioned during the vote. I'll explain for what reason, but very briefly. One of the basic reasons was because I expected, somehow, to hear the Ministerial Council report, and then, as an MP, to give my opinion on it. I'm glad I did. At today's session, we heard reports, we received material in writing and what was particularly impressed by me is that Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihajlović's exposure, in fact, from this very exhibition, it is seen how the Council of Ministers works, and now that I am in a position to vote again, it would not really be a dilemma whether I would raise my hand or not, as far as it is concerned, I would certainly not be. 142 However, there is one other thing, I was restrained, I must be honest, and to the end I must say both for the facts and for the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, therefore, concerning the legality of the Council of Ministers, that is, the way it was chosen. However, there is one other thing that really deeply, after all these political discussions, the sightings of this high institution, which is also foreseen by the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, is really being brought into one great dilemma and I must be honest and express one great, great pessimism, above all, to the political atmosphere that is ruling in the Representative Council. I assume you're all considering Article 5, point 4. The BiH Constitution which regulates the question of the Council of Ministers, because it would be perfectly logical that after the Law on the Council of Ministers has been passed, it would be advised that the law has an absolute foothold in Article 5, point 4. The BiH Constitution that Decidantly regulates the way the Council of Ministers is elected. I am, indeed, a skeptic, if, after a new year, the political atmosphere is represented as it is here today, that we will find it very difficult to come to the election of the new Council of Ministers, and this will greatly define further work, not just the Representative Council, but the complete Parliament of BiH and other joint institutions. I will only be here, and with this I will end up reading the first sentence of Article 4 where it says that the BiH presidency will appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers to take office after it has been confirmed by the House of Representatives. I think you all know what I'm referring to. It's really going to be very difficult to come up with one solution and, I mean, I'm going back to this first discussion that we all have to show a lot more good faith that this council and joint institutions in BiH are starting to work, because I'm afraid this is the opposite of Sizifu's work that they're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2783	Dear gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues, I would like to say on this occasion that we have embarked on one, in my opinion, a very strange job. We evaluate the government's work, we evaluate the work of the Council of Ministers, and we never gave him the task or the program, we never set up a program, and we're willing to evaluate and say whether it's right, whether it's good, whether everything is done or not. We MPs are currently in a position to assess the work of the Council of Ministers and see for yourself how we behave. Those who communicate with the BiH people, with the BiH television audience, also have the opportunity, I mean MPs, to hear the opinion of these people about the work of Parliament. The way we work and the way we evaluate the work, it seems a bit unsuccessful to me. Don't mind me saying it too much, but, well, I have the strength to say it. There are no institutions in BiH that work in a satisfactory manner. There is no one alive who is satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers and there is no one alive who is satisfied with the work of the Assembly and no one who is satisfied with many things. But here we need to know what's good about it and what's not. It cannot be said that the Council of Ministers did not put forth efforts, put forth efforts, could not be said that 143 The Council of Ministers did not come before us with a series of proposals, even agreed which we refused and said not to accept. We can't say that the Council of Ministers didn't ask for a way to do something, but it's quite clear that the Council, as it's drawn up, can't function because neither does the Assembly, here, can it, and it should decide on someone's successful work. I think that in the next period ahead of us, in this short time until the new year, it would be very important for the Assembly to set a programme for itself and the BiH Council of Ministers. That this programme is a minimum of what brings us into Europe and that we all do this programme together and get into these European integrations, try to find a way for this BiH, to put this Bosnian-Herzegovina people in a position, after this great debacle he had, to live a more quality life. Expecting that the way we are and how we're doing we're going to take someone into one organized whole is illusory, gentlemen. I think there are people here, and at least that's what it seems to me, who think we're gonna tighten, we're not gonna accept anything, someone's gonna take us to Europe, and somebody's gonna take us there because, for God's sake, we need to survive, I don't agree, and I believe they won't. It's not Europe, and neither is the world so sentimental. I think that the report, at least the part that concerns international relations, that is, international policy and the one that speaks about the Stability Pact deserves maximum attention and that is the value it has done... and that is the value that we could, in a sense, be proud and satisfied, although not all of us have participated in it. My opinion, regardless of all the criticism, no matter what dissatisfaction this report is to be accepted, to set tasks for the Council of Ministers, what the BiH Constitutional Court has brought that the Council of Ministers must enter into reconstruction and organise itself in a way that is constitutional and I personally think that the report should be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2784	Dear gentlemen, honourable MPs, on the occasion of the Ministerial Council's work, their report, has been seen here again today, there are illogicalities in the functioning of the Council of Ministers. In a concept where he figures, at a concept that's anti-constitutional. The Council of Ministers should work as one team, however, it has been seen here that it is composed of several individuals who do not even want a good team, and this same team should provide prosperity and satisfaction to the citizens they represent. With regard to the work of the Council of Ministers, on the creation of legal frameworks, or bombing, so to speak, of the House of Representatives by the Council of Ministers with legal normative acts in the direction of rounding up the legal framework of BiH, unfortunately, we have seen here a few laws, which, let's say, is not that this case on computers might not even have... perhaps we shouldn't have other laws that are not the precondition for us to enter the Council of Europe, and those that matter to us, the Council of Ministers, as a fol, agree, and here come different views on the Law of Asylum and Immigration. 144 With regard to the Report, I would have a suggestion, and this is also a question on the 15th article, it is about travel documents, and it says: information on the issue of passports in the RS Representation and point 10, information on the issue of travel documents for RS citizens staying in the SR Germany and Austria through the RS representation. I'd like to know what time this was going on. Are there any more of these RS representations that betray passports there without the DKP and our embassies doing so? What is this period and how many passports and passports have been issued? Are BiH passports or others and are there legal frameworks for the functioning of such representative offices that betray passports? On page 13, as regards the work of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, it concerns citizenship. 10,090 requests for refusal of BiH citizenship were received and 750 individual applications were delivered. I'm interested in what period is this, and is it in the reporting period? I have an answer to my parliamentary question where it says from the formation, or the functioning of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, somewhere around 1,000 citizens have given up our citizenship and I think it should have stood here to find out how many newly received, or naturalised, new citizens of BiH, it's probably a little more difficult to get that information, but it should have been made known that we don't have that information, no matter what this commission is going to do, but we don't have information about naturalised citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2785	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments After hearing the Report of the Council of Ministers of BiH and taking into account all the laws that we had to consider, and which they had adopted, I have one proposal, suggestions or requests, as you will be able to interpret it. When making the law by the Council of Ministers of BiH to make sure that these laws are made up by taking into account at every point of the law on the interest of one entity and another, that the interest of one entity will not distort the interest of another entity and that it takes care of the interests of all three constituent peoples, that the law does not form a point so that the interests of one nation are achieved at the expense of another people and vice versa, because if they were to pass laws that will respect all these facts and our present reality I believe that each of these laws would not be so controversial and so many objections and so many problems with the adoption of these laws. It is a small benefit from those laws that are passed, which cannot be put into office. These are dead laws, inefficient and, you can say, very bad laws. Respecting our present reality, not going back into the past, into the reality of the past, these laws that are being formulated today cannot be based on the laws of the past. They must respect our reality and post-day reality. So far, we have had the opportunity and the situation to say that many of the laws that have been with us at the alignment have had a lot of objections. The amendment to every law was very much. During the review and these amendments, the BiH Council of Ministers often disagreed and could not agree on these amendments. So, none of these laws that we have adopted so far, and so many who are currently on the scene, have, during adoption, led by people who participate, cared about the interests of all and whether this law will live or not. It doesn't matter the number of laws. This is where they say all the time how they've prepared a large number, 123 laws. It's not a 145-bit number of laws at all. It's about the quality of the law, and it's about the law that's going to work. If we're passing laws that we can't implement in reality, then we haven't done anything.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2786	I don't have any more applications for discussion. Thank you very much. I am concluding a discussion on this agenda point and putting the BiH Council of Ministers' report on the statement. I would like the Secretariat to determine the number of Members present in the Chamber. 27. Is it still 27? Keep an eye on the door. Please, I'm asking you who's in favour of accepting the Council of Ministers' report, so who's in favour? Of course, with the supplements. So it's 28. One's here. So 15. Who's against it? They're three abstentions. Does anyone have any objections to the process of voting so far? There isn't. We now have 30 present and we vote on entities. Now we have 28 and now 2, that's 30. Every decision is made that way. By entities. Who's in, RS, 4. Federation of BiH, 13. So there's not enough number. So, the report's going to a match. The voting procedure is like that, please, if you need, thank you very much, let's go. Who said we'd continue on the program. We are not discussing, Mr Špirić, the programme of the Council of Ministers of BiH because we have no right to do so, nor will we discuss it. We will discuss the BiH House of Representatives programme. Just listen. Ad... Report on the request of the SDP MEPs to issue passports to a foreign citizen, Abduliu. You've got the material. You've all got three different reports, only three of them you've got. A report on this problem and a report from Mr. Minister for Civil Affairs and Communications, a report from Deputy Mr. Rečica and a report from the Council of Ministers of BiH. Well, it's a good thing the others didn't send the reports, so we're going to take it up quickly. I suggest we go in the next row. Let us first discuss the report of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because we asked them for a report, and then from the resolution ministry, to take equal from both the minister and his deputy. I'll give you my word right now. Of course, I have to say in the introduction that, as far as I understand it, it's not satisfactory to ask for SDP, and it's probably going to be a reaction. I'm opening a debate and giving my word to Mr. Divković. Now they're changing names, that's not scary. 146 I am asking the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in this case, I believe that it will be co-chairing and that, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Rečica. All three reports or one?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2787	At this point, I will discuss the official position of the BiH Council of Ministers. Given the request we received from the PSBiH House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers of BiH has, I must say, considered one and another information, meaning, prepared by Minister Ašanin and obtained here last time and the information I prepared, detailed information on Mr Abduni's admission to BiH citizenship. The BiH Council of Ministers discussed this at its last session and analyzed both information, the following conclusions came to light. What you got today, I'll read it. The BiH Council of Ministers discussed information on the admission to citizenship of Abduni Mehrez, a Tunisian citizen submitted by Minister Marko Ašanin and Deputy Minister Nudžeim Rečica, with the conclusion that the information prepared by the BiH Council of Ministers has already been delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the following conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers have been reached. 1. To provide the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with information prepared by Nudžeim Rečica, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications. 2. To show the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that at the time of admission to citizenship, Mehrez Abduni was not evidence of a possible criminal activity appointed both in BiH and abroad, nor was he prosecuted by domestic or foreign judicial authorities. 3. That during the period 1997 it was not entirely defined by the legal system that regulated this area, and that therefore different legal interpretations of the rules on admission to BiH citizenship were possible in 1997. 4. To the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Assembly proposes amendments and additions to members 40. The BiH Citizenship Act, Official Messenger No. 13/99, in terms of extending the Commission's mandate to consider the status of naturalised persons and that the period should also be after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution and until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, with entities bound to apply this law. These are the conclusions of the BiH Council of Ministers after a detailed debate following Abduni's admission to BiH citizenship. I note that these are unanimously agreed conclusions and views of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2788	Is there any other need from the BiH Council of Ministers to speak on this issue? There isn't. 147 Gentlemen, you have received three different reports. I'm opening a hearing on all three reports. It might be good, if I may suggest, if the SDP is satisfied with the reports that have arrived, given that it seems to me that there is a problem with many questions from the search is not answered. It's a request. They're out they'll tell.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2789	Since my time has moved on, and we agreed to work until 5:00, so let me just say this for a second. We have sent a request, the SDP BiH sent a request on September 20th to convene a session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and we have explained this request and I will not, you all got that paper, I will not read it to you again. We asked for a lot more information and a lot more than what we got, so we're not satisfied with the information. We're not satisfied with the information. We are not pleased that from one ministry we have more information about the same thing, and therefore, since we have been declared as a country that protects terrorists and criminals and a country that has inefficient investigations following terrorist acts that are our daily lives, we are working to ensure that the competent ministries, the resolution ministries, the ministers and their deputies have to bear political and other responsibility for inflicting great damage to the country's reputation and all the serious consequences for the country. That's why we asked for detailed information and I repeat it now again, the request, the information with a tabular representation of the admission of all foreigners to BiH citizenship, began in '92. years by country of origin, according to the last citizenship he had before receiving in bh. citizenship, whether it has given up previous citizenship or has become a double citizen of BiH, whether it is admission to bh. citizenship committed in a country or abroad, of which authorities in the country and of which diplomatic consular representations abroad, according to which legal regulations and how much tax has been charged for submission to citizenship? What state authorities were paying taxes? In which time period the reception procedure in bh was completed. citizenship and after how long has BH passport been issued? 8. Time spent in BiH before admission to bh. citizenship of all foreigners. Nine. How many newly admitted BiH citizens live in BiH territory by entities, cantons and municipalities? Ten. How many bh. citizens live abroad and where, according to our DKP data abroad? 11. Display data on the age, full, qualified, property structure of new bh. Citizens, 12. Answering the question of how BiH's citizenship is affected by refugees around the world, Bosnian-Herzegovina refugees. 13. How many persons have BiH acquired by participating in military formations in BiH? 148 14. How many BiH citizens are also citizens of neighbouring countries of the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ? 15. What has the foreign ministry done to resolve political damage in contacts with the DKPs, with the governments of the countries, by linking BiH with organised international terrorism? That's our request.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2790	Thank you very much. I've got a little intervention, I don't know why I'm being challenged by the motionor, or the data searcher, I shouldn't have given my word. There was a dispute here. We didn't fight, but don't. If all the proposings of a particular act are asked for an attitude, then it would be my turn to give the word to whoever asked for the data.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2791	Under the BiH Constitution, it is the obligation of this parliament to regulate the issue of citizenship of all persons who have acquired citizenship by so-called. based on birth or naturalisation, after 6.2.1992. It is the constitutional obligation of this House. The High Representative adopted the Law on Citizenship by which a commission was established, in fact, an obligation to establish a commission that will examine all citizenship, i.e. all citizenship solutions, means all solutions on citizenship acquired by naturalisation. You know that the law came into force on 1 January 1998, however, that commission was not formed within a period of two months. According to our information, the commission was formed only recently and is obliged to examine, so all the solutions on citizenship issued to non-Citizens of BiH before 6 April 1992, which had acquired this right under then applicable regulations. The task of this commission is to do all that Mr. Bogičević asked for. Now, considering just this one case based on these two conflicted reports, I don't think that Parliament, I don't know what our competences are to discuss whether one solution to granting citizenship to a person has been adopted in accordance with the law or not? It is a solution that has been adopted in the administrative procedure. It's one final administrative act, against which there is no right to appeal. You know that against final administrative acts is a possible administrative dispute, but in front of a competent court that BiH does not have. I don't know if parliament is competent to question whether an administrative act, if one of the solutions to which citizenship has been assigned, has been adopted in accordance with the law. In my opinion, and I've been in law for 20 years, I don't think that's Parliament's authority. It's a solution made by the minister of civil affairs and communication. I do not know whether this solution has been adopted in accordance with the law or whether this Parliament is the one to question it. I think the commission that's formed should do its job. It should examine all the citizenships assigned to persons on the basis of detention, based on naturalisation under applicable regulations. To examine all these citizenships, and this commission has powers which are strictly defined by the Law on 149 citizenship, it has the right to confiscate citizenship if the adoption of that solution is against the law and let that commission do its job and let Parliament report that parliament could make measurement decisions, and not that one case that can be indicative and which may be, it may be really about terrorists, international terrorists, I really don't and I wouldn't want to identify all of us members of one nation with one man who, at the moment of his decision, was probably meeting the conditions or not meeting the conditions, but let them do so by competent people who have both legal knowledge and legal experience and let me present all these facts.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2792	Replication, discussion, good.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2793	What Mrs. Čolo said right up to the last sentence she said, I don't know why. As far as I know, this is about citizenship, not receiving into some people. I've never seen that exist in civil society for that quote last, it's probably a mistake but...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2794	I especially think because this man has received citizenship from the minister of civil affairs and communication which is Bosniak nationality and who has signed that solution and is therefore being identified with an entire nation that has nothing to do with it. All persons who did not apply for citizenship met the conditions for granting citizenship, such persons must be deprived of citizenship and the commission should do so, no matter where their citizenship was granted to him, whether in the Federation of BiH, or in the RS area, I do not only think that it was done in this area. It was done safely on the other side. Of course, regardless, anyone under an international warrant, under the indictment of the International Hague tribunal, should not, in my opinion, be questioned by the Commission at all...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2795	I have very carefully read the materials that initiate this procedure to request an explanation, the issuing of passports, or recognition of citizenship to international terrorists, Ambuina Merhez. From the materials I received in the meantime, it turns out that he was a member of the BiH Army, the problem here is much, much deeper nature than it looks. I don't dispute this argument that a colleague is saying it's a single administrative procedure where someone can be recognized or not be recognized, but that's not the point of the matter. The bottom line is that an international terrorist could have received a BiH passport, so whether an administrative legal procedure has been carried out here is an entirely irrelevant issue. In the context of that, I would ask the question here, given that it is 5 to 5 and I would ask that, Mr. Chairman, it may also enter as a parliamentary question. Not only is the BiH state, when the BiH state is recognised, although it is here, passports have only been issued by one part of the BiH people. That, too, an answer to 150 questions about who betrayed the passport of the first terrorist on planet Osama Bin Laden in '93. years in Vienna. A passport was issued at the Bosnian embassy in Vienna, the world's first terrorists. In any case, I ask that the current interior minister, Mr Husein Živalj, answer this question. I apologize, I had the lapus when I mentioned the name and name of the interior minister, in that context I mentioned the wrong name.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2796	Obviously, we did not read carefully enough, or we did not want to read the information carefully enough. The terrorist Merzet Aduni did not get BiH citizenship, but was given to Mehrez Amduni, who at that time did no crime in either BiH or abroad. You have proof of that in checking everyone, in all possible checks, and the procedure has been carried out in accordance with the procedure. In BiH, he never committed a crime. As far as the international warrant is concerned, there has been a dysfunctional international warrant issued by Interpol a year after Mehrez Ambuni's admission to citizenship, and Interpol BiH, I can tell you, has been doing very well its job, especially in the last two years. There are some things that are not for providing information, either at Parliament, or at a wider collection because of the secrecy of the data, he does his job, and that Interpol only in April 1999, means, a year and a half after Ambduni was admitted Ambduni citizenship, he received information that a particular country, in this case Italy, is being prosecuted, not because of a terrorist act, but because of the suspicion that he was smuggling money, cars or associations, has been aided by criminal acts. So there's no evidence that he was a terrorist at the time, and that was the focus of our action. Who can guarantee for any of us that within a year or two or three they will not commit an act that could potentially rob him of citizenship or damage to BiH's reputation. I'd like to say one more thing. Here, certain rhetorical structures are used as foretold, as a country that protects terrorists and criminals, on which basis, please. Based on a newspaper article, a terrorist of the world's caliber was arrested. Is there one proof, and did any government deliver that evidence to us, even this country that's looking for it, I'm not going to mention, did it deliver evidence that it's a proven terrorist? I want to formally stick to that detail, at the time of our admission to citizenship, we had no indication that a crime was committed, either outside or in the country of BiH. When we received certain indications and certain information, believe that internal affairs authorities, both Interpol BiH and the law enforcement authorities in the Federation in BiH, have acted on and there is relevant evidence. As for the finding of passport issuing... terrorists bin Laden, I do not enter that finding, however, I suppose Mr Deretić said this on the basis of, I must tell you, photo montages and articles in a magazine here in Sarajevo. All information, relevant information we have and provided from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, particularly the gentleman you called, shows and determines that this Bin Laden has never been issued by the BiH passport. The article you're talking about and the picture is just a photo montage.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2797	You're obviously giving me your word whenever you want, and that's good. I thought we'd finish this part of the agenda and end it then. I didn't mean to interrupt, no speech.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2798	I wish we hadn't gone into one trap, at least for the sake of those representatives of the international community who warn us about it, to defend what is not to be defended from doing more damage to BiH than the damage it has done. I can't believe there's a serious MP who thinks there's no such thing as damage to BiH and it doesn't matter. It's no problem, ladies and gentlemen, in this administrative procedure, but we just got out of one item of the agenda and now we're back again, from one ministry warn us that it would be good to read the information and the minister's assistant and gather information from the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'll read you what the minister says.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2799	That's what everyone's read. The only thing you can do is cut it short.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2800	I'd be begging Mr. Chairman not to go into the word but to follow the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2801	Well, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2802	What I'm going to read and whether I'm going to convince it's mine, I guess, right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2803	Then I'll cut you short when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2804	In that answer, it's said. It was found in the case file that all the evidence prescribed by Article 8 of that Act was not contained in the application for admission to citizenship. Points 6 and 7 of that Article stipulates that the applicant should, among other things, fulfil the conditions that he was not given a security and banishment measure of foreigners from the country or a safeguard measure to bring foreigners from the territory of BiH and that he is not convicted of criminal acts against the fundamentals of social order against humanity and international law and against armed forces. This evidence is not contained in the file. It's a report from the Department of Civil Affairs. Mr. Rečica's report is completely different, and these invite us to look at each other and it's not controversial either. The question arises, who has issued all passports, who and how many passports have been issued and who has been admitted into BiH citizenship, and it is not disputed that we have that information as well. The question arises, as it is a member of the BiH Armed Forces, on which the individual fought on the platform. Is this the platform we were talking about today, the reconciliation platform we were talking about, or are those TV videos of mujahedin fighting in the female region that we had, unfortunately, a chance to watch? Did these people have chocolate fillings that don't kill, or were they possibly behind them? Did these 152 people have their superior elders, and isn't it time for The Hag to be discovered for part of the BiH officials then? You see, for people from the RS, people are being brought to The Hag for functional responsibility. Who was the president of BiH then? It's not with my consent that someone's in charge. Who was the commander of the BiH Army? What did those men in that army do to you? Is there anyone here to investigate this so we can have a valid response to that phenomenon? That is why the international community is warning us, not because of whether or not the administrative procedure has been carried out, and that is why I am asking you to take this seriously because it is a great accident that someone outside has to warn us that this is happening. That is why I want us, as a serious parliament, to conclude that, first of all, BiH's reputation in the international community has been severely damaged and that the responsibility of the BiH state political summit is sought and that the conduct and actions of those people who were in the BiH military are being examined. I must warn you, you remember, there are no citizens of BiH who do not respond to the orders of Mr. Ejup Ganić, then a member of the BiH presidency, the only Jugosloven who passed through the list as Jugosloven, on the list of Yugoslavs, who issued an order that children of 18 years of age with delayed weapons be killed on Voluntary Street. That's why it's all about judgment. I think it must be a far-reaching message from this House than whether the procedure is respected. It's not like the commander of the army where Abdouni fought Abdounin't know what goals they were fighting for together.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2805	I don't know, what's said is really a complete newspaper to me, and I wouldn't say what I'm about to say if it wasn't for this predecessor of mine. I have to say something. There's a lot of hypocrisis here. What damage can BiH do after Omarska, Luke and everything else? Once an alleged man we don't know what he was doing or how he was doing, that's the great damage to which you insist with so much air and enthusiasm, gentlemen. I haven't heard from you about war criminals in BiH. What's up with that? What harm does BiH do?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2806	I think if anyone has the right to talk about what happened in BiH, that's what the citizens of the Bosniak people have. They were mostly killed in this war, which is, in the aggression that was in BiH. I'll tell Mr. Špirić next. I don't think it's time to say who's where and who he fought for in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2807	Gentlemen, this is not the point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2808	I'll remind Špirić only of the Srebrenica case in '95. And the genocide that took place over the Bošnjak of the UN-protected zone. A case of violence by RS warriors between Srebrenica and Milić, which now exists. 153
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2809	Five minutes off. After that, I'll give you both a chance to replicate. I'm calling on the president of the SDP Club to talk. I call upon the MPs to take their seats. I ask the Secretariat to establish the quorum and that we can work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2811	Ladies and gentlemen. I don't see much reason to be excited because Nikola Špirić did not defend any crime or genocide or terrorist act, regardless of who he came from, because these are acts that don't get old, but I simply have the right to say that the commission has to complete the work, to determine whether the documents are being destroyed, to determine whether it is true that there are still questions, as far as I know, according to the Foreign Ministry that terrorist Islamic groups are still training in BiH to perform on the battlefields of the world, asking us that people and the international community. Can we close our eyes on that? Why are you nervous? Why can't the commission examine whether there are elements for the UN tribunal for the conduct of gentlemen who fought in the BiH Army at the time? The tribunal will examine everything, I'm not afraid of anything. You all ask what you're interested in, but when you come, gentlemen, on the field where it hurts you, you're nervous, what's wrong with you? It's not like you chocolates shared others when there was a civil war, or your grenades were filled with chocolate. I ask that the commission complete the work, to examine, I have information that documents are being destroyed and whether there are elements for the UN tribunal and whether this is true that we have some enquiries that are still being trained in BiH for other areas. I'm asking the Ministry to answer me. I'm asking the Department of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2813	Dear colleagues, since it was a direct inquiry to the foreign ministry, we will tell you that the Foreign Ministry has made all representatives of the international community aware and members of the commission who have just begun to work, has been taking into account all the archives and all the documentation that exists in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which has been done since '92. A year, especially after '96. In the year, everyone who can examine whether such data is available and whether passports have been issued to foreign citizens outside BiH and whether there are people now declared terrorists, that is one thing. It's another thing. I must tell you that the Foreign Ministry has received several indications through diplomatic channels that it has training for foreign mercenaries or terrorists in BiH. Official memos, not to hold my word, according to the ministry, but in diplomatic contacts the last of which was in Russia a few days ago, Foreign Minister Ivanov literally told us these words: "In BiH there are training camps for terrorists now fighting in Chechnya." We're still investigating the case, and you'll be informed about it. There is one oral agreement, at the UN General Assembly, in contact with representatives of the SRJ, Minister Jovanović said "that corpses were found in Kosovo's premises or some people who had passports or ID cards of BiH were caught," that is, what there is, but there is no official letter to the foreign ministry in this regard and we were not obliged to give in writing or to contact the public in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2814	There's an intervention about the SDP MPs' club, so I'll give them my word as the MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2815	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, we have clearly asked the question to which we want an answer, and we have used that case only for the occasion to clarify a whole series of different stories, different information related to the issue of Bosnian Herzegovic passports. I do not want to list where all this information comes from, but for us it is absolutely no matter whether abuse is in Sarajevo, Banja Luka or any other Bosnian-Herzegovina town. In return, we received different information in writing today, and we cannot do so as parliament. Once we set up a Council of Ministers who wants to stay with the Council of Ministers, one of the ministers who wants to sit down and be deputy and minister of civil affairs, they will not respond together, but will continue to argue and give different information and sit down, it can't do that. That's why we don't accept that information. In return, in parliament, instead of discussing the essence, we get the constant need to go back into the past and antagonise ourselves, to get an atmosphere in which, if you allow, I will not deliberately mention the formulation, because I appreciate what Mr. Hilmo said, supposedly, we will all be represented here as protecting some collective interests and in the existing system is re-surgering. Therefore, the SDP Parliament Club is seeking a break that may take half an hour, an hour, we are ready to wait seven days until the next session that the Ministry of Civil Psols declares whether there is an answer to these questions. If there is no answer to these 155 questions, then we will launch a different initiative, because it is a shame that the Council of Ministers is ready to give three different answers. One answer is not the Council of Ministers, but writes the Administrative Service. This isn't the case for the Administrative Service. Gentlemen, we no longer need a partial response from Mr. Rečica, nor Mr. Marko, whom, by circumstances, the Ašanina who is not there, who is sick, nor the re-information of the deputy who legitimately steps forward of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Gather all that, gentlemen, if you can as a Council of Ministers, then give us information. If not, reconsider your position, and we are, as far as we are concerned, ready to discuss the personal responsibility of the minister, the deputy minister or everyone. So I'm asking for a break from the ministry, not a deputy, not an assistant, to make sure I can make arrangements on these 15 issues. Those 15 questions are questions for which this case is only a cause. It refers to the entire territory of BiH and if we cannot know in this country who is wearing Bosnian Herzegovina passports, then it is not only to win any wartime, not only in Chechnya, but anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2816	I ask you to deliver these questions again here, so I can deliver them, update them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2817	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDP MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2818	We've got replicas of two, so we're gonna give it a break, three MP interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2819	Gentlemen, I think there's some kind of abuse of verbal gymnastics. My presentation was the official position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was read on this issue, because, in a certain way, with full respect, or disrespect for the procedure, one information was delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH which decided to deliver another, and what was read was the official position of the Council of Ministers, not one deputy, not a minister, but the official position of the BiH Council of Ministers on this issue, and that official position I read to you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2820	If there's a replica or an intervention, let's get this over with. We will propose a conclusion on behalf of the Kolegijum and I think you will agree with that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2821	My personal opinion that if it were such serious questions, and so much unpreparedness today to get an answer to them, would not be a useful break that Mr. Tokić proposes. My suggestions would be that the BiH Council of Ministers and responsible resolution ministers and their team give answers to all questions by the next session, which they do not know or can not give answers to to write that they cannot give answers and I think that this way we could end today and that 156 next time we try without emotion and return to the past, even if it was close and burdening us so much, we could end this agenda point. My suggestion to ask for a complete answer to all these questions, whether or not to support someone, but globally all questions for the next congregation. The college suggests the following, no need to vote, I think we're all on the same path. We will send an updated letter to the competent ministry, on matters raised here, within seven days to respond, for the remainder of the session you will receive a call. I'm interrupting work. The seat's finished at 17.40.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2823	Gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you on behalf of the College of the House of Representatives, and I suggest we continue the work of the 11th session. The absence from this session was announced by Ivo Mijačević for his illness, announced Miodrag Deretić, Vito Rakić, Mara Perkanović, Zlatko Lagumdžija, Ljubomir Zovko and from the Council of Ministers of BiH Mr Svetozar Mihajlović. We have a sufficient number of MPs in the O.R., so we have a quorum, 22, we can work. I suggest we start where we left off. poslanik Mirković has one announcement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2824	Gentlemen of the College, I would like to inform this house that from today on two MPs of the Serbian Radical Party will act independently, outside the SDS Coalition. This is what I'm letting the College know about preparing sessions and further activities.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2825	Before we cross, is there any more similar information? Before we move to the agenda, I would like to inform you that as chairman of this House, I have received a letter from the High Representative of Mr. Petrič. I won't read your letter, but I'll read your decision. 157 In the exercise of the powers conferred on me in Annex X of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, under which the High Representative is the final authority on the ground with regard to the interpretation of his mandate and particularly in view of Article 2, point 1.d.) This annex, which has been given the authority of the High Representative to assist, if deemed necessary, in addressing any problem that arises in connection with civil implementation, in the light of the interpretation of such authorisation given in point 11.1. of the Peace Implementation Conference held in Bonn on 10.12.1997, in particular in the indent of c.), and in the sense that the High Representative has the right to make binding decisions, if it considers it necessary to adopt measures aimed at ensuring the implementation of the peace agreement throughout BiH, including measures necessary to ensure the smooth work of joint institutions. In view of Article 3(1), point (f) of the BiH Constitution and of the human rights agreements referred to in Annex 1 to the BiH Constitution, and in particular the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees and its 1966 Protocol, as well as other relevant international agreements in which BiH is a Contracting Party, concerned that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has not recently adopted the Law on Immigration and Asylum, taking into account the provisional order of the international police commissioners made on 30.08.1999 on police operations aimed at objects suspected of being involved in the organisation of prostitution, on the basis of all of these, I am making the following decision on decisions on the refusal of the entry of foreigners. Article 1 In the sense of this decision: (a) Any person who is not a citizen of BiH is considered to be a foreigner; (b) Under the decision to refuse entry, a solution is taken at the border point or in BiH if it is a party who has entered illegally or who has remained illegally in BiH territory; (c) Under the term "execution" means to be forced away with intent and or indeed????? Foreigner from BiH territory. Article 2 Until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts the Law on Immigration and Asylum and until the law is implemented, no solution to the refusal of foreigners to enter BiH will be implemented without prior consultation with international police. Article 3 This Decision shall enter into force immediately and shall be delivered to all interested parties in an appropriate manner. The decision is published in the official ballots of BiH, RS, the Federation of BiH and all cantons of the Federation of BiH on the eighth day of its entry into force. Sarajevo, 29.10.1999, 158 Volfgang Petrič, High Representative of Honored Gentlemen, as chairman of this House, I welcome this decision, namely, thank Bog that the High Representative has stopped making laws and focused his work on this activity that really belongs to him. I welcome this approach and thank the High Representative for doing it this way. I don't think there's any need to comment on the decision, but I read the decision just to let her know.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2826	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, of course, don't think I am commenting on Mr. Petrič's decision, but I think I am commenting on the enthusiasm of that decision and on how important it is that Mr. Petrič made the decision and instructed us that this decision will be in force until the law itself is passed. It is completely unusual for the president of the House to be delighted with the decision that the House has not passed a law that would prevent anyone from making decisions on behalf of us. Therefore, it would be a completely opposite situation for the House Chairman to invite MPs and chairpersons or presidents of different clubs, whether these dependent or independent or semi-dependent, to sit down and to create an urgent procedure for the adoption of this law. It is the work of Parliament, not to be thrilled with the decisions because we have not passed the law and it is reportedly Petrič in the right way. He probably knows how it works, so he signed it. It's time for Mr. Banjac to sign the Asylum and Immigration Act, which is the essence of the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2827	Thank you very much to the honourable MP, I'll just give you a little answer. I will be happy when you, Mr. MP, advocate the Constitution of BiH and when you adopt the amendments in accordance with the Constitution. I can't force you to do that, nor can I think of it, and I am happy that the High Representative is not declaring the laws, but rather making us make laws for this country ourselves, which is a big deal for all three peoples and both entities. I think that the progress in this country will be when the laws are passed by us, when we agree around them, to find compromises in the interests of all citizens and peoples of BiH. Can't if it's a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2828	First of all, I don't understand your invitation to follow the Constitution and the law, I voted, you didn't follow, then. I don't know how good your memory is to know who voted, who didn't. I voted very precisely for the law, and as far as I know, it is now absolutely one remark that does not stand and I ask you to stick to your role as speaker and that is very good, but that you do not give any explanations to the representatives in 159 relationships with the Constitution and the laws. We have voting procedures, we know who voted, and that's a whole other subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2829	Sir, I ask you to spare me that you comment on what I say, so I will spare you to comment on what you say and I will be very happy to do. Thank you very much. We're moving on. I would like to inform you that the Kolegijum as a commission has been sitting, and regarding the report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH and brought the next position. The Kolegijum Commission discussed the post-election state of the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers for the January-September 1999 period, carried out on the 3rd part of the 11th session of the House of Representatives on 27 October 1999. Following the interpretation of the provisions of the BiH Constitution and the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the College members took a unique position that the House of Representatives should not have voted, but that the report should have received knowledge, resulting in no need to hold a second round of voting on the Report. The Commission concluded that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat provides the BiH Council of Ministers with a magnetogram of the discussion on the report on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers to analyse the objections and proposals presented in the discussions. We signed three members of the Kolegijum. As for the suspended work at the point Report on the request of the SDP MPs' Club, we immediately sent a letter to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and we received today a report on the request. I ask the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Minister of Ašanin to read the report that just arrived.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2830	The report was delivered by the BiH Council of Ministers' Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. We got a letter in which there's a lot of demands. That letter was sent by Mr. Banjac, it was really impossible to answer so many requests and so many questions within 7 days. However, we have taken all the actions, we have addressed precisely those institutions where records can be obtained. We received a response from the RS MUP, we also received a partial response from the BiH Federation MUP, we have not yet received a response from the Ministry of the Herzegovina Canton MUP and we have data from the Ministry. I only gave this one introductory part, and now I would like to read what this first initial report should be, given the huge job, the first report for the Assembly and the response to the SDP Assembly's request. As regards your letter, this number, and this, since 28.10.1999, which has been addressed to this ministry in which you inform that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held at the meeting on 27.10.1999 in the process of considering the issue of the BiH SDP MPs' Club, related to the admission of foreigners to citizenship, has concluded that the Council of Ministers of BiH, within a short period of time, therefore for 7 days, answers 160 requests of the SDP and delivers the response to the House of Representatives, and that the SDP requires detailed information with a tabular representation of the admission of all foreigners to citizenship in BiH, starting in '92. The years with the decidently listed data, we'll inform you of the following. The BiH citizenship, from 6 April to the entry into force of the BiH Constitution, was carried out by the competent authorities of the former RSBiH and Herceg Bosnia and RS authorities. Given that the admission of foreigners to BiH citizenship has been carried out by several authorities and based on several legal rules, a commission has been formed to discuss the status of persons admitted to BiH citizenship during that period. The BiH Council of Ministers made a decision on the establishment of a commission to discuss the status of naturalised persons after 6 April 1992, before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution. The Commission has been established and has begun its work. Once the Commission considers the status of naturalised persons, it will be able to give a full answer to the SDP request by BiH. We also inform you that the Council of Ministers of BiH has reached a conclusion that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is making up information about the admission of foreign citizens and persons without citizenship to BiH after the BiH Constitution is in force until now. Data collection is under way from the competent authorities that have accepted BiH citizenship in order to make up that information. After the information is provided to the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration, it will be delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I still have to add that there have been other demands that we really won't be able to answer. One question was: how many dual citizenships there are in relation to BiH – Yugoslavia and BiH and Croatia, these are really issues, since we do not have diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia to which we will not be able to answer and it is very difficult to answer even the question of how many dual citizenships there are with Croatia. The question is whether Croatia will deliver these data at all, and we, according to our records, are not really able to do so. There are some questions we will not be able to answer, but all the questions we can answer will be answered as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2831	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2832	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be talking about this point, not this part of the agenda. 1. I don't think it's a good thing MPs don't have a response from the Council of Ministers but to hear him orally by the Minister of Ašanin, that's first; 161 2. In response, Minister Ašanin, I heard, and I will see if it is written in the text, that the passports were issued by the organs, and he says, quote: “Former RBiH, Herceg Bosnia and RS”, it seems that only RBiH is ex, and not others; 3. On the occasion of putting this point on the agenda, I believe that the College of the Parliamentary Assembly has made an unforgivable mistake, but I am not sure if he did it on purpose or by chance. Namely, in Article 4. The interim Rules of Procedure of the BiH Assembly say the College is obliged, among other things, to approach the minutes of the previous session and the material for the opening debate on the agenda points. I know this is going to look like a form to you, but this is the most important thing. I don't know what purpose, and I don't know why the College proposed to the House of Representatives the agenda point for which it had no material at the time, for which we only later received material from the minister and the deputy, and then when we discussed the agenda point, it turned out that whoever was looking for answers to the questions had not received one-fifteen answers to those questions. This is the most serious failure of the House of Representatives College to call a session, with responsibility bearing both the House of Representatives and ourselves because we accepted such a agenda. I call upon the College of the House of Representatives and this home never again on the agenda, for any reason, to put an end to the agenda for which there is no fully prepared declaration by the competent authorities. I'll be very open this time. This was done, according to my assessment, therefore, with the obvious goal of opening up a debate on an important issue on the basis of insufficient information, and then, instead of discussing the essence of the request, the debate came down, as last time, on mutual charges, political qualifications and so on. I think it's this time too, and I'm asking that the College never call and put on the agenda the point for which there's no preliminary material prepared for that part of the agenda, that was my intervention. I hope, I am also saying this as an MP, but even if the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and I think that this time the College will take this very seriously what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2833	Of course, in order to come to the truth, honourable MP, it is always necessary, in a democratic process, to listen to both sides, and that other side is the Kolegijum on whose behalf I want to say the following. For this agenda you voted here and if we, not only have these points but we have left others out of our proposal, but here according to the Rules of Procedure, the agenda has been voted upon and it is said: this cannot be changed, this is a continuation of the session. The point you're talking about has come to three versions of the material that we can't... because it's a fact state and it's not true that it wasn't material, and I'm neither a member of the Kolegijum nor an MP capable of deciding whether this report that came complete, incomplete, valid, invalid, there you, gentlemen of the Parliament, is to decide. So that's it. Today's view of the Kolegijum, a unanimous view, is that there is no further discussion on this point, because there is no material in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for this point, because we were looking for additional materials based on the conclusion of this home. We didn't get them, so today we unanimously took the stand not to discuss this point. 162 The point is included in the agenda, when it is included by your vote, because you have received three materials, three different, whether complete or not, there you have decided what you will do. You asked for additional materials. The additional materials have not come, the Kolegijum unanimously says: this point cannot continue according to the Rules of Procedure, it is our unique position of the College. Replica, then Mr. Ambassador Bogičević, Tokić and Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2834	I almost don't need to replicate. The chairman of the College now says that there is a unique position that this cannot be discussed further because there are no relevant documents, or materials. From the first moment on, there was not enough relevant documents, given the request of the person who proposed this item of the agenda in the original SDP text. Since there was no response to 15 requests from the beginning, but two answers to one single request, I believe, and therefore I refer to the College's criticism, that putting this item on the agenda, in this way, without documents, is an unforgivable mistake of the College with major political consequences and that finally the College realized that it had made a mistake and now unanimously withdraws this point from the agenda because we do not have elements based on which we can debate. I'm just asking you not to do it any further, because we could get into a position... whether you did it on purpose or out of ignorance. I'm staying convinced that you did it out of ignorance and I want to help you this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2835	Thank you very much, Mr. MP, the replica has a vice-president, Mr. Skopljak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2836	Mr. Kadić, dear gentlemen, I must say, the truth is that just a minute before your intervention we unanimously agreed that this point does not have complete information, or there is not enough material and that we do not need to discuss it further, if you can believe it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2837	poslanik Bogičević, Ambassador Tokić, MP Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2838	Dear gentlemen, as you know, we have made a request contained in 15 points and refers to the entire area of BiH. When it comes to citizenship, every normal state must know who is a citizen of that state, who is a foreigner who is admitted to the state's citizenship. As you know, we've received conflicting information, first from Mr. Ašanin, then we've received information from Mr. Rečica, so Minister and Deputy Minister, that's different information, and then, as Parliament, we've received information from the Administrative Service of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Instead of signing to Parliament 163 information by the co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Administrative Service writes that the Council of Ministers agreed that both the Ministers and the Deputy Ministers, who are different, come to Parliament because they could not agree, so as Parliament will agree, let the evaluation be valid. We got oral information today. The College has made a proposal, and we, as applicants of this request, suggest that today we do not discuss this case until we get complete information, but we also ask that the deadline is set today, it cannot be dragged indefinitely. As legislators of this request, we support the position of the Colleges with the addition of the deadline, and today there is no need to open a new debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2839	Thank you very much. Is that on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2840	On behalf of the MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2841	I can't allow further discussion on this subject, given that on behalf of the Club, if it is about this point, MP Tokić, the club's position is complemented. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2842	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I really don't think there's any reason for us to have any particular anxiety, I am standing at the point that, however, the good path has gone, and that is that the Council of Ministers of BiH has come out with the view that it is ready to do one piece of information and as fully as possible. Whether or not we will get that and how these questions will be answered, I would not speak now, but in the name of the Club, by staying with what Mr Bogičević said, I would like to supplement this conclusion with the next request on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. During the previous parliamentary session, orally, it became a practice of coming from members of the BiH Council, Deputy Foreign Minister Dragan Božanić expressed very serious views and interpretations concerning the alleged existence of a training camp for terrorists and members of various armed forces in the territory of the BiH state that are being sent to Chechnya and Kosovo, and cited the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation as an excuse for that information. In every normal state, such an attitude expressed in public cannot remain so closed. Therefore, the SDP asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take a stand on this discussion and, if it is true, to request concrete arguments from the Russian Federation, evidence, in order to break such a practice eventually. We cannot, as an SDP, agree that in the course of a discussion, a member of the BiH Council of Ministers comes out, officially speaks, declares this as an element of the official delegation of the foreign ministry's talks during the stay of a state delegation in the Russian Federation in Moscow and then closes the book as if nothing had happened. I mean, 164 Chairs, that I've made myself quite clear and I have no intention of opening the debate now, but that an integral part of these 15 questions be this 16 question as well. Mr. Foreign Minister, esteemed deputies, I expect that we will also have a unique position to know that we are further politically acting on what is said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2843	I figured this out to add the 16th question, not to vote on something. One intervention from Minister Ašanin.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2844	I just read that we received this request on the 8th of October1999, about ten days ago. We really weren't able to provide detailed information. 8.10th was sent, and we received it at the last meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers. We're not running away from the obligation to do the job and we're gonna do everything we can. I would ask that when you set a deadline, you make sure that you don't give us this tight deadline, seven days, that's really impossible, and whoever wrote it for seven days, I have a feeling he didn't even want to get the information. Give us deadlines, keep in mind that we need to get in touch with the MUPs, that we need to get in touch with even the organs, the parent offices, so we can provide proper information. I'd like to ask it to be a little longer, not too long a deadline, but a longer term. Another intervention would be Mr. Tokić, Mr. Božanić is not a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, I am now speaking on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers. Therefore, do not always the Council of Ministers of BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2845	Mr. Špirić, is this part of the agenda? We've concluded this point and there's no need. A comment, so it's not a discussion, it's a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2846	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the biggest accident or the most negative conclusion that can be drawn from the debate on this item of the agenda is that this item of the agenda, or this problem, arouses the interest of democratic Europe and the world, and does not arouse the interest of the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the country to which the problem relates, and that is what will well create a picture of BiH in the eyes of international representatives and it is not good for the College to refer to this item of the agenda, regardless of what information is from the Council of Ministers of BiH and you can think of a commentary who says not knowing whether someone accidentally or intentionally placed this as a part of the agenda. Has anyone accidentally debated possible terrorism, possible naturalisation of terrorists, as BiH citizens, its participation, active participation in the BiH military and a number of activities that arise from this. The second thing is that the promoters felt that something else was going to go out with this point, but everything has to be talked about. Everything has to be discussed in order to enter a phase of mutual trust. 165
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2847	I beg the MP, since the point will be debated...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2848	I'm asking you to finish, we didn't take this off the agenda, we didn't come forward, we can't do that...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2849	The College took a unique position, which was supported by the proposing not to discuss the point, because the moment the agenda enters the agenda it becomes an integral part of the agenda of the Representative Council. I'll make a quick conclusion, just one comment. If the promoter had the right to a new conclusion, I guess as an MP, I have the right to help the promoter, according to the information available to the SFOR commander, Mr. General Adams, in BiH, in the BiH Federation, in the villages of Bocinj and September, there are no more words to be heard, but to check, on the road of Zavidovici – Maglaj, the training of a group of mujahedin volunteers to carry out terrorist actions on crisis hotspots. They are training alongside infrastructures from Pakistan, Chechnya, Iraq and other Islamic countries and professional officers of the Federation of BiH military. The training of musliman mujahedin lasts 90 days and now has about 100 students on it. One group. I'm asking this to end, it's a unique position of the College to end this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2851	Can I draw a conclusion with this? I beg you, in order to reach a conclusion, I must give an explanation. I can't explain it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2852	Here, we heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2853	You didn't hear, I want two more sentences to conclude. A group of the same size has already completed training and has been sent to Chechnya to assist Chechen rebels with BiH travel documents issued by CSB Zenica. The cost of training and transfer to the crisis hotspots has been taken over by an Islamic Fedz Foundation based in the Islamic Youth Act office at the Islamic Centre in Zenica. Next to Pupils
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2854	Thank you very much, I beg your conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2855	I beg you, Mr. Chairman, this is not a serious matter. The conclusion is that a assembly commission is formed with the help of representatives of the international community to visit those locations.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2856	Well, then give me a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2857	So I have to give an introduction to suggest a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2858	Too long an introduction, brother.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2859	It's not too long because this is a serious thing. I ask you, the conclusion is that a committee is formed with the help of the international community representatives to remove the anthem from these things, to help BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2860	Let's draw a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2861	I have reached a conclusion, but I would ask you to lead this congregation with more responsibility in the future, not to put the agendas you are unable to discuss or not to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2862	It's a removed act, MP. At the beginning of the session, the agenda has been removed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2863	I call in the capacity of the president of the Coalition for Full BiH MPs to refrain from discussing this, for moments, a provocative discussion and to respect the position of the College and the promoter that there are no necessary conditions to discuss the agenda point and the point will be placed on the agenda of the moment when the conditions are met, and this should be discussed which time-limit could be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2864	Can I just go with Minister Ašanin... and put the tension down because of this situation?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2865	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would agree with the predecessors who say this is a very, very important question, but I can't understand how much 167 of this serious question is unseriously approaching. Obviously, we're not going to discuss this today for being unprepared to discuss it. I'd like to ask why we're not ready to discuss this agenda point today. It's immodest to quote yourself, but I'll do it now. After reading 15 questions and requests submitted by the SDP to the Assembly, we agreed that we were not ready to discuss it then, and my proposal was for the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare for the next assembly to answer all 15 questions, and for those questions he cannot answer to write why he can't answer, we don't have it today. I'm just asking a question, if it comes down today, until it comes down and under what conditions are we going to discuss this again? This isn't a matter of outwitting ourselves, of transferring this or that, of some other things that aren't even tied up. What Mr. Špirić said, that's what Europe is about and we're pushing it aside. This question is another proof that we often lack laws or laws so that we can discuss matters in the congregation but lack good will and willingness to take seriously those problems that are within the congregation’s jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2866	I am concluding the debate on this agenda point and now we have two conclusions that we need to make, that is to set a deadline, reach a conclusion on the deadline, until this report is delivered here, in consultation with Minister Ašanin's proposal is that it be within 60 days of today. We have been consulted here as a Kolegijum, and I must tell you that the members of the College are in agreement. Of course you don't have to accept it, you can propose a second deadline, but, here, there are a number of questions here. We if we wanted to be true, I would not accept the conclusion that Parliament does not want to deal with this issue. I would like to say, perhaps Parliament would like to receive a partial, complete and reasoned information on the issue behind which the competent ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers of BiH and I think it is. I'm asking that we be, too, here, if the promoter is not in agreement, is there any other suggestion? __________. Dear gentlemen, we have made a request to President Banjac on 20 September1999, almost two months have passed by now. We suggest that no later than the new year, in the next month and a half, we get an answer to this question. Thank you very much. I suggest that it be a compromise solution, not a month, which Branko says, is not two of what's been proposed here, but a month and a half, so until the new year. Is it a new deadline?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2868	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to express a clear view. If the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the competent ministry, the Representative Council of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the joint bodies of BiH cannot reach such information within a month or 60 days, we do not need such bodies. Can we then conclude that BiH is not protected? In 60 days we are looking for information on naturalised citizens of BiH, 168 are the authorities of BiH? I ask that this deadline be reduced to 15 days and that a serious congregation debate be addressed to this very important issue.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2869	Here, we have other suggestions now. I think we're going to have to make a statement about this deadline. The College is of the opinion, if there are no new interventions, to find a compromise solution by the new year, this new year, 2000, by 1 January 2000, with this additional issue. Who's in? I think most of them and that deadline has been accepted, that's quite clear. We'll get to your proposal, Špirić, especially about that. Who's from the RS to be by the new year? There's a need for most of them. From the Federation of BiH? Thank you, 14. We have a proposal from Mr Špirić, 15 days, asking for an MP to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2870	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the SDP, raised this issue two months ago, and in order not to replace the thesis, we voted in 45 days with the intention of obtaining this information, because it is obvious that the BiH Council of Ministers' response is that it will not honour the 15-day conclusion. As for our relationship with the BiH Council of Ministers' meeting, two sessions ago, we expressed our position in the context of a no-confidence vote, just to explain what we are voting on so that these do not race. The SDP raised this issue more than two months ago, considered it urgent, but we have such a Council of Ministers of BiH which was supported by most in parliament, which simply won't or can't, I don't know, nor do I know what, to deliver the information.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2871	Is MP Špirić giving up his proposal, no, asking to vote. Who wants it to be within 15 days? 4, there is no need to implement it until the end, as it can be seen that the four-vote proposal cannot receive any necessary majority. The deadline until the new year has been adopted to obtain full information and with the 16th question, an additional issue concerning the matter proposed by Mr. Tokić and I do not wish to move on... Mr Špirić suggested that a assembly commission be formed which, I ask you not to be angry, be patient, to form a assembly committee that will visit the alleged training sites listed in the SFOR report. Give me the conclusion that you want him to be formulated. Give me the conclusion in writing, and I'll read it. Here, read Mr. Špirić's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2872	I said that alleged training locations were informed by SFOR generals of the RS authorities and I suggest that a assembly commission be formed with the assistance of SFOR forces and the international community, that two locations be visited and determined whether or not there is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2873	Form a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2874	To form a assembly commission to visit those locations.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2875	What locations?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2876	It's a Bočinja and a Rujnica, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2877	Now before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2878	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like first of all to determine whether this assembly is responsible for implementing the Annex 1.a) of the Dayton Agreement, which is an agreement on the military aspects of the Peace Agreement for BiH. Who is responsible for carrying out this inspection and who is responsible for ordering foreign troops from BiH territory to withdraw? We need to distinguish our jurisdiction here. Are those the powers of the assembly or the commander of SFOR for BiH? As an MP, I have no objection to these foreign troops withdrawing from BiH territory, but I don't think we as MPs are in charge of that, if there are, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2879	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2880	I think we can get into a situation when we're getting into something that we're not going to get any results from. I wouldn't want us to do anything in the Assembly to dilute what we'd have to do this year. I would ask MP Špirić, perhaps to reconsider his proposal, but as a compromise proposal to be a proposal that could have some result, which is that the SFOR Assembly is asking for information on foreign persons in the BiH area, possibly training centres and the like. Which means, if we, here, determine a commission that will go to some location, what they will find at that location, they will find nothing, to leave tomorrow, not in 15-20 days, but one 170 information by SFOR that could help the Assembly at that session certainly be of use to enlighten this issue. My proposal is, if fellow Špirić agrees to rephrase what he asked for, that the assembly request SFOR information on possible training centres.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2881	Replica
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2882	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, on behalf of the proposer of this agenda, I would like to clarify the position of the SDP Parliament Club. We don't even agree with the discussion on which this assembly is not in charge of this issue, or the discussions that are going hasty on committees. When we get full information, I guess that's why we're looking for information, then we're going to form a lot of, maybe, investigative committees or maybe we won't need to form one, but in our goal, our initiative for an additional issue, for which we took as a basis a statement from the deputy foreign minister who is not a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, but then he performed in the absence of the foreign minister that, when we get relevant information, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH takes a political stance on the issue. As for the SFOR information issues. The BiH Council of Ministers has the powers, has absolutely every opportunity to collect all the necessary information related to foreign citizens, to move and all this, as part of the completion of its information. At this point, we believe that insistence on the partial investigation committees, on any matter, politicisation and, in a certain way, does not go into solving the whole of this case, which we, as proposing, are the initiators of this agenda point primarily interested in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2883	I have two suggestions. You insist on voting despite the intervention? poslanik Tokić, since he proposes this new one
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2884	Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, I'd like to ask the gentleman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, God Bog you're the speakers of the people who elected you, not to mention Russia, the Council of Europe, etc., you don't hold to your people, let alone the Council of Europe, because if you did, you probably wouldn't be in this situation. I understand the intentions of the promoters and those who hold the majority in this Representative Council. I said that the debate over this point would lead to many things that are reluctant to be said, but this is a Parliament in which everything has to be spoken and I say that it would be good, here, to accept a compromise solution that we have from General SFOR and representatives of the international community, military and police forces, asking for information whether there are such centres and that we have such information here. I want to see the international community here as part of our environment, not as nice guys and ugly guys. We are 171 as domestic as we are, and they are without error, etc., to solve problems in this space together.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2885	I beg you, formulate a precise conclusion on how to read, because I have more...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2886	To ask General SFOR, Mr Adams, if there are any centres, according to SFOR forces, to train Islamic terrorists in the Federation of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2887	As president of the Club of Representatives Club for CD BiH, I call on Members to refrain from reacting to these provocations again, please. Discussions in the supposed opinions, alleged statements, I cite assumptions lead us to what we have at this point. This home should have a fact-based discussion based on quality preparation, based on quality materials. We reacted and indicated that it would happen that the points that do not have the preparation should simply be removed from the agenda. This is what happened. The BiH CD club will propose the necessary commissions after discussions on the reports it has received, propose anything that will be ordered by the report to be done. At this point, for no extruded solutions, we can neither be nor be, but we are ready to review all the centers in the wider and narrow space when a report is needed in front of the MPs. For this I call on the MPs to abstain, and the chairman of this House I ask that any proposals, if he insists on them, be put to the vote and that we end this point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2888	A break has been requested.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2889	A break at the request of the Members' Club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2890	MPs, esteemed guests, I suggest we continue our work, please the representative of the CD Coalition Club to inform us of what they discussed on the break, agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2891	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and guests, 172 On behalf of the MPs of the Coalition for the CD BiH, I express our shock at the statement by MP Špirić in which he most brutally linked Islam and terrorism. I have personally reacted on several occasions to insulting statements and the qualifications of MP Špirić. I remind you of his qualification as a representative of the international community, as a trainer who with the whips regulates the behaviour of citizens and MPs in this home, citizens in BiH and MPs in this home. Members of the CD Coalition will refrain from further responding to today's offensive statement, but if counterpart Špirić does not withdraw his qualification, we will consider other options for setting up to this offensive statement and the Hague language and the behaviour of MP Špirić in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2892	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2893	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I know that the debate today is difficult, complex, for some unpleasant, painful, like this or like this, but I have to answer that Mr. Nikola Špirić, who wants the role of MPs to perform these two years, is based on the votes of my electoral electoral body. I'm willing to apologize publicly for all the unintentioned insults I'm willing to make, and for all the mounted insults or, for God's sakes, I'm not prepared to react at all. It's not the role of a messenger to insult, it's the role of debate. I don't know who could have been hit and insulted after my request to discuss such complex matters. The other thing is that, gentlemen, through this debate, or part of the MPs, you wanted to talk about something else, but only when it comes to order will you get a clear comment from MP Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2894	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and I'm not going to give any more replicas or discussions, since I've heard different statements here, I'd like to try to suggest something that could be a compromise. We have no right to, as representatives of this assembly, neither of the generals who command SFOR nor of SFOR, nor of SFOR, nor of them, we are under any authority to ask for something of them, which is why I will propose a compromise on this, since there is a proposal and I cannot bypass it, I will try to suggest it, and on you, gentlemen of the proposers, here I particularly mean MPs Špirić and Dokić, will you agree to what I will read. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking for SFOR's command to provide full information to this home whether there are military training centres for foreign citizens who have or do not have BiH citizenship in BiH. If we stopped talking about it, there's something or there's nothing. Here I think I've tried not to offend anyone, or call this name or that name, so please advisers, Dokić, Špirić, first of all, do you agree with the text I suggested? Dokić, consensual. Špirić, consensual. 173 I'll read the text one more time. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's representative requests that SFOR's command provide full information to this home whether there are military training centres for foreign citizens who have or do not have BiH citizenship in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2895	Mr. Chairman, judging by the fact that you put this proposal, according to your compromise conclusion, on the agenda, I have a feeling that the agenda item was a debate on alleged training centres for foreign citizens. I think you're making an important step away from the Rules of Procedure because you've forgotten what the original agenda point is. Where's the conclusion of what the College agreed on when it comes to the agenda we're discussing today? You forgot where you started, since this is already the third sequel. I ask you to do your job very precisely and responsibly because technical inaccuracy in your business is causing terrible political consequences. I don't want to go any further since we agreed we wouldn't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2896	I have tried and, please, I would not like to install anything or wish anything was mounted on me and put into my mouth that I have or haven't said, from two discussions that have appeared here in view of the two conclusions of MPs Dokić and MP Špirić, to whom they have the right, I have only tried to make a compromise proposal, which is ultimately my right when I hold a session. Do I have the right to any conclusion not to vote? I don't. MPs, are you withdrawing the motion for a conclusion? Dokić. This is where they suggested the conclusion that caused the storm. Here, let them say, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2897	Just a few sentences. I think we should bring this to an end and the chairman should put it to the vote if we're going to ask for this or not. It cannot be said that this is not in line with what we previously discussed because, after all, the 16th question that the SDP defines, i.e. extends to it directly refers to it. In order to obtain more comprehensive information, this is the kind of proposal that includes all of BiH and the possible existence of such things, I think it's better and more sincere than getting individual information here from anyone, allegedly, that there is information from SFOR, etc. I think it's really well-intentioned to ask for this kind of information, and based on that, we either re-integrate the discussion or put an end to it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2898	Replic or what?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2899	I am well aware of the Rules of Procedure and I know that the MP has the right to request a certain conclusion, but, Mr Dokić, does it not seem to you that, if the College has already agreed that there are no elements to continue the debate and under 174 2. If there is a conclusion that it requires full information from the competent state authorities about everything, including that point on the 16th, does not it seem to you to be a political abuse of 15 previous points to adopt them in the package, and to the sixteenth, you take it very explicitly, seeking it as an exclusive, special conclusion, which is what I am talking about, Mr. President Banjac. I think that you should come up with an original proposal that already contains what is very well-produced here, with an obvious political goal, wants to expose this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2900	poslanik Dokić insists that the vote be voted on, and as an MP, he has the right to do so, and I cannot take that right from him. I am putting the vote to the conclusion, reading: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking for SFOR's command to provide full information to this home whether there are military training centres for foreign citizens who have or do not have BiH citizenship. How many are there? 27. Who's in favor of this conclusion? 8. Who's against it? Abstained 19. Please, does anyone have any objections to the voting process? No, there's no need to vote in the second round, the conclusion didn't get the required majority. I'm closing this point and we're moving to the 8th point of the Ad.8 agenda. The BiH Central Bank's response to the conclusion of House of Representatives 03-152/99 since 3/09/1999. Is there a Central Bank representative present? It's not. You've received a report, I'm opening a discussion according to the Central Bank's response, which you've received, here you go. Dear colleagues, the presidency, which was adopted at the session of this house since 31 August, on a proposal from the SDP to discuss the Central Bank's annual report for 1998, requested information on violations of the accounts of the National Bank of BiH, that is, the Central Bank of BiH and measures for their legal and financial sanctioning. We have had a long time, but here we are today discussing the Central Bank's response to our conclusion. In this response, the Central Bank only partially informs us about the state of affairs. In short, in response to the Central Bank of BiH, it is said that at the beginning of the Central Bank's work, when the National Bank of BiH's monetary base was taken over, the monetary passport was not fully covered by monetary activity. It is noted that this specifically refers to deposits in the domestic currency of the earlier government of BiH and so on. the non-determination of deposits held in Sarajevo's Office for Payments, which led to the status of the currency board being questioned. We also received information that the uncovered section of the passport was about 79.4 million converting marks, I speak a round figure for easier understanding and that it was gradually reduced to August o.g. In 1999 it was finally covered by 175 realisation of the agreement, a protocol on providing funds to cover the government deposits of the National Bank in conversion marks. From this answer, we first see that the figure of an uncovered monetary passport is greater than that of which it was operated in public, i.e. Much larger than the delirious resulting from the operation through the Promdej Bank, which has been charged with the responsible at the National Bank. According to news reports, the indictment was filed for about DEM 24.5 million, figures converted into German marks. The question arises what about the difference of up to 79.4 million KM and on what basis it was created. I must say that the Central Bank of BiH's response does not give us any information on the violations of the Central Bank's report on pages 19th and 20th of this report, under the heading Control Function. In front of the SDP MEPs' Club, I must say that with the response of the Central Bank of BiH, the MEPs' Club is not satisfied because we have not received answers to the questions raised by the conclusion of this home adopted in the debate on the annual report of the Central Bank of BiH. However, the Central Bank has been fenced that it is not a legal follower of the National Bank. In his letter, the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH, Mr nikol suggested that we ask for the data from the liquidator of the National Bank of BiH, so according to this it turns out that our conclusion is not addressed to the right address. However, this does not mean that he should give up. We are convinced that the issues we have raised have great importance in ensuring transparency and accountability for the work of the state authorities and individuals who operate them, and therefore the SDP Members' Club proposes that this House draw the following conclusions. 1. To ask the National Bank of BiH's liquidator for information on the reasons for which the National Bank of BiH was unable to provide a sufficient amount of monetary activity when forming the Central Bank, with a request to state the procedures that led to and under whose decisions they were implemented; 2. To ask BiH institutions for information on how an uncovered part of the monetary passport is covered and from which sources and whose decisions it is made. We'll get to the bottom of this information when we get this part we suggested below.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2903	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Central Bank of BiH and its Governor Piter nikol have drawn up information on the course of the debate, which was held at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, essentially two-way, and therefore I support what Ms. Muminagić said would be good, in line with the instructions of the Governor of Mr. Nikola, to request an opinion or information on the reasons why the National Bank of BiH is not in the form and start of the work of the Central Bank of BiH, to provide an adequate amount of monetary activity, should be provided by the liquidator of the National Bank of BiH. Of course, you know that this 176 phenomenon led to almost the Central Bank of BiH being brought into question, at the very beginning, the operations of the Central Bank of BiH, a currency board that proved to be the most correct solution in this period of time. That's what the governor of the Central Bank of BiH is suggesting. Another thing I would like to suggest, and here, on behalf of the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and Krajina, and as an MP for the party, I demand that we request a supplement of the report from the Central Bank of BiH. I think that information is skillfully hidden or no answer is given, and it concerns the control function of the Central Bank of BiH and the irregularities that the Central Bank of BiH has seen in the work of business banks. It is very important that we get this two information for the reasons that we all stress BiH's need for donor funds, for BiH's need for something more active correspondence with the international community and with international financial clubs and for that it would be good to insist on supplementing this information from both the National Bank of BiH's liquidators and the addition of information from the Central Bank of BiH, these are the two additions that I insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2904	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I think that this item of the agenda is very important in the context of what the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should face, which is an organised fight against corruption, which is obviously one of the very expressed problems, if not the biggest problem of today's BiH, no matter how much the current representatives of the authorities are trying to minimize or conceal. In order to obtain further information that could be a focus on combating corruption, I would ask that, according to one conclusion adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH here, which is that so far established, the suspects for this process are suspended from the responsible functions they perform, that is what the Governor of the Central Bank of BiH has done when it comes to those involved in its jurisdiction, but as far as the BiH Presidency is concerned, we have sent a request to the BiH presidency that Mr Omičević, I think that is what it is called, from the Central Bank of BiH's Governance Council, also suspends. We did not get a response from the BiH presidency. There are two important problems, one is that the BiH presidency ignores the position, the commitment of a parliamentary home, and another is that in a certain way there is a danger that a man accused of high-level embezzlement is still in a position to perform a function where there is a whole series of possibilities for the BiH central institution's illegal, illegal work. Therefore, my conclusion would be to ask the BiH presidency for information on whether the BiH presidency suspended Mr Omičević. The whole thing is even more interesting, given that the said gentleman was, in his own time, one of the first indictees in this big affair and the president of the Commission in the fight against corruption that Izetbegović formed with the desire to prove, following Robin Kuk, the foreign minister of Great Britain, that there is no corruption in BiH and this political issue is very interesting for me from that point on. 177
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2905	Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? As far as I can see, there's no record of a discussion, and I'm going to put the motions of conclusions to the vote in the order they've been put forward. The SDP MPs' club proposed the following conclusions: 1. To request the National Bank’s liquidator information on the reasons for which the National Bank was unable to provide sufficient amount of monetary activity and the request to indicate the procedures which led to and under whose decisions it was implemented. 2. To ask BiH institutions for information on how an uncovered part of the monetary passport is covered, from which sources and according to which decisions. These are two conclusions in the proposal of the Members' Club, and I will put both proposals to a vote at the same time. I call upon the messengers to declare by raising their hands who is to these conclusions. 18, 25 present. Of the 25 present, 18 MPs voted for, we have a majority and we will vote on entities. Please, from the RS, who's in? Six. So there's a need for most of them. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Ten. The required, too, a third from the Federation of BiH's space and I will hold the vote until the end. Do you mind? Thank you very much, no one mind, the others are restrained. I find these two conclusions have received the necessary majority... and by entities. MP Špirić's proposal to supplement the report on irregularities, I think it is contained in these conclusions. So, the addition of reports in terms of the BiH Central Bank's control function on irregularities. Who is it for this proposal from MP Špirić? 14 for the 24th in attendance There's a lot of them. Please, from the RS, who's in? 6 There is, therefore, from the Federation of BiH for, thank you, therefore, there is a necessary majority from the Federation of BiH. I'll hold the vote until the end, would anyone mind? There's no one here. The others are restrained. Please make sure there are any objections to the vote. As far as I can tell, there isn't. We still have a proposal from Tokić to ask the BiH presidency for information on what was done at Omičević's suspension as a member of the Management Board. Who is for the proposal to ask the BiH Presidency for this information, who is in favour, please? 9 for the 24th in attendance The proposal didn't get the necessary majority, so we won't have to hold a vote on entities, but we'll spend the rest of our lives. Who's against it? Thank you. The others are restrained. In this way, by adopting these three conclusions, we've brought this point to an end and I'm concluding the 8th point of the agenda and we're moving on to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2906	Just before the conclusion, I had a phone call from the bank, just on this topic. They reported it this way: the governor is on his way somewhere, but the deputy governor asked for contact, and in the meantime the Board of Directors met, and they believe that the letter they sent us should be withdrawn for the supplement, because they say they have very important information. I just want to let you know. Then that's all, so we talked about some more things, and then it's okay. Ad.9. Financial report on the Stability Pact Summit for Southeast Europe on behalf of the Council, the Organising Committee? If anyone can handle it, there's no one. You've received the report and I'm opening a hearing according to the report. There's no reporter, but there's a report. The college here agreed that it would be good if we took an hour off, a reporter would come along, as far as this fine one is concerned. The works, and we have an agreement on the Work Programme, we're getting closer to the attitudes so we can use that hour around the Kolegijum session, and you have lunch break. How about that? Time out by half past three, I'm asking you at half past three to come here. At half past three, gentlemen from the Council of Europe will arrive. I suggest we get back to work. [[PAUZA]] We move to the 9th item of the agenda, this is the Stability Pact Summit Report for Southeast Europe, the financial part. I call upon Mr. Bičakčić to submit the opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2907	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, has prepared a detailed, precise and complete report during the review of the overall report on the Stability Pact. You get that report and I won't repeat what it says here. In any case, we can globally say that the total costs amounted to 4 million converting marks, that this does not include sponsorship achieved by domestic companies during the Stability Pact organisation and that the costs are covered by different sources. The biggest participation has been promised by the European Commission, unfortunately, this segment has not yet been realised and we still do not have a fully signed contract with the European Commission. I especially thank the Finnish Government, which in this section has participated 40% of the funds, in advance, which have been made available to us directly before the Stability Pact, and then through the assistance of the governments of Norway and Switzerland, which have completely reconciled their costs. The Finance Sub-Committee worked in a way that controlled each individual cost, and complete business went through the Central Bank of BiH. The rest is to round up this business and bring it to an end, after complete procedures with the European Commission have been completed. 179 I have repeatedly pointed out this relationship with the European Commission, unfortunately it has not changed yet, although we have promises and we have a decision to publish in their official vote, right in front of the Summit, which creates a legal basis for it to actually happen. We have an indication that these days, the realization of this will go at 60%, and we must primarily repay the debt to the Government of Finland, and then where it is necessary to submit to them the final report to pay the remaining 40% of the funds. Until then, we have on hold the payment of certain services that have been performed and we will be able to pay for these services in full. Here, in short, so much, if there are any questions, I'm ready to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2908	Thank you Mr. Bičakčić and I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Is there anyone who can answer the question or has to ask a question? Our introduction is willing to answer all your questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2909	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, mostly, the report contains all the elements that have been requested in the previous debate, but what I am particularly interested in, and I think it is possible to give an answer. 4 million and 9 and some KM were planned to maintain the Stability Pact, with income of 2,678,078 KM or approximately 67% of the necessary funds. Since the Stability Pact conference is over, it means that there are houses to which we owe or credit debt has been committed to cover the costs, or this meeting of the Stability Pact has ended with 2,678,078 KM. If there are debtors to whom it is due, does the item remain open, credit closed or funds for the maintenance of the Pact were initially pre-named? In that sense, I'm interested in the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2910	Any more questions? If there are no more questions, I suggest that Mr. Bičakčić answer the...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2911	The total costs are 4 million KM, and they are fully covered only by the fact that the collection is achieved, so 60% of the European Commission's funds are not realised, this represents this difference, and when it is realised it will cover the entire cost. At this point, we owe different subcommittees different amounts and they were given on page 2 and you know exactly what we didn't pay from it, mostly what had some priority urgency, and the rest of the costs in this amount were not paid by different subcommittees. Here, you can see that the medical service subcommittee didn't charge the costs, we're due here, so then the protocol subcommittee didn't charge in part and so on. In this table, it is stated exactly which subcommittees, and they also have precise accounts that subcommittees have concluded with companies that have provided and performed services. At this point, we owe those funds. It will be, there will be no credit debt, and simply, the payment option, they are familiar at the beginning that there will be delays in billing 180 and we believe that we will close it immediately after the arrival of these funds, and I expect a arrival this week. This first 60-percent tranche and the second tranche immediately. There is a legal basis in this decision by the European Commission, without that decision it would not be possible to maintain the Stability Pact.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2912	Is the MP satisfied with this answer? Thank you very much. No more reports. You've received the report and there's no need for any adoption and it's not from our jurisdiction. I'm closing this agenda point and I'm moving on to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. The proposal for a Work Programme for the House of Representatives by the end of this calendar year Kolegijum not reached a harmonised proposal for the Programme. We have one proposal from the Programme, which was delivered to you by Ambassador Genjac and one proposal delivered to you by Ambassador Skopljak and myself. I speak as MPs. We delivered it as messengers, not as chairman. I'm opening a discussion on this agenda point and I suggest that the programme's applicants speak first. You're the programs, both of you got, you just need to find them, of course. Mr. Genjac will talk about the program that he...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2913	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable fellow Members, I have signed a proposal for the Labour Programme of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives for the period of November - December 1999, which is behind which the Coalition for the Full and Democratic BiH Assembly Club stands, and this proposal contains, in addition to that part of the Programme adopted by representatives of all clubs in this Parliament, and part of the programme proposed by the OHR. As is known, the High Representative has delivered a list of laws that are necessary from the position of the Office of the High Representative to be adopted as soon as possible. It is also known that the request, i.e. the proposal of the BiH Coalition for CDs, was much more extensive in the first versions, we have followed the OHR proposal and we have adopted the position on 21 laws which, in our opinion, are necessary at this time to achieve the necessary legal framework for the functioning of BiH institutions. In addition, it is necessary to make assumptions about foreign investment, to create an ambience in BiH needed to attract foreign investment, a basic assumption for the start of the economy, to create new jobs. These laws are the Law on the Court of BiH, the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, the Law on BiH Law on the Law on BiH Administration, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Law on the Working Relations of BiH, the Law on the Border Service of BiH, the Criminal Law on BiH, the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH, the Law on Civil Procedures, the Law on the Transport of BiH, the Law on Electrical Energy in BiH, the Law on Postal Services of BiH, the Law on Public Broadcasting in BiH, the Law on State Institutions and the Law on the Implementation of BiH. 181 It's a natural reaction that this is a comprehensive program, and that there's little time ahead. However, long past deadlines have been set at the Madrid Conference, long past deadlines are necessary for the adoption of optimal time to pass such laws, and in addition, a significant part of these laws is in preparation and we keep this way the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives should give a message to the BiH Council of Ministers that we are ready to prepare those laws by the end of the year and can prepare them in these circumstances a significant number and we are prepared to adopt them at the House of Representatives. That would be a brief explanation of this proposal I signed, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2914	There's no mention of two things here, and that's why I'm going out. It was not mentioned at first that I, as an MP, submitted my proposals which should have already been in the process because it had been 60 days, however, and as the president, also, of the Council of Ministers of BiH to point out that it was also not mentioned here, that we, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, adopted the OHR compromise proposal as our proposal. The BiH Council of Ministers adopted the proposal for a programme at the request of this parliament as our proposal and it exists. If there is a debate on this proposal by the Council of Ministers, then, of course, I can... with my proposal as an MP. By the way, I would like to point out that this proposal and my proposal, as MP, have been reduced from 138 laws to a very small number of necessary laws. The OHR proposal is an OHR proposal and I will not comment on it now, however, the fact is, once again, that the Council of Ministers adopted the OHR compromise proposal as its proposal for the programme and submitted it to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2915	I want to rephrase as an MP first, and then I'll take it out. First of all, Mr Silajdžić, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly does not adopt the programme of work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, nor does it give consent to it, it is not in our constitutional jurisdiction, therefore, we can take it to the knowledge and we have done so. The proposal for a Council of Ministers programme cannot be a proposal for a programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in any way. Secondly, we cannot give consent to something we have no right to. We can't adopt something we don't have the right to. Can we give our suggestions and suggestions to that, that's not controversial. If you have already adopted your Work Proposal, it is your Work Programme Proposal, the program remains and we have obtained it as such, although I must tell you that it confuses the fact that you have supplied us with unsigned matter, that you have delivered the text which, therefore, is not signed and says that this is the proposal. However, it is said in some information that it is your adopted Programme, now you are telling us that the text has been delivered and I can show it to you, and MPs immediately look at it, it says the proposal is not signed, it is not certified, for me it is not 182 program. He's your program when he's signed by two co-chairs and one chairman, then it'll be your program. You will accept my suggestion that we neither give consent nor adopt, receive knowledge. As far as that goes, go ahead and we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2916	What I said at the meeting of the BiH Council of Ministers, we adopted the programme and that is so. On the other hand, as far as I know, this home has been looking for our proposal to work. I'm referring to that conclusion. If that's not the case, then I'm pulling it back, but I'd like to ask you to check it out, we're required to run that program. We haven't had it and we've worked on it for a long time and, if you will, we've been working on it for three years now, we've adopted a compromise programme that the OHR has offered, because it was the only programme we could accept.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2917	Thank you very much. I want to say that it is true what Mr Silajdžić said that we have asked for the Council of Ministers' Work Programme as one of the documents on which we will agree on our Work Programme, but we have said that in addition to this Work Programme for our proposal, we will need more proposals from MPs' clubs, individual MPs, that programme of 9.9., and anything else that comes will make the basis for our programme. So we didn't ask for your program to become our program, but to use it to make our program, that's true. Secondly, I can trust you now that it's your program, but what it says is not a program, but a proposal, because it's unconfirmed, it says that the proposal, it only leaves me to trust you. Here, I have no reason not to believe you. As for the Work Programme proposed by MP Skopljak and I, I would like to inform you that we are completely in the first part of the programme identical to the programme proposed by Mr Genjac, so that's the agreed part of the 9th session of Parliament clubs, with us being only different in that part of the billing. We are of the opinion that it should stand there to discuss, instead of listing, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives' House of Representatives, all other laws of its jurisdiction that will be prepared and delivered by the end of the year to the BiH Council of Ministers' House of Representatives. That's the only difference. Why did we do that? We did so because the only one responsible for the implementation of its programme is the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of BiH in its capacity for the fate of this country is deciding on the priorities and importance of its programme, which is partly in its proposal for the programme, and now you say the programme and so indicated and there is no need for us to say the priority we should be looking for something that can happen, but it is possible that you, apart from the eight proposed by Mr Genjac, will do some tenth law, and in that case, we should not discuss it because it is not in our programme. We wanted to bridge it in such a way that, therefore, we do not challenge you so that you can propose the most important part of your work, deliver to us from our jurisdiction laws, and we undertake to discuss them. 183 Mr. Genjac's proposal has something, too, contrary to Annex 9 of the Dayton Peace Agreement, because for the establishment of transport corporations, for mail, transport and electricity, laws are provided for, and Article 3, Annex 9 states: the parties can decide that, according to the Commission's recommendation, they use constitutionally basic transport corporations as a model for the establishment and establishment of other joint public corporations such as power management, water management, energy, PTT and communication services, therefore, agreements, not laws. It's in Annex 9. So that we do not reconsider what you, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, will consider whether it is a law or an agreement, we have left you an opportunity and that was the aim of Mr. Skopljak's proposal and me. So we're not arguing in any way that you have the right to suggest out of your jurisdiction what you think we should do, that we decide whether it's ours or not and that we discuss it and make the decisions that we're working on. There we are only different, and in this part we are absolutely in agreement with what Mr. Genjac said, it is true that we are also such a program as we have suggested, Mr. Skopljak and I are of the same opinion that he is too large in relation to the time that is before us. It was some kind of compromise. I've had so much. I am willing on behalf of Mr. Skopljak and my own name to answer together questions about our proposal as Mr. Genjac is probably willing to answer. Well, how can it be in the wrong program...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2918	In your explanation of postal services laws, electricity, you have mixed laws or agreements on corporations. The annex discusses corporations and their formation, and postal services laws, the electricity law is an obligation from the Madrid Declaration, and these laws need to be set up in a way that, in the field of BiH, in a unique manner, will edit the services considered universal services. That's why, I think those laws should remain in the program, that's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2919	Thank you very much, replica, or clarification. I don't have anything against the law or the postal traffic or the transport or the power, but it has to go through the prescribed procedure, and that procedure is, because it's not from our jurisdiction, it has to go to the entity councils, and there's no problem with that being the case. For these reasons, we did not instruct tax laws, leaving the BiH Council of Ministers to implement the procedure needed and prepare us for discussion. So, I'm not against it, it's just a procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2920	I'll take advantage of what I came out, before the discussion, I'd like an explanation about these replicas that were. Often demands, to say the least, or obligations, perhaps better said, from the Madrid Declaration are trying to interpret it one way or another. 184 The commitments of the Madrid Declaration refer to all of BiH. They also refer to its entities, which also means joint institutions, entity governments and the like. When it comes to the Electricity Act, I think you should know that two laws are being prepared in two entities that will be almost the same, the sponsor of the whole job is the Government of Norway, and there's a lot of good synchronization about these two laws being made. So many times that law has been mentioned here, really, I mean unnecessarily. At the very least, we should wait for those two laws to be made, and then we will see if it is necessary and necessary and what will be regulated within this congregation. When I answered for the discussion, I didn't mean to talk about it, I wanted something more principled. I would ask you to try and stop this exorcism of all of us about the 1999 Work Programme. If it weren't for the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe, I would indeed not be sitting in November, in half of November, at a session of the Assembly to discuss the programme for the current year. But since this is one of the first conditions for our reception, then all the other principles aside, considering this reception very important to BiH, that is why I have come to the floor to discuss this. We today, therefore, your delegation, or our delegation to the Council of Europe, have a meeting with the rapporteurs of the two basic committees on these issues and realize that this is the last observation for BiH's possible entry into the Council of Europe in January o.g. What we'll be able to tell them at six o'clock if we don't have a work programme in today's congregation by the end of this year, it's really all another illusion. Therefore, I ask you to keep that in mind and try today to arrange for this year until whose end is only a month's work, if you take Christmas holidays and what it is we have to accept today and vote all of them. If you look at two proposals that came from the co-chairs, then you can easily see that, other than point a, in all other points, these programs are consistent. I suggest we vote that and with that we have a programme and we have one conditions for admission to the Council of Europe. Point (a) I propose that we define this in the following way, but when we declare this, other options are possible, to say that by the end of the year, the BiH Assembly, the Representative Council of the BiH Assembly, on the agenda, will have all the laws that are under: 1st condition for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe 2nd laws which are obligations under the Madrid Declaration and relate to the joint institutions of BiH, i.e. for the whole BiH state and 3rd other laws prepared by the BiH Council of Ministers for adoption. I think this is a formula that is really acceptable under which we meet one of the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe and open up the possibility of further discussion. In the context of that, I hope we pass the procedure. A version of the asylum law has been prepared from the RS, therefore, which we did not accept last time for a re-insulation, to try and accept that request because it is also one of those conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. I'm asking you and I'm going to ask you to vote on this, of course, if you need more discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2921	Replica, Mr. Silajdžić, no, replica. 185
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2922	What I've heard is that we have to wait for two laws to be made in entities, and then we'll see if there's a law at the state level, I won't comment. It is known that the principles of these state laws are being established, and then entities comply with these principles, so so far it has been, so all three laws are being done, for your information, all three are being done at the same time. I'd like to say something here. I don't think we've paid much attention to the Work Programme so far, that we haven't tire of this issue. We've been excruciating on some other issues, however, this is about the fate of the country. I will put, as an MP, on the vote of the Office of the High Representative on the programme.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2923	As for the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that today we will indeed have a visit to the High Delegation of rapporteurs from the Council of Europe to this state parliament and that they come here with a primary goal of seeing how the state parliament works. Progress made in the functioning of the BiH Presidency, progress made in the functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers, which through the adoption of its work programme made the step, should also be followed by progress made to adopt its work programme at the end of this year and tackle the work programme for next year. I think here, indeed, if we follow these goals we can reconcile these proposals that have been made so far. The goal ahead of us, which is to join European integration, has a consensus of all peoples, all political parties, opposition, etc. If it can't be gotten through this decision of the House of Representatives, then we don't say these things seriously. So I ask you to make an effort to get to this work programme, and in the end, there's only a little time left, two months left. The Madrid Declaration remains as a document to be implemented. She won't be wiped out. In this year, we have managed to realise, by my own assessment, a little more than 50% of the commitments made in the Madrid Declaration, including the obligations of the BiH state entity and the obligation of the state, but it is a step forward and I think that by coming to this programme we will make this dialectic trade and I can say that in a large part of the discussion of fellow Dokić I agree absolutely. The laws they need for the state level, we'll get to it ourselves, and they'll be inevitable, too, after aneks 9. The Dayton Peace Agreement on the Construction of Corporations. We have done very little and the Office of the High Representative has made certain commitments, so it has not yet done so, and one single corporation that was made in rail traffic has not been registered because identical registration laws have not been adopted this time at the Federation of BiH Parliament. I ask for it to make an effort here to get to this work programme and I have another application in the end, since I have now obtained these materials that require ratification of a series of very significant agreements which mean significant financial support from the European Investment Bank, the Social Fund of the Council of Europe, the Japanese grant for Pre-European economic co-operation, to make the fastest possible decision under this agreement. These are things, indeed, where this state home could help to speed things up. Negotiations take longer, more than a year with the European Investment Bank, with the Social Fund, I think two 186 years, and the Social Fund solves, let's say, the future issue of supplying the city of Tuzla with water and there are still a number of significant projects waiting for this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2924	Thank you very much, Mr. Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2925	Dear gentlemen, we received the proposal for the Work Programme in August and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Work Programme for August-December 1999. The SDP MPs' club has expanded some 19 topics, I'm talking August. The work programme guarantees the fulfilment of all conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. 2. In full realization of the Madrid Declaration, I'm talking about those issues that come from the jurisdiction of this home. 3. European integration, various ratifications, I don't mean the European Union, because we are far from that integration and 4. The Stability Pact Declaration for Southeast Europe. This Work Programme has received significant support from this home and in our opinion it should be the basis for this home’s work programme. Instead, we have now received 2-3 new proposals again, and I just want to inform you, given that there is always a majority in Parliament for the adoption of the Work Programme, given the importance of all the questions for meeting the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, the realization of the Madrid Declaration whose deadlines have passed for many things and other issues, we remain with the Work Programme which has received significant support from this House, and this is the Work Programme proposed in the House of Representatives, extended to a number of issues as conditions for entry into the Council of Europe and the Madrid Declaration.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2926	Thank you very much, Ambassador Bogičević,
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2927	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want us to very precisely try to address the reasons why we are actually blocking the decision-making programme of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. In order to be able to remove the causes of the disagreement about verifying the Programme, which is quite clear that ultimately there will be a programme that implies the implementation of the obligations of the legislative body such as the House of Representatives to adopt laws stemming from the need for a country to work normally and function, and, of course, from our interests to go into European integration. Since the position should be replaced, above all, for the normal functioning of life and institutions in BiH, in the interests of citizens and peoples of BiH, and then for the interests of these citizens and that state, for integration into European and 187 other world organisations. This is how we should approach today's conversation about it, and not act like it's something that someone outside needs both our laws and our program, so as a result, we can end up agreeing when it's necessary or we'll agree, because in this relationship with the international community in which we are until 2002 and we wait, I guess, to end that deadline by 2002 to make it all expensive, simply, in a way, relativise and lead to absurdity. It's pretty clear here that we've had exactly what we've proposed so far. One program we started with. The second program was the one that offered SDP along with me combined, you have a magnetogram regarding the content of this proposal. Today we received another invitation to plead on Mr Genjac's programme, then Mr Skopljak and Banjac, together as MPs, making it impossible for this House to work. If three members of the Kolegijum disagree on one proposal, they then appear in the post of MPs, either in two or on their own, as programme promoters who have certain differences, but which prevent the management of the work of the BiH Parliamentary House on one of the key points of work, it is the adoption of the programme. No ship could ever be driven so that one would drag on one side, two on the other side, and all three would have their visions where and how the ship should go and which way, and to find themselves in a port or to sail. It can't just, it's unnatural. We have now also received a reminder from Mr Silajdžić of his demands stemming from his parliamentary role, that is, his role as co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers and the man who came up with three versions of the proposal. One offering as the Council of Ministers of BiH, the other offering through the law, as an MP, and a third as a requirement to declare the OHR proposal, which is a compromise proposal, accepted by the BiH Council of Ministers. In a situation like this, a reasoned body, such as the Parliamentary House of BiH, should call on the College, not to agree further, but to take a break, to suspend the work of the House of Representatives at the moment and to invite representatives of the clubs of MPs of different coalitions and independent MPs, to try to put forward a proposal before the House to decide which is indeed a serious solution to get us out of this. Because if Mr. from the College stays with our proposals, we get a vote on Mr. Banjac and Mr. Skopljak's proposal, and then we get Mr. Genjac's vote, and then Mr. Silajdžić's motion to vote, in the end, the SDP gentlemen have informed us that they remain firmly in their best programme, which is the only solution to all of this that we are facing. I suggest next. We must come to the point that, as a House of Representatives, we show the ability to adopt our own work programme, which is the first, primary and sole goal. If this discussion continues in this style and holding a session, here each MP will come up with his proposal from a different position and we do not have a solution. It is impossible to reach any agreement if everyone remains in their solutions. Reasonable policy requires an agreement based on the basis of the responsibility of this home, and the foundation is the Madrid Conference, and it is also the basis for entering the Council of Europe, the obligations defined in the programme's proposals set out so far. It is impossible for someone today to offer a programme simply to break out of the face of concrete laws, the concrete obligations of BiH to ourselves and to Europe. For me, such a proposal can't work. There are several proposals here that are consistent in this regard. There is a certain political will to adopt the programme at today's session. I think it would be rational to try to make such a single proposal, which is quite clear, cannot go below the basic minimum, if it has already been defined ten times in this House. Mr Silajdžić has expressed what is minimum in his opinion. The most important thing that has happened since early August to this day, in my opinion, was last session, when we finally received information that the BiH Council of Ministers has accepted a compromise proposal in line with the OHR. Therefore, we have a decision-making base. All of these suggestions, all of these variations, variations, factually, are spinning, as I would say, hot-coughing, someone's looking for a simple reason not to do something. It's true that we have a basis for deciding. Let us try to identify ourselves and not convince each other that we have a smarter proposal because we have one or more laws and one more, better formulation in our proposal. I see no reason not to take full trust in what is a compromise reached by the BiH Council of Ministers that proposes laws and what the OHR has offered. Further information from Mr. Bičakčić, in fact, says there is a first time expressed another kind of political will. It is obvious that parts of BiH, the Federation of BiH and RS, will not be able to lead any policy unless there are serious policies at BiH level and there are no solutions and resolutions if BiH's position is not identified through what was the basic foundation and agreement between the Council and the OHR, and therefore we call on you to find a way out of this and try to adopt it today with full confidence in each other.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2928	Thank you very much, here we are. poslanik Špirić. I realized that you had some kind of suggestion. Let's take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2929	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, try to lead the debate in terms of seeking compromise, because it seems that only a compromise leads to some solution and I must say to my colleague Spahić, the best work programme will be the one that gets most of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's representative council, it will be the only valid programme that we will have to implement. Another thing I'd like to ask. I ask the Office of the High Representative, please, as an MP, not to reach out to the implementation of legal projects and to further punish BiH, because the MPs, this House of Representatives, will never get serious about seeking a compromise until there is the possibility of announcing the law. This will best help BiH and BiH citizens, bringing to the public the elected representatives who do not want or will not compromise and even on the electoral programme. What seems to me to be logical and that BiH's public today could be informed that we have adopted the Work Programme, I just need to draw attention to you that for the sake of the public that this Representative Council in November brings to the November of 1999 a programme for November with a set of legislation for which I, as an MP, would be happy to bring them to the end of our term and perhaps it would be good, as serious, responsible people, to talk about the November 1990 programme. - November 2000, to face the public and say that we are ready to work on agreeing and adopting such important legal projects. I have the impression that these two proposals, of course, are not 189 rejecting the possibility of discussing everyone else in the process, from the SDP programme to the programme that Mr Spahić says has agreed with the SDP, but it seems to me that these two proposals we have received, so Mr Banjac and Mr Skopljak, as well as Mr Genjac, are broadly in line. Do you really need to be so blind that you don't see that we're ahead of the adoption of the program? The difference between these two papers is that one wants legal solutions to be listed, and the other says all the legal projects that the BiH Council of Ministers has agreed on before this Representative Council will be discussed. It's essentially the same thing, except someone has this or that need when they're discussing it. It seems to me that the closest proposal was, which I will personally support, Professor Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2930	I'm asking the MP to just stop for a minute, I'd like to welcome Mr. Bloetzer and Mrs. Jaatteenmaki, they're joining us right now, thank you very much. We're just discussing, waiting for the translator to introduce the guests into the session. Dear gentlemen, I welcome you once again on behalf of the BiH House of Representatives. I'll brief you on the session. We're just discussing a proposal for a work programme. The process of alignment is under way. We are currently in the process of agreeing on different proposals, MP Špirić is trying to propose a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2931	In the end, I wanted to conclude that I support Professor Branko Dokić's proposal, which is essentially a compromise solution and that today, the BiH public at least we are pleased that we are able to adopt the Work Programme of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, by saying that it would be logical that this programme contains a somewhat longer time scale. What my particular point is about one proposal and another is that under 7. The law of the BiH state vault bears the title of the BiH Institution's Treasury Act. Why do I tell this guy? I am also a member of the expert commission formed by the Council of Ministers of BiH with the help of the US Treasury and with the help of representatives of the international community, we agreed that this would be a proposal for this legislative project, the Law on the Treasury of BiH institutions, as it also speaks in the BiH Constitution and talks about BiH institutions. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2932	This is where we talk about the need to make a deal. It's like we haven't made a deal before. What have we been doing for three years? Excuse me, I understand the discussion that we need to agree as one of the ways to delay making this very important decision. As you know, we have been in the BiH Council of Ministers for a very long time. As you know, we agreed here in Parliament and we couldn't agree. When all the possibilities were exhausted, the Office of the High Representative suggested what we call here today a compromise. The BiH Council of Ministers accepted the proposal by the Office of the High Representative. Now we're talking about some compromises again, which means we need to discuss it for the next three years. This 190 MP here is not ready for that. We worked on it for three years, and we couldn't agree. The High Representative's office said, this is what you should have done already, based on Madrid's conclusions, you haven't done that, and this is our proposal, this is what you found in Dayton, and this is what needs to be done. The BiH Council of Ministers accepted the proposal because we ourselves could not reach the proposal. Parliament could not reach that programme. That is why I repeat again, I am voting on this very proposal from the Office of the High Representative, which is identical with the Council of Ministers' proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2933	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2934	I don't know if we've all been to all the sessions and listened to everyone who spoke, but I'd like to remind you of the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives when we couldn't get to the programme. The conclusion is: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to draw up its proposal for a programme and seek OHR's statement on the programme. A discussion was postponed at two meetings of the House of Representatives until agreement was reached between the OHR and the BiH Council of Ministers. For the first time, we received a written notice that the BiH Council of Ministers found a common language with the OHR and that is the only basis on which we can decide. My contribution to today's debate is not to delay but to agree, to respect our own conclusions and to invite the chairman, Mr Banjac, Skopljak and Genjac, to withdraw their proposals and not to complicate the statement of the programme, and to the SDP gentlemen to withdraw the optics of their proposal again, because there is no reason why, today, they re-launched it as a proposal, I suggest it for these reasons, which our agreement was, we voted, of course. It was our great political will to adopt the SDP proposal. We agreed in most of the programme, almost identically individual MPs, that was the statement. After all, we got an answer that's positive, in my opinion, for decision-making. We received the agreement of the BiH Council of Ministers and the OHR's consent. There is no reason to burden today's session with the proposals of three members of the House of Representatives. I call on Parliament to declare the conclusion we have reached. We'll put our programme to the vote, to have the Council and OHR's consent, and that's what we have and that's what we're talking about, and it's not about quoting 5-6 new proposals, and that's my point of view. As far as the BiH Assembly programme is concerned, if we do not approach this way today, we are, in fact, tearing down two basic bases for joining the Council of Europe, for European integration and for any kind of political activity. On the one hand, I repeat, we are making it impossible for BiH and the cities and villages and regions and entities to work in the interests of the citizens and peoples of BiH, which is the primary interest in the adoption of programmes and laws. That's why we asked for a debate on economic and social policy. We did not ask her to talk again about difficulties without any solution, to pass laws and to follow their implementation. Today I said that for the first time, after last session, that representatives of those parts of BiH that recognise work, face problems, have publicly stated that it is necessary for the House of Representatives to move on to the adoption of laws that create political, economic and any other environment for economic, political and other agreements with Evropa and the world. Let us not lose sight of that no 191 solution beyond this can provide us with any political future and at least economic and social security to the citizens. I don't see any reason why in one of the pillars of work and the actions of the BiH Parliament, it's a programme, we don't perform in a way that is rational, that was the reason for my reporting. I ask you to withdraw your proposals in the interest of BiH and your personal interest. If you want to run this home in a way that suits BiH's interests. There is no vote of confidence for the BiH Council of Ministers, and then when it comes out with the programme, what kind of programme is and is in line with the international community, it's all in question again, so it's, you know, a chain round that we can spin all you want. My interest, as an MP, was to support a programme that has not only greater political support from clubs, MPs, etc. but who expresses the essential interests and needs of citizens and peoples, not the way we've done it so far. We can talk for another six months about a program that's between November and December. I don't think it's a compromise if it's said to be a programme with such a serious approach from November to November next year. It's clear that it's November to November, so let's not question it. It's clear that in two months, you can't do what's been done for two years and three, but then it's an obligation for all of us to squeeze down a little bit, pull out a manual and stop, in a way, behind what's the rational choice of laws and decisions we have to make. This is expected of us, by the citizens, underlining, and no more by Europe and the world. There is nothing in Europe and the world that we will continue to discuss here with them if there is no valid interest in the citizens, and their interests are in the laws. He will not live in Norway, Sweden or in another country, France, Italy, Germany under these laws, but BiH citizens will live. My proposal is, let us be clear about what an agreement has been reached between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the OHR, because it was our compromise, our agreement and our conclusion. You can look at the magnetogram, it's a precise conclusion and there were no other solutions. I'm completely surprised by the college's proposals and that's why I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2935	Thank you very much. And the MP tried to make his constructive discussion to contribute to solving this problem, of course, it's his seeing things, and does anyone else want to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2936	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have often heard a statement going according to plan, only the plan is wrong. Don't mind me saying this in the first sentence. I believe that today there is a solution to which it is possible to bring all MPs together to support this work programme. Basically, it doesn't even make sense the full work of any body that wants to function meaningfully if it doesn't have any work programme. It's an elemental thing. The work programme must exist. It seems to me, in previous discussions held here and here, held at Council of Ministers meetings, that two extreme positions could be differentiated. First, there were as many laws as possible, as many regulations, to prove our sovereignty as the state should. On the other hand, as few regulations as possible, the less laws to prove our sovereignty as to how this country should be as small as possible. Probably, like all other things in life, the truth is somewhere in the middle. During the debate at the BiH Council of Ministers, we came to a proposal that basically tried to be compromise, 192, however, it was again not accepted as a compromise as it is today, and therefore we co-chaired and chaired, through talks with representatives of the Office of the High Representative, primarily through legal opinions on which institutions are necessary in accordance with the Constitution, so that in general BiH could function as an internationally recognised entity, on the one hand, and on the other hand, as an entity that could meet essential conditions when it enters the process of international integration. This also led to the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for the period, not until the end of this year, but to the period until probably November of next year, so until the end of a term of office. That is why my first proposal would be for you tonight if the BiH Parliamentary Assembly had been determined to bring a work programme for the next 12 or 13 months. Which means now the program by the end of the year, up to which there's still a little less than a month of effective work. What's with the program? There would be a lot of controversy here, which the Council of Ministers of BiH, which is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so normally that the programme is being done together, pretends in every country that the executive body of the parliamentary assembly together with the parliamentary assembly is building a programme. If, for example, the BiH Council of Ministers has a question in March then the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has this in its work programme in April, so, a month later, it is normal things that the programme is being drawn together. The programme must also be conducted by the BiH Council of Ministers in accordance with the guidelines of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. However, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly must have guidance on how it will work, we said that last time, this still has not been brought by this Parliamentary Assembly. I think it is not good to say that the programme is being created because the terms of the Council of Europe are being set, that is our commitment, whether we will meet these conditions or not. The program is made, first of all, because of these people sitting here and those who have given confidence to the people sitting here. In this respect, the programme is necessary to bring. I believe that the compromise is both honorable and elegant for all the representatives, all the political... and all the national features, to bring the programme to the end of the term of office, to be the basis of this programme to be the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, which is a compromise proposal, he is therefore not 100% on the line of those who ask for as much as possible, nor those who say as little as possible, we all know and we all know what someone expects at the base when it comes, whether you have the right to raise your hand or not, therefore, we all know the limitations that exist for all of us. I believe that this is an honorable, fair outcome and that this is a good decision and, in this regard, I believe that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College, possibly, could still be held tonight through the work programme of the BiH Council of Ministers, along with some other points not contained in the programme, there are some analytical materials, some information that is not available in the Council of Ministers' Work Programme to supplement this and that tomorrow, at the beginning of tomorrow's session, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts the programme. It is impossible to adopt any raw act at a session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly unless the programme has passed the appropriate bodies. Parliament is usually voted or declared on amendments. There's no basis for any statement here now. We can talk for hours tonight about something that doesn't exist. If we were to conclude this way, I think we would come to a solution that tomorrow this Parliamentary Assembly will receive its work programme by the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2937	Thank you very much, Minister Prlić in an effort to reach a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2938	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we have been discussing this for three months now and it is indeed high time for once, responsibly, to those, above all, who have chosen us to make this program. I don't think there's any need for any delays for tomorrow, it can be done today. However, before a concrete proposal, I would remind only that the BiH Council of Ministers programme does not oblige Parliament, we confirmed this today within the first item of the agenda when it is proposed that we do not plead again, because it is not in our competence, it is, gentlemen, that you have all accepted. You are now referring to the BiH Council of Ministers Programme. The Council of Ministers will work on its programme and what is for Parliament, it will come in a regular procedure for this parliament. I would now not add anything to what I have already suggested, but I would call again on Mr Spahić's proposal, which asked for a break within which the College of Chairmans would meet with all representatives of MPs and individuals, to give a time of 40 minutes which, I am convinced, is enough to bring what is not in line. There is only one small step missing and I warn you not to think, if something like this, by name and last name, has entered the program, that it will be accepted. We rely too much on what we have to say now. We think it'll be a fail-safe process, it won't be a fail-safe. I support this proposal, which has already been tabled to take a 40-minute break, and that the College and representatives of the parliamentary groups agree on how to complete the job around this point in ten minutes. I'm convinced we can do it and we have to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2939	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, I want, here, as an MP, I am one of the proposings, along with MP Skopljak, and there is no problem with me withdrawing the proposal and asking my fellow Skopljak to withdraw the proposal in order to find a solution. But I have to ask you, why some individuals here are so nervous, and they're in such a hurry and they don't run away from any harsh words and threatening words that I'm not afraid to say in advance, but they have to worry first, not me, not me in any way. I'm ready, here, gentlemen, here, to withdraw the proposal. Mr. Skopje, do you agree? Here, after the break. Here, I am prepared to do so in order to find a solution, but I must ask you what happens in the BiH Parliament if the representatives of one nation, no matter what people and whatever foreigners they are, have certain reserves according to some solutions, no matter which foreigners and what people, I speak for one, second and third people of this moment, and this is happening here, and don't let me know in front of your eyes who you're going to label on, I know that, but let me finish, too. So, here, gentlemen who say it's the SDS, we don't influence it, you can bring it in whenever you want the program, you have most of it, and you can do it, but I, as a representative of the SDS, Your Honor, am withdrawing my proposal for compromise, and you don't. You, sir, will not withdraw the proposal, who is cooperative here and who is not? I'm withdrawing the proposal, sir, and, here, there's no suggestion. I did propose that we look for him together right now, and I think we should find a compromise, but, gentlemen, please, compromise takes two at least. I'm sure you have one of the members of the College in me. I'm ready to compromise. I'm ready to do it. Here, Mr. Dokić suggested that we define the point (a) as he said, without a word, I accept his proposal, I will vote right away. I'm not going out of this room and I'm asking you, what's not contained in what's not contained in all of our 194 programs? It is necessary to go out here and say, in this proposal it is not contained and it is not to tell stories here that we have said that we will wait for the programme of the Council of Ministers of BiH and that it will be our programme, and now I am looking for that conclusion, I am looking for him, now he will come, but please, will someone here apologize for the untruth that was told behind this pay phone, only when that information comes. Don't, gentlemen, to deceive the public of BiH, I'm for compromise, look for it to go together, this moment can be a compromise. Thank you. Tokić, here you go. Well, there's a replica. He's pulling the line. He's withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2940	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think that no one here who is present could see a drastic difference in the tone of story and conversation, a discussion before the entry of the esteemed gentlemen from the Council of Europe and after their entry into this hall. I purposely point out that because I am very afraid that behind these declarative preparedness for compromises, the declarative commitment to BiH's inclusion in the Council of Europe, there is a good part of the game, already recognizable in the Balkans, as a kind of hypocrisy. Let's start with two assumptions. The BiH Council of Ministers proposes a proposal for a programme of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Whether the BiH Council of Ministers has its parliamentary majority, if there is, gentlemen, I am ready to vote, but don't let us see how Jadranko Prlić is going to convince Mr. Per Skopljak to accept his proposal for a bill, a proposal for a programme, or how he now has a huge problem to convince Mr. Silajdžić of Mr. Halid Genjac that he should accept the proposal, that is one concept. Second concept. When the SDP proposed a comprehensive programme that included all the requirements of the Madrid Declaration and everything that is an obligation to join the Council of Europe, the proposal was not adopted, blocked by a group of MPs here, had a parliamentary majority, had no entity majority. Then we concluded, let the College take part in its burden, let three people in this college make a proposal, however, there is no proposal. It's going back to the mechanism. Two men three proposals, three men two proposals, one ministry of four opinions, five ministries, and all of this is being thrown out behind the declarative application we want in the Council of Europe. I agree. Let's take a break. The practice of this Parliament has shown that these proposals are best passed, as a rule, when to take a break, but let's use this break honestly, not only formally bring the proposal. Earlier, one MP spoke and said “people, anything written in the program does not mean that we will do so, we do not need that program. ” Let's see who just spoke like that. We don't need that program to be a farce of paper that we're going to give to the Council of Europe. We want a program to do something about it. Some breaks, the SDP was ready to compromise, but not below the level that includes BiH in the Council of Europe at the same time. Let me take this opportunity. Here you have private, Mr Silajdžić, a statement that BiH will withdraw this request for admission to the Council of Europe. In whose name was it given? Whoever dares this BiH, after hypocritical and two-faced and open, sincere support for admission to the Council of Europe, self-initiatively gives, however, no politician, it is abuse. Therefore, I agree with the break, the SDP will contribute to the break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2941	Thank you very much, Ambassador Tokić. I think the conditions have been created to take a break, but we suggest the following way, that no members, presidents of parliamentary clubs, members of the College, presidents of parliamentary clubs, representatives of parties who do not have parliamentary clubs, and, if there are, independent MPs, and I don't think there are any, so, party representatives. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry to bother our distinguished guests a little bit with our break, but, I mean, it's all about finding a solution. Please rest until 5:00. At 5:00, follow-up. Please keep the representatives listed here. MPs, distinguished guests, I suggest we continue our work. [[PAUZA]] Since there was an observation that the Kolegijum did not agree with its position, here, we agreed within five minutes. Now we'll see if you support what we've agreed on. Since the Service is not able to multiply material so quickly, because it is mainly, the material is already in the multiplication process, I will read you a program of work that has been unanimously agreed by the Kolegijum. Of course, I'll read everything, you'll recognize the part that's already with you and most of that program is with you. Let me just tell them the legislative activity, first of all is 1. BiH Election Law, 2. Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH, 3. Law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, 4. Law on recognition of the importance of public documents, 5. Law on State Service in BiH Institutions, 6. Law on the BiH Treasury, 7. Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, 8. Law on ratification and implementation of international contracts, international conventions, 9. BiH holiday law, 10. Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Debt Act, 11. BiH budget for 2000, 12. Law on the implementation of the BiH Budget for 2000, 13. Decisions on granting consent to ratification of international agreements. Point 15 is: The House of Representatives will discuss the following laws by the end of the year which regulate issues from the competence of BiH's joint institutions, and the preparation of the BiH Council of Ministers will include: 1. Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, with an explanation given by the Venice Commission, 2. Law on the BiH Prosecutor's Office, with the same explanation 3. Law on BiH's Defence 4. Law on Public Administration of BiH 5. The BiH Administrative Dispute Act, the State Service Act, is mentioned twice, I apologize, and we will accept this second, because we accept its argument, the first one will be deleted, 6. BiH Labour Relations Act, 7. Border service law. 196 It's about legislative activity and we don't have any more. I wouldn't read any further, now all the rest is with you. That's what we gave consent to. I don't think I need to read. You have, here, see, there's already one optimistic statement that we can do it all the way, please, I suggest it this way. It's been hard for you to follow, if anyone has only a proposal to amend the name of a law, but I don't think that's important right now, we can do it in the process of passing that law, considering. Here, I made the proposal, I'm opening the debate. Is anyone answering for a hearing? This is a unanimously agreed proposal to the Kolegijum, and that's how it's going to be in the working version, I don't think that's disputed. I think, Mr. Špirić, if that's how the task force accepted it, there's no reason why we shouldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2942	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have come to a coherent proposal, but I have turned my attention to the fact that it would be good, knowing who we are, when legislation is being done, about every legislative project, that we would not just listen to the debate that it was adopted and that there are no corrections. I therefore warn that the working group, primarily the Treasury Group, with the help of the US Treasury and the international bank, has come up with a proposal sent to the BiH Council of Ministers to make it the Law on the Treasury of BiH, in line with the BiH Constitution. If there won't be any of these remarks I was talking about, the least important thing right now is the working title of the law, in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2943	I must tell you that our practice has shown that during the process of passing legal acts we have changed the name and I mean the Constitutional Commission, in the course of the debate, I think it is our common position and that no one can claim that it is not. So, that's okay. Is there anyone else who would like to report for the discussion? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Please, number of present, 30. The votes of 30 MPs. When it comes to the proposal for a work programme until the end o.g.? I want to congratulate the MPs on this opportunity. This is the first decision to be made unanimously. Thank you very much. I'm concluding this point. You might get this program by the end of the session, if you don't get it, you'll get it before the session starts tomorrow. There's no need when it's unanimous. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Report of PSBiH parliamentary delegations in the European and other international bodies. You've got the materials. I don't prejudge the order. I ask the chairman's delegation to come forward and give a brief presentation. Mr. Bičakčić. You've got the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2944	On behalf of the PSBiH Parliamentary Delegation in the Council of Europe, I would like to say a few words. You have received material and it presents a report on the work of this delegation this year. I'd like to supplement it with the activities that happened in the meantime that didn't get into this report. I also want to welcome again, from here, the High Delegation, the 197 Council of Europe rapporteurs, in front of the Political Committee and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights. They visited us here during October and are again visiting the state parliament of BiH. I am unusually glad that this time they are witnesses and progress made at the state level in terms of the work of the state parliament which, finally, has its own programme of work and which still has an obligation to strengthen and strengthen its services by the end of the year, so that all commissions can work at full capacity. I also want to inform you about the events of the last 15 days in the Council of Europe. Our delegation was present, i.e. participated in a meeting of the Political Committee of the Council of Europe where BiH's request was discussed and where we had the opportunity to get to know the rapporteur's reports on legal issues and political issues of the Commission on Legal Affairs and the Commission on Political Affairs. Mr. Blacer made an extraordinary report in which he found progress made at all points, i.e. by those points where he was actually made and pointed out the difficulties we face. I think this report brings us closer to our common goal, which is the opening of the door to the Council of Europe. The report was discussed at a meeting of the Political Committee and I believe it will be held again at the next session of the 15th of this month. I would only like to refer, in front of the entire Parliament, the requirement for the Political Committee to go towards the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as soon as possible, as soon as possible, to find our request for full membership on the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think I share your opinion in full, all political parties and positions and opposition, and that this represents a strong boost to democratic flows in BiH, too, that this represents a strong message for our environment, for the entire region of Southeast Europe, where, in terms of realising the objectives of the Stability Pact, the democratisation of this region would be a fundamental step, and we will come to it with a lot of work and denial. Thank you very much for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2945	Thank you, too. Here, we've heard the addition of Mr. Bičakčić's report. I suggest that all applicants submit the report first, and we will have general questions and discussions afterwards. Will a lady now, an MP, Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2946	I thank you, esteemed representatives and guests. I attended a parliamentary conference of SEE countries in Prague from 6th to 10th last month. I must also point out this occasion that our delegation was incomplete. You certainly know that there have been some reasons and problems regarding the departure of our parliamentary delegations to the SEE meeting, and I would also take this opportunity to ask that in the future, which I stated in this report, these delegations are sent in full co-operation, given that in this way each country, each of the 16 countries represented in the SEE, with translators and with secretaries, has been presented. This time I was alone, and earlier, at a session held before that, no one was in front of BiH. That's something I'd like to initiate. I think the means, and that seems to be, the problem shouldn't be the reason why our country shouldn't be represented at such significant events. 198 I would also like to underline here that it was then found that, in the five working groups that exist at the SEE, it was represented, of course, in some order that I would not be talking about here, every member state of the SEE. In one of these groups, however, BiH should be gone. I'm the one who brought it here. It is necessary for Parliament, or possibly for the College to do so, to appoint a representative of BiH at the Commission to monitor the activities of the Working Group for the Reconstruction and Reconstruction of BiH and Croatia, that is the name of the commission. Finally, I would like to say something that I did not mention in this report, and I forgot, on the proposal of the Italian Parliament, of an delegation, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Dimension of the SEE, so that the current Parliamentary Conference has obtained the status of the Parliamentary Assembly of the SEE, is now a Parliamentary Assembly, not a Parliamentary Conference of the SEE. This name change does not require technical, organisational changes, nor additional costs, so much, only knowledge works. One more thing, there were fifteen projects under one of these commissions, there were 15 different projects already given to the SEE. One of these projects is the arrangement of Sarajevo airport. I think that our parliamentary delegation, especially this representative on this committee, which we should urgently appoint, should be engaged on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2947	Thank you, Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2948	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished guests, I will briefly say something about the participation of the BiH parliamentary delegation in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which normally includes three members in front of the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Mr. Miodrag Deretić, Mr. Vladimir Šoljić and my little one. Otherwise, the BiH parliamentary delegation's presence in this international organisation is being held at two levels, as part of its participation in the Standing Committee, which, otherwise, always starts at the beginning of the year, prepares certain acts, initiatives, and sets out the basis of the agenda for the annual meeting of the OSCE parliamentary session, which, as a rule, takes place in the middle of the year. During 1999, the annual assembly was held in St. Petersburg, Russia. The next, in 2000, is planned to take place in Romania's capital, Bucharest. I can say one thing: for the first time in our complete composition, we joined the last annual assembly that took place in St. Petersburg, Russia. At this performance, for the first time in a full session after Dejton, certain, so to speak, the conceptual political differences between the individual members of our parliamentary delegation, which has made me, as a member of this parliamentary delegation, an invitation to initiate with the Commission for External Relations, to say, on the basis of the main, basic principles of foreign policy of BiH, define some basic set-up, some basic principles that must be in the ranks of all our representatives within the parliamentary delegations that come forward in Europe. In particular, let's say that Mr Deretić and I have been discussing whether a member of the BiH Parliamentary delegation can speak on behalf of the entity, a particular political party, a certain nationality, and I have run this issue as one of the very important things about which this foreign political committee should be able to address, where some principles should be defined and only on the basis of which it would be possible for us, within this three-member delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the OSCE, to define a platform for each of our next appearances, and when it comes to the Standing Committee, which is normally convened in Vienna in January or February, and when it comes to a stand-up, respectively, participation in the OSCE Annual Parliamentary Assembly where it is mandatory to attend the entire national delegation. Only on the basis of the principles so established, will we be able to define our platform based on which we could submit a comprehensive report for this distinguished home. If that's not possible, if that's not possible, we can only say in a partial way that we're making our observations, some of our so-called. individual political impressions and I will just point out, at that thematic session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, I have submitted one review of myself, more than one informative review of the main important features of last meeting of the OSCE Annual Assembly in St. Petersburg, and I have contributed as a material here after the discussion, with the possibility that my presentation can be copied and multiplied by all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2949	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, representatives of the Council of Europe, allow me to submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation with the 102nd Interparliamentary Union meeting held in Berlin of 10. - 16 o.g. First of all. I would like to congratulate Europe and the citizens of Germany on the fall of the Berlin Wall. It was an extraordinary moment when so many delegations came from 139 countries to 102. The conferences discuss global economic, social, political changes in the world. Resolutions were adopted on human rights, on the global model of financing the economy and... minorities, cultural religious tolerance and at the conference we had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the BiH Parliament delegation. We met with the host country, SR Germany and the head of the Jordan delegation, the host of 103. Interparliamentary Union conferences as well as bilateral contacts with several different countries during this meeting. The official meeting with the Secretary-General of the Interparliamentary Union of Andres... and with representatives of the Interparliamentary Union, he orders with two open options for this parliament. 1. It is agreed that we propose to the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament and the House of Peoples to consider calling on the Secretary-General and the President of the Interparliamentary Union to visit BiH. 2. To open the possibility for the next few years both the BiH Parliament and the Interparliamentary Union delegation to host such a meeting as the annual Interparliamentary Union Conference. Of course, this should go beyond parliamentary procedure, to get conditions in the coming years in order to ensure dialogue with the parliaments of the world. I would like to inform you that we have paid particular attention to the presentation of the political, economic and social situation in our country and the presentation of the resolution on European integration and the Southeast Stability Pact. The PSBiH here, unlike 200 other institutions, has a chance to allow all political parties, all coalitions, to be an integral part of the delegation when it comes to establishing a delegation of the Interparliamentary Union, to vote differently in the Interparliamentary Union on issues which are the original positions of a particular political group or party in the BiH Parliament. If the Interparliamentary Union and the working bodies that involve a very serious foundation are established, we could express the political will of the citizens of BiH in the right way and in the Interparliamentary Union. I think it's important because, apart from the joint performances, the Commission's working platform, it actually contributes to the world's political parliamentary scene of a particular kind of diplomacy, it's parliamentary diplomacy. I find it inadmissible that at such meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in the BiH Delegation, at least 50% of the representatives, ladies, members of the BiH Parliament are not present. There is one parallel conference led by Mrs. Leni Fišer, which was recently the President of the Council of Europe, which is a great friend of BiH and whose presence in the Interparliamentary Union is indeed another confirmation that the pekinški Declaration on the presence of women in parliaments can make governments different than it is in the world today. BiH currently, according to reports from the Sarajevo Round Table, under the chairmanship of Mr. Beri and Sonja Lokar, is aheading for example. in relation to Slovenia in this respect and in relation to many other countries, but BiH currently does not have a single woman in the ministerial position, at the level of the BiH Council of Ministers, at the entity level a very small number, there are very few women who run responsible restaurants at canton level or are chiefs. By completing this report, I invite you to accept the information of the delegation they have done, except me, Mr. Pero Mađar, with the presence of His Excellency, the ambassador to SR Germany, Anton Balković. Please bear in mind our responsibility to prepare for the Amanic Conference immediately and show that the BiH Parliament, indeed, is a democratic, willful parliament chosen by the citizens of BiH from representatives of different political options and that they have the opportunity, equally, on the domestic stage as well as on the world stage to represent the views of citizens as citizens of the world and... BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2950	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2951	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, before I move on to a part of the report relating to this point, instead of a replica of one previous replica, I'm going to tell you an anecdote. When Muhamed’s followers asked why he forbade alcoholic beverages, then he told them the best drink was when you swallowed an evil word or word of confusion. My fellow Members, the Commission for Foreign Policy, i.e. one delegation from the Commission for Foreign Policy, visited the Foreign Policy Committee of the German Parliament from 28th to 30th, and I would like to stress that we had the honour of attending the first meeting of the German Parliament's Foreign Political Committee in the restored old spaces in Berlin. In addition to the meeting with the complete Foreign Policy Committee, 201 we had very high-level talks within the German Parliament, 6-7 different talks and, in short, they are very interested in everything that is going on in BiH, of course, are interested in a faster implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. They are ready to provide, in this respect, any assistance both economically and politically. It seems to me that it is up to us, that it is more than we know how to use it, but in order to take advantage of it, we must do it as soon as possible, both at the level of both entities and at the level of the BiH state, to adopt legal and economic norms that will enable such one support that is promised from Germany. After that meeting, the Foreign Policy Commission had, after that visit, several more meetings and at one of those meetings we agreed to send a request to the German Parliament's Foreign Political Committee to visit our committee here in Sarajevo by the end of this year. We have proposed that it be by the end of this year and that it be one of our activities in preparation for the European Parliament's meeting in Strasbourg in January, where I hope BiH will also be discussed in a permanent membership of the Council of Europe. We hope that our German friends will fully support us in this regard. The conclusion of today's meeting of the Foreign Policy Commission is that, through the Assembly, we ask the BiH Foreign Ministry for information on the activities and fill-in of the DKP. We are aware of the fact that, under the Constitution of BiH, we are not in charge of deciding this, but, as the Foreign Policy Committee, we have the right to ask for information and, in particular, that things are not going, lightly speaking, democratic but certainly do not go in favour of BiH either. We want that information to contain the principles on which some parties, these here in the Federation of BiH and in the RS, have no difference what criteria they are handling and as far as these are concerned. It is also concluded that the reports of all our delegations, assembly delegations meeting with various foreign policy committees or institutes in the world, should go through the Commission for Foreign Policy and, of course, to the Assembly if they are to go to the Assembly. We have also expressed a slight dissatisfaction with the relatively weak co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we believe that this coordination should be made more pronounced, especially when these are issues coming to the Assembly's agenda, we think that the Commission should be informed first, and then Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2952	Ambassador, just one question. Did you ask for the House's conclusion on the fulfillment of the DKP's principles and faces, in conclusion, that we are looking as the Assembly for Your Use.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2953	That is why we went through the Assembly, not through the Commission, and we believe that it is a very serious issue and has the right and the Assembly, through our commission, to be informed about it. 202
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2954	Thanks, I'll give it to you later. Dear gentlemen, I'll only submit one brief report. Dear gentlemen, esteemed guests, honourable MPs, at the invitation of the German Parliament, Bundestag and Bundesrat, in the period from 5th to 7th September 1999, Mr Žigić, as chairman of the House of Peoples, and I, as chairman of the House of Representatives, participated in the celebration of these two homes of the Parliament of Germany. The celebration had a solemn character, and it is dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the existence of the Republic of Germany. In all activities, according to the protocol, we both participated, we had no special contacts with foreign delegations, just to tell you that representatives of the parliaments of the Member States of the Council of Europe, 36 countries, members of the G8 and representatives of the European Parliament participated in the work of the Conference. I express my gratitude to the German Federal Parliament for the invitation and presence of the PSBiH delegation. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, we've exhausted all the reports. Any questions or comments?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2955	Ladies and gentlemen, I expected the president of our foreign policy commission to highlight some of the things we discussed on the committee. It seems to me that we have seen this unanimously there, and these are certain gaps which, with the views of this Parliament, should be clearly eliminated. First of all, it should be determined, at least we have such information, that it is not finished until the end of the constitution of the committees themselves, that means that the heads of delegations, etc., that is one thing, one job which seems to me must be completed as soon as possible. The second thing that is very important, which Mr Jahić has highlighted here, where we have also agreed, which is that we should define common platforms for the performance of these delegations at the meeting. We have had a situation of very different opinions, that we cannot represent the position of this home as a whole, etc., which should also be eliminated in the next period. The third thing, which is very important, which is this, seems to me that the President of the Commission has somewhat highlighted, which is the organisational monitoring of the work of these delegations, which means, I would say, both material and human resources, etc. to assist this delegation. These are three things I considered necessary to highlight, since they are almost a regular topic of debate on the commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2956	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? This concludes the debate, but before the debate is concluded, I'm just saying, if there's anyone else who'd like to say, go ahead. There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting all the reports in the statement kit. How many are there? 30, thank you. I'm putting all the adoption reports on file. Who's in? 25. Against. Five abstentions. We'll hold the vote until the end. By entities, from RS, who's 203 for? Eleven, thank you very much. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Thank you very much, we have the necessary entity majority. I understand the reports have been accepted. I now have one conclusion proposed by MP Dokić, reading the content of the conclusions. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the MP for a fill-up report in the DKPs, fill-in principles and persons in the DKP service. Who's in favor of this conclusion? 28. Abstention 2 against no. There's no need to vote entityally, considering such a large number for. I find that the conclusion has been accepted and, therefore, in writing, we will request a report from the MIP on the conclusion that has been voted on. Thank you very much. I'm also concluding this agenda point. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Realisation of the conclusions of the Resolution on European Integrations and the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe Please, MP Spahić, to submit an introductory presentation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2957	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, the Commission for Foreign Policy has been discussing today information on the implementation of the Parliamentary Assembly Resolution of BiH on European Integrations and the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe. On the basis of Article 2e) of the Interim Rules of Procedure, on 22 and 27 July 1999, considering BiH's role in European integration and preparations for the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, a resolution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on European integration and the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe was adopted. The international and foreign affairs commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives was the bearer of this initiative and the proposal for this text, which was discussed on two occasions in both Houses of the Assembly and was finally accepted as a document of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This is the information we have prepared today, made up of the same form as the Resolution itself. I want to say this: 1. The Commission found that the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, supporting the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council, were not so far, in line with their responsibilities and within the deadlines set before them, passed appropriate laws concerning their implementation. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly finds that the Committee of Representatives is home, that in the period since the adoption of the Resolution, the more active role of the BiH Presidency is on the international agenda, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in connection with BiH's accession to the Council of Europe's membership and agreements to join the European Union and join the World Trade Organisation. However, this activity does not monitor the proper political will for full transparency and co-ordination with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which we have observed today. 204 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not fully implemented its programme for the implementation of the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe and I am glad to be able to realise that we have adopted the programme today, which was one of the fundamental conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. The Parliamentary Assembly delegation to the Council of Europe today submitted a report adopted and we expect, too, information from representatives of the Council of Europe, who are with us today, on how BiH's accession process is progressing in the Council of Europe early next year or in the period defined. The state authorities, entity institutions, did not inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of their activities by September 1999, in accordance with the Constitution and the powers, regarding the accession to the Council of Europe, and we expect the report in writing. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly emphasises that the existing special relations between BiH and the EU, established by the EU Declaration in BiH, due to delays in the overall activity of the state authorities, still do not have that development dynamic that is of interest both to BiH and the EU, especially when it comes to economic recovery, reconstruction and construction of BiH, as well as standardisation in BiH that would allow harmonisation of legal and other acts with EU standards. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or the Commission on International and Foreign Affairs, discussed the reports of the representatives of Parliament in European and world associations, the delegation in the Council of Europe, the OSCE,... do not hold their regular meetings and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we recommend conclusions on what we have already done during the previous report. We believe it is necessary to provide the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with an overview of the commitments undertaken in the framework of bilateral and multilateral meetings, in order to determine the programme of activities, the organised appearance of our parliament in the world. There has been a lack of adequate preparation of our parliamentary delegations, a lack of appropriate staff accompanying the work of delegations and, in practice, there is no publicity in the public that such gatherings deserve because of their importance for our country. The Commission for Foreign Policy has not properly informed the DKP's work in the world, which we have just reached a conclusion on the president's proposal, Mr Dokić. Under the Southeast Stability Pact, the Commission has on several occasions considered and assessed the work and implementation of the meeting itself and the Sarajevo summit. The general assessment is that it was an exceptional historic event for both BiH and Southeast Europe and for Euro-Atlantic integration. Specifically, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has already expressed its support for the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe as its own peace, stability, development and integration project. 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly stressed the importance of the long-term process of strengthening co-operation in the region of Europe and the world in order to strengthen trust and ensure regional security, in preventing new conflicts, strengthening democracy, human rights, co-operation in all areas of life and work. 205 BiH delegations, as you know from the public, took part in the inaugural meeting of the Regional Committee in Brussels, as well as in meetings of the Working Table for Economic Reconstruction on Development and Corruption in Bari, the Work Table for Security Issues in Oslo and the Working Table on Human Rights Democratisation in Geneva. 2. It is necessary that the BiH Presidency, appointed by delegations, and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, present the results of the work of the working tables and the regional table to the BiH Parliament, especially considering that BiH will, in the beginning of next year, play a role as host of the Work Table for Security Issues, which is why it should be prepared, and within the framework of our commission, the BiH Parliament, the Council of Ministers and other bodies, the programme of obligations and activities of BiH institutions. 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly stressed the importance of co-operation with parliaments in the Pact's participating countries, but did not develop appropriate bilateral and multilateral activities within the framework of parliamentary diplomacy. 4. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has only developed certain activities with the Office of the High Representative and the OSCE Mission, the UN, the EU and other DKPs, government and non-governmental organisations in BiH. 5. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly did not make full use of all the opportunities of its delegations and working bodies to step up international support for BiH. Six. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly stressed the importance of developing good relations with neighbouring countries in order to strengthen peace, stability, economic and demographic development and the protection of human rights and freedoms. Seven. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in particular, expressed interest in restoring and catching up with lost paces in development and expectations that BiH will provide support for economically developed countries, on a partner basis, not, as so far, at a donor conference. Such an approach requires the creation of an economic development programme for BiH, the adoption of appropriate laws and measures of economic policy and their implementation. On this basis, taking responsibility for the development and security of capital, new investments and conditions for development, return, employment and social security can be achieved. With regard to the adoption of a strategy for economic development of BiH and social programmes under the authority of BiH institutions, an initiative has been adopted by MPs of the House of Representatives and with the support of both homes, both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College, the BiH Council of Ministers has taken the obligation to present to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the basis for economic development and social policy in the country. We expect Minister Kurtović and the Council of Ministers of BiH to submit a report by the end of the year and prepare the document. 8. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly stressed the importance of the participation of all members to which the Pact applies, to its implementation in order to ensure peace and stability of the region as a whole. Section 3, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, did not adopt an operational plan of activities with facilities, deadlines and holders of 206 executions within 30 days of the end of the summit in order to meet the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe, the implementation of this resolution and the documents adopted at the Pact Summit. Today we received a report from the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with deadlines and tasks related to the implementation of the Stability and Obligations Pact, which we consider extremely important. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly holds meetings, practically, in the permanent below. To this moment, without the proper result, it was, first of all, to the failure of the Work Programme. Finally, we expect this House, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples to adopt the Rules of Procedure, in addition to the law, Rules of Procedure on their work. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly has not yet received information from all competent institutions on the implementation of the conditions for entry into the WE, except for the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the foreign ministry and, now, the delegations to the WE. 4. The resolution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on European Integrations and the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe was published in the Official Messenger of BiH, it is presented in the Interparliamentary Union, the DKPs in the country and the world and we believe it is a document that already has a certain meaning in the political life of our country. I suggest that, if you agree, you accept this information as a basis for further work on these issues.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2958	I thank my fellow MP for what he said about the BiH Council of Ministers, and I heard it well and we understood positively. On behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, I thank you. For our guests, who I welcome, I'd say next. The Stability Pact is a regional approach that is good, however, without funds it will not work. Under one roof, our differences will be less pronounced. We will not be able to correspond with Europe unless we reach a certain economic and social development. I think it's a good investment, an investment that will pay off to Europe in the future. So far, I have to be honest, we haven't seen any of it. I will, of course, thank you in advance if you would work for BiH on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2959	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the exposé submitted by MP Spahić, I would like to refer to the two things mentioned and which, in a sense, are in the power of the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. The first question is BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation, which is something that has been working very actively and, as you know, BiH has been working on since June o.g. Got observer status. Since July, with the help of consultants from the PAR programme, we have been working on making a memorandum on BiH's foreign trade policy and, in this sense, we are trying to install all the proposition and rules required by the World Trade Organisation. A significant part of the work has already been done and I think the first draft of the document, which is likely to cover one 100 to 150 pages, would have been completed already at the very beginning of the year. Of course, it is a document that will, of course, need further to pass the whole procedure, and then to be referred to... for discussion, for repairs, for corrections and for finishing and for suggestions, of course, for respects that will be necessary. We are not optimistic that we will be accepted quickly and in the first round, following the first application, but we expect that this process will be faster than it is in other countries, since we have already used, in a sense, the principles of the World Trade Organisation and the legal solution adopted by the EU, or EU countries, in the adoption of our legislation. The second question, which is quite current and also mentioned in Mr Spahić's exposé and last time he also discussed it, is the issue of a global economic strategy for BiH, a document that, in a sense, would give indications of where BiH should go in its next, let's say, the medium-term period from 2000 to 2003 or 2005. We are intensive in consultations with the World Bank, with the International Monetary Fund and with some other associations with which we should create a global document on the current state of BiH and recommendations that BiH should go to during this period. I'll tell you right now, we have the support of these organizations and this global economic document should be the basis for holding the next donor conference in the spring of next year. The document is being worked on, not only by representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but by a number of entity governments ministers and I expect that we will come to a final agreement on this issue very quickly and that this will be a good basis for engagement, now not more donor funding, but greater affirmation of foreign investors and the creation of new jobs in BiH. Certainly, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will be informed as soon as this document is finalised, as soon as certain discussions are held at the entity's resolution ministries and in the BiH Council of Ministers, and this will be our basis for the next donor conference of 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2960	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Is there anyone else who would like to report for the discussion? No, I don't. I ask our esteemed guests if any of you would like to address the PSBiH House of Representatives, the MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2961	Mr. Chairman, Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, let me first thank you for inviting the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe to attend this session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, and we received this call in a letter from your chairman on 1 November. You know that the first condition for BiH's admission to full membership is that BiH has institutions and joint institutions at the level of the state that are fully functional. As you heard from the head of your parliamentary delegation, at a meeting of our Political Affairs Committee, I filed a report saying that the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH function in a satisfactory manner. 208 As far as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is concerned, I told our Commission on Political Affairs in the report that it is still necessary, on the part of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to see, above all, the existence of a work programme, then to see the infrastructure, and, above all, the infrastructure implies the right of professional staff and, in addition to the work programme, to see the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, our presence at this session of yours is extremely important so that we can directly observe and monitor and evaluate your work and we will do so all the time during our visit, and at the end of our visit, we will tell your chairman what our impressions and our qualifications on the efficiency of your work are. We will also have the opportunity to engage between representatives of the Office of the High Representative and different ministers from your governments. We are doing this because there have been different views on the performance and quality of the work of ministers, so the views differ on the side of the Office of the High Representative, the ministries themselves, and in particular there are differences with me, in my opinion, as rapporteur of the Ve. Therefore, this direct confrontation is very necessary in order to reduce the difference in views. This is about entity ministers, so our visit and our presence to your sessions should bring more successful results and assessments of how successful the work is and how satisfactory the situation is. I heard that you said you needed economic growth, and I fully agree with that, and I would add that you equally need stability, that you need integrity, with these factors that are mentioned, and with which I agree you will become attractive to direct foreign investment and full membership in WE, in fact reflects it, confirms and...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2962	I thank the esteemed Mr. Blacer, the word has the esteemed Mrs. Jaattenn.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2963	Dear Chairman, the esteemed MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that Parliament is the most important institution in the democratic state. The work you do is very important for the future of this country, for the future of the citizens of this country. You've been chosen by people and they expect a lot from your work. I have been working in the Parliament of Finland for 12 years, this is my fourth term, and I have been elected an MP in Parliament for the fourth time. It's hard work sometimes. You often have to sit in meetings for a long time, you have to read a lot of papers, it may not be attractive, but it is our duty and our debt to the citizens of our country who chose us. I think it's one of the most important jobs that Parliament does in Finland and in your country is respect for human rights. We all have very important human rights. It's so much easier to live if we respect human rights. It makes it easier for me, for my neighbors and for every citizen in our country. I hope and wish you all the best in your future work and hope that you will always have in mind and that you will never forget that you have been elected by the citizens of your country and that you should work for their well-being. I hope, I wish you all the best in the future and to say that 209 I hope every morning when you wake up to ask yourself what is the best thing I can do for the citizens of my country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2964	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jattaamaca, our distinguished guests once again, on behalf of the Kolegijum and on behalf of you fellow MPs, thank you for your words and advice. Dear Members of the Parliament, we are moving to the final point of the 11th session. I propose that information on the Stability Pact Resolution for Southeast Europe be accepted, but with the corrections that the rapporteur himself has mentioned, because there is a change in the text in today's work so that with these changes we can accept this information. Who's in? Against. There isn't. 29 is present, one is restrained, 28 is for, there's no need to vote on entities, we see that's okay. We have one answer, these are parliamentary questions and suggestions, but we have one answer to an earlier parliamentary question, so I would like to announce it to the MPs. Miodrag Deretić, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, asked the following question at session 10.9.: how long did the BiH Borders Commission come with a compensation procedure for RS territory up to 49% as set out in the Dayton Agreement? When asked, the Central Commission on the State Borders Question held at a meeting on 8.10.1999, it identified the following response. The BiH Central Commission on the issue of the state border is not in charge of discussing the issue of the inter-entity line of demarcation as well as other issues under the Dayton Agreement concerning the percentage relationship between the entity territory. Chairman of the commission, Ostoja Kremenović. The other answers you asked for did not come, when they arrive we will forward them to you and meet you. IDeretić not gonna ask him if he's happy. The answer would probably be if it wasn't, but we're going to the MPs' questions. Mrs. Rađević answered, and Mrs. Muminagić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2965	Fellow MPs, let me ask you three questions. The first parliamentary question, I would ask and ask the chairman to get me, from the entities they think they can provide information, asking for information on whether there are military training centres for foreign citizens on BiH territory, assuming that some of them even have BiH citizenship. I don't think an explanation for this question is necessary because at the beginning of this session we had reasons, and these are the same reasons why I'm asking that question. The second question is, although Mr Ivo has already said it in part here, but it won't be too bad to repeat, has the process of establishing a commission of 210 representative homes been completed, if it isn't? Here, in an explanation, I can cite, for example. Just that, let's say, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, except for the one when it was established, was no longer in session, so the question is whether it should be, what is the domain of its business, and we have seen, I can say, from the presentation of Minister Kurtović, that, let's say, the Resorient Ministry of the Affairs is doing, but has nothing to do with the Assembly Commission. The third question is, why is the practice of asking only parliamentary questions, and we almost never get answers to them, and the latest situation is that, and when we get an answer, it says we are not competent to answer. I think that the gentlemen, who answered Mr. Deretić's parliamentary question, should at least say who was in charge, so that the question of the MPs should be forwarded there. So this is a serious question, it's not just a smile, why there's this agenda point at all. If that's just to ask and then goodbye, someone remembers, and someone doesn't remember we asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2966	Thank you. I'm asking questions like this, then it's convenient, then we can react quickly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2967	I know we're all tired, but the session's in the third grade, so I've been waiting a long time to ask a question, so I can't give up. The first is the parliamentary issue of the BiH Council of Ministers. In September 1995, a World Women's Conference, together with 189 governments, took part in Beijing IV. The Conference adopted and signed Beijing Declaration and Action Platform. These documents expressed international determination to achieve equality, progress and peace for all women of the world. The Action Platform established strategic objectives and actions in 12 critical areas that would lead to women's positions being improved. As the Beijing Declaration states, the application of the platform for action requires the commitment of governments and the international community. Obliging on a national and international action plan, including commitments made at the Conference, governments and the international community recognise that there is a need to take priority action to raise women's ability and progress. My question is: What has the BiH Council of Ministers done at the implementation of the Platform for Action adopted at the IV World Women's Conference, at the level of BiH as a state and in coordinating activities with entity governments? I must say that this issue is very current, as the UN General Assembly will be held in June 2000 to deal with the issues of implementation of the Beijing Declaration and the Action Platform, and the same will be preceded by a series of preparatory regional meetings. The first one is scheduled for January 2000 in Geneva, organised by the Economic Commission of Europe, with the participation of the Council of Europe and many other international organisations. The preparatory session will discuss four issues from the Beijing Declaration, which are women and economies, institutional mechanisms to improve the position of women, women and violence, women in power and decision-making. I therefore propose that the BiH Council of Ministers, I make this as a proposal, and not as a question, include, 211 since we have not declared ourselves on the Council of Ministers' plan, we have only discussed the report that the Council of Ministers of BiH should put into its work plan to prepare a report on the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and the Action Platform by the end of this year, and that Parliament put the report on its agenda when it is proposed. I suppose fellow MPs support me in this, but, please, fellow MPs, and especially the working presidency, since we don't have any women in it to support this proposal of mine. I'd like to refer two other questions to the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications. First of all, whether all the revenues of the BiH institutions and international obligations are realised in accordance with the Budget Act and other regulations, and in particular whether the provisions of the Law on Administrative Taxes published in the Official Messenger of BiH, No 44 of 2 September under which these fees are the revenue of the BiH budget. Has the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, which oversees financial and material accounting affairs, the law, and the meaningful use of the funds of all the beneficiaries of the budget, determined whether the resources of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH are being made in accordance with the Budget Act under the decisions of the competent authorities and the orders of the responsible persons of the Budget users?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2968	The esteemed presidency, distinguished colleagues, in front of three MPs, or MPs from the coalition, I am coming out with the following request, i.e. the requirement that urgent and energetic, through competent institutions, be placed in the protection of the rights of exiled, displaced and refugees from the RS area in the exercise of their legal rights in the forthcoming privatisation process in this bh. The entity. This is because this process is already being complicated in the beginning. Namely, a decision has been made to open registration checkpoints exclusively in the RS area, with only one exception, here in Sarajevo. The question is, what about that part of BiH citizens who had to leave this country? Why are they denied that right? The decision to register voters is very short, about 45 days, so that our citizens are placed in a subordinate position, and the privatisation process does not meet the basic principles of the ownership transition programme, the mass participation of citizens, the public, speed and equality. Instead of the right to privatise, it is practically only possible to participate in this state conversion, without providing the physical possibility of equal participation of all RS citizens, because this is a matter of vital importance, especially for Bošnjak and Hrvat. In view of this, all that I have said, I ask that more points for registration abroad and the Federation of BiH be opened, to extend the period for registration to 90 days, minimum, for calls for registration to be made throughout the BiH area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2969	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to support Mrs. Suada Muminagić, as I spoke about the Interparliamentary Union report in Berlin. I think it is really important that women's participation issues in parliaments, as well as the participation of women in the executive government in BiH must be paid full attention and Parliament should find a way to implement this programme of Beijing declarations in its powers. 212 Another thing I would like to give, as a concrete proposal, is that Mrs Rađević, Mrs Ana Havel, Mrs Mediha Filipović and Mrs Suada Muminagić are present, on behalf of Parliament, at a dialogue on women's position today in the modern society organised by UNESCO and the Interparliamentary Union, we talked about it at the Commission, but I would ask you to find opportunities with the Council of Ministers of BiH and with the Foreign Ministry for this delegation to present the parliamentary engagement of women in BiH from various political parties and various parts of BiH. It is my suggestion that in this respect we have one responsibility that, in addition to getting and agreeing with the position, I hope, the Foreign Affairs Commission, to invite the Committee on Foreign Policy of Germany to do the same, because this is the main order, because if we were guests there, we should also invite the SR Germany to come with the parliamentary delegation and the President of Parliament to visit us. Finally, I would like to congratulate the SDP on joining the Social Democratic Party, or whatever you want, internationally, I consider it an important event for BiH's political life and I want BiH to have a presence in Europe and the world as well.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-05-0.u2970	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, there are no more applications for questions. Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Parliament, I'm closing the 11th session, and I'll see you tomorrow at 11 o'clock. The seat's finished at 6:30.
