ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the second regular session of the House of the Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Before we move to the agenda, I would like to remind those who did not give photos of the card to do so, which is Pero Marković, Drago Ljubičić, Momir Malić, Đoko Pajić, Momir Tošić and Ristan Ristić. Two photos should give him a credit card to do all the things a representative needs to have with him in order to have less problems. For today's session agenda, I suggest the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 1st session of the House of Peoples, 2nd. Review of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Selection of the working bodies of the House of Peoples, and 4. Agents' questions. If there's any need or suggestion, go ahead. We'll try to make this home work effectively, so I suggest we move right to point one. The adoption of the minutes from the 1st session of the House of the Peoples of PSBiH you have received in addition. Any objections to the record? Can we adopt the record? Who's in? As far as I can tell, the abstentions and the nos, so we're all gonna adopt the record. 2 We are moving to item 2 of the Agenda Considering the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know, for technical reasons, perhaps some others, the documents were to be valid until 1 January, i.e. by 31 December of last year. However, under the circumstances, there is a need for this law to extend its importance by half a year. The BiH Council of Ministers proposed this. The House of Representatives adopted. I'm having a debate on the bill. Here you go. He's short, he's got one change. I think you've all seen him less and you've met him. If there's no debate, I'd suggest we adopt it. I call on us to vote to extend the value of this law to 30.6.1999. Who's in? So the 2nd item of the agenda is aspolvirated. We are moving to the 3rd point of the agenda of the selection of the working bodies of the House of Peoples, as you know, the House of Peoples has seven committees and the Committee of Verification, so I suggest that we fill them today and select the members, and that they choose the chairman themselves, but in the meantime, to carry out consultations with the House of Representatives so that, as logically as possible, we can deploy the chairman, that they do not happen in all homes, in all committees, they are the same chairman, I think, from the same people. I think it's logical that gentlemen, we chair and chair, sit down one day and just suggest a choice of chair. You know the commissions are on parity. So they can have one, three, six or nine members. Before, there were two or six members. I suggest that the commissions now start with six members. If there is a need for us to vote, if not, let's consider continuing to work with six committee members. I would like to invite representatives or club presidents, or one of the representatives from each club, to give a candidate to every commission in the order of their own people. First, I call on the RS commission, i.e. a representative of the Serb people. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I read the proposals for the assembly of committees on behalf of the Members of the Republic of Slovenia, to welcome you all to this 2nd session of the House of Peoples. In front of the Members' Club in RS, I propose the following delegations for the composition of committees: the Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, we propose Malić Momir and Pajić Đoko; for the Commission on International and Foreign Affairs Tošić Momir and Risitić Ristan; the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission Drago Ljubičić and Tošić Momir; the Commission on Finance and Budget issues Pajić Đoko and Malić Momir; the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration and Refugees and Asylum issues Ristić Ristan and Malić Momir; the Commission on Transport and Communications Ljubičić Drago and Tošić Momir; the Commission on Administrative Issues Pajić Đoko and Malić Momir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u36	Thank you. You could still, drago, and the verification committee, although she's an ad hoc. Does it stay the same? He's staying. Thank you. I thank and also use the occasion, I forgot, to congratulate everyone and last holidays and holidays and New Year's and Bajram and all that, I say, is at the end of last and early this year. Thank Bog, at least we won't miss the holiday in this Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call on the representatives of the Bosniak people, the club, to give their candidates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u37	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, So, on behalf of the Club of Bosniaks in the House of People, we propose candidates for members of the working bodies as follows: Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs Čampara Avdo and Ćeman Mirsad; Commission on International and Foreign Affairs Čampara Avdo and Žigić Izet; Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs Herceg Mugdin and Šarčević Ismet; Commission on Finance and Budgets Šarčević Ismet and Ćeman Mirsad; Commission on Human Rights, Immigration of Refugees and Asylums Ćeman Mirsad and Žigić Izet: Commission on Transport and Communications, Šarčević Ismet and Herceg Mugdin; Commission on Administrative Issues Čampara Avdo and Žigić Izet. Finally, I would like to remind the business provision that some of these commissions, according to their own assessment, can also appoint professional people, or experts on those issues, or those commissions where they assess it as necessary. So let it be just a reminder of this business provision, and it certainly needs to be brought into line. It would probably also be a parity composition when it comes to experts in these commissions. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u38	Thank you. I call on the representative of the Croatian Club to propose candidates.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u39	Gentlemen Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, In front of the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we propose at the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs of Mr Vladimir Šoljić and Vinko Zorić; the Commission for International and Foreign Affairs Vinko Zorić and Vladimir Šoljić; the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs Pero Madžar, and another representative will be given when a candidate from the ranks of Croatian MPs is elected in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; the Commission on Budget and Finance of Mr Vladimir Šoljić and Vinko Zorić; the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugee and Asylum Issues, Mr Pero Marković, the fifth member will be given when we elect a fifth member; the Commission on Transport and Communications, Pero Marković and Pero Madžar; the Commission on Administrative Affairs of Mr Vladimir Šolić and Vinko Zorić and the Verification Commission Pero Marković. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u40	Thank you, Mr. Madžar. You've heard the suggestions, if there's any objections, go ahead. If not, I'm not at all embarrassed to waste Mr. Avdo, who has the most experience in the administration. Can we vote in general? In general. Thank you. I invite you to vote. Who is to adopt the composition of committees as proposed? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I don't mind. I therefore believe that we have done a very important job, which means that we have established working bodies that will assist us in considering and quality processing and preparing materials for discussion and voting. We move to agenda number three: Representatives' questions Are there any parliamentary questions? Mr. Ćeman, go ahead. 5
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u41	Dear colleagues, I have this possibility that, as MPs, we are asking parliamentary questions, I see, among other things, and in the function of pointing to certain current issues, of course, with the intention that, as far as our options are, this should be encouraged to resolve the issues, and at the same time in the function of further information, as MPs, about this problem in relation to what, as an MP, I have information. If I don't, I have a few questions, I don't think it's going to be too long, I want to tell them how it's coming. 1. The official currency in the BiH state is, as is known, KM. It has been in circulation for several months, but not in equal scope in all parts of BiH, i.e., as far as I know, is not equally accepted. My question to the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Central Bank of BiH, reads: How has KM, as the official currency of BiH, been accepted in one entity, and how has the other entity and the individual parts of any entity? Specify the amount of money in circulation, and what the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Central Bank of BiH is taking and intending to make sure that KM is truly accepted throughout the BiH area. 2. How many refugees and exiled from the Kosovo area are in BiH, where and how are they located, and what is their status? 3. Has Bosnia and Herzegovina so far achieved revenues from taxis to fly planes across our territory, the territory of BiH, who has these funds and for what purpose? 4. Lately, the general public has been familiar with the difficulties in paying membership roles, i.e., BiH's membership in some international associations where it is a member and therefore reducing its rights even in those organisations. My question is: What is the current situation in this regard? What are the unsettled commitments, what are the consequences, and what are the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Presidency, doing to remove such a situation? Regarding the financing problem, I also point out that, according to my knowledge, a number of BiH embassies in the world also have highlighted problems with funding their work, some do not even have the means to pay for PTT and municipal services, which violates BiH's reputation in the world. So in this context is the question. When and how will this issue be resolved? 5. This is, in fact, more like an initiative, not a question. In fact, interparliamentary co-operation and contacts are regular, important foreign policy activities of each country. I am again initiating this co-operation with the Republic of Croatia, therefore, interparliamentary co-operation on current issues between BiH and Croatia, reminding me of that conclusion from the House of Representatives on the situation of Bošnjak in the Republic of Croatia, because we have initiated the issue of Ploče – Neum, etc., and this is, as is known, resolved by these signed agreements. On this point, I propose that the Commission on Foreign Affairs, which we have today appointed, prepare a proposal for a programme of parliamentary co-operation between BiH and other countries, and deliver it to Parliament for discussion, adoption and realization. 6 next question. By adopting a new organisation scheme of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministries, a significant number of workers, mostly Bošnjak, remained simply unemployed. Most of them, or all of them, have not received any act, a solution and the like, which determines such status, better said, they are not guaranteed any status, and the material receipts were secured to them at the conclusion of 31.12 last year. Do not delay the need for rationalisation in the organisation of the state administration, although I think that this concept of the Council of Ministers and ministries, especially some, far from necessary, is absolutely unacceptable for workers who have been carrying out their duties for years, and, together with others, safeguarding the continuity of these bodies, treats them this way. For the purpose of affirmation and defense of the principles of legality in the work of all bodies, I ask the Ministerial Council. What will they do to resolve the status of these workers in accordance with the applicable regulations, even if a number of them have to stop working? I mean the adoption and delivery of an appropriate solution, remuneration for a certain period of time, etc. Is this a violation of human rights? Especially when we consider some cases of return to work in Sarajevo, etc., those who left their jobs and the city in 1992 and later years, but were returned to work, i.e. through various human rights institutions, they are protected by these rights. I don't know if there's any need here to remind you of some experience in solving the multiethnic administration in Brcko, where quite some other criteria have been applied. And the next question. Application of Article 6 The BiH Citizenship Act (BiH Official Messenger, No. 4/97) regarding the citizenship of children born outside BiH, and before the entry into force of the BiH Constitution caused certain difficulties and different interpretations. Namely, if both BiH citizens are not enrolled in a BiH citizen's book, they are now treated as foreign citizens, both in terms of some costs of schooling and in general. Does the Council of Ministers intend to propose an amendment to the Law, i.e. in particular, Article 6, although this law has been adopted, or declared by the OHR, in order to resolve this issue or to consider that it is possible otherwise by some mandatory interpretation or similar. In any case, something has to be done, because in practice people have a lot of problems about this issue. I think in a particular case, it's a single solution that's simple, perhaps legislative recklessness, not a targeted solution. Finally, I repeat the initiative, including the requirement for all MPs to be provided with the official newspaper of both entities, so that we can monitor legislative activity in both entities. Of course, when it comes to the House of Peoples, especially us in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, because we are so elected to receive the Official Journal, as well as colleagues from the RS, are sure to receive the Official Journal of our entity, but I think we should all receive these official newspapers, of course, and MPs of the second Parliament, in order, therefore, to have insight into the normative, or legislative activity. I don't think this is a great expense to the Assembly, and it certainly would help to work for MPs, of course, those who, as I said, are already not already receiving the official newspaper of one and another entity on other grounds. Those are my questions, I apologize for their little number, but I think these are all important questions that we need to pay attention to, and, of course, I expect to get answers as soon as possible. Thank you very much. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Now I'd like to give a little word to myself. Mr. Ćeman's questions have just been raised, and this is about the following. As you know, we are building a new BiH, or BiH with new foundations. It's all new, including the working community and the people who worked here. This does not mean that the people we take, and the new working communities, the new services of our parliament, one and the other home, and perhaps wider, cannot be the same people, but they must be re-received and that community must be re-organised. I therefore call upon, immediately after this session that will last, as you see very briefly, your colleagues and co-chairs and to appoint another member who, according to you, is the most certified, most qualified, to hold pre-negotiations on how to set up a new working community. The natural thing is that we will have to hold talks with the House of Representatives, and we here at the Federation of BiH, and you, too, are probably in the RS, with the entity assemblies in order to agree on maintenance times and create rational working communities that can serve all parliaments in this complex state. For this I don't think we need a vote or consent, because that's one need, therefore, I don't think there's a problem. Any more parliamentary questions? Here you go. Mr. Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u43	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will welcome you all, I would like to ask a brief question to the BiH Council of Ministers and that would say so. Who and how does he control BiH's maritime border? At the same time, I would take the opportunity to suggest that this House requires the federal assembly, both homes, and the RS Assembly, to invite the delegates of this House to the session so that we can monitor the work of these congregations with official calls to attend and to make it our conclusion and request to these two parliaments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u44	Any more questions? Here you go. Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u45	Mr. President, fellow MPs and MPs, 8 Since I am indeed speaking for this speaker of the high home of the BiH state for the first time, I will introduce myself, I am Herceg Mugdin, an SDP MP at the Bosniak People's Club of this high house. I would like to move three things very briefly in the form of an initiative, to prepare for the MPs of this house and MPs of the House of Representatives, if they do not have, by the Professional Services “The Guide through the BiH Authority”. I think that would be an instruction for us in further work. The following would be more of a question, since it's been less than a month since the Madrid Conference, the adoption of the Madrid Declaration, and, here, we got here in these envelopes and recapitulation, the calendar of commitments in 1990 (?), which stems from the conclusions of the Madrid conference, I am really asking one question. Why is he inaccessibly late for the establishment of the Council of Ministers? And the third thing would be a question in the form of the proposal, namely, my thinking that it would be directed from the MPs of this House and MPs of the Parliamentary House of BiH to approach, in order to ensure full transparency of public funds, loans and humanitarian resources, the establishment of a joint working body of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly made up of MPs and this and the House of Representatives who would work on this project to ensure the necessary transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-11-0.u46	Thank you. Any more questions? Looks like this is the first session for the Bosniak side issues, so we'll schedule the following congregations, the natural thing, a little joke. Anyone can ask. Here, if there are more questions, and if there are no questions, I would conclude this agenda point, and also the 1st session with a desire to continue our work effectively. Thank you. The sitting's done at 1:00. End
