ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u188	štovati and gentlemen, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the international community and information funds, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the 5th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I find that all MPs from the House of the Peoples are present. I would like to inform you that the commissions have done their part of the job, that we have followed the session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina and after all of this we have proposed the agenda that you have received, together with one supplement, to insert behind point 12 a point that means and which provides for an extension of the importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents, as proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. All the others would remain the same, and we'd make decisions during the session whether we'd take some points off, prolong, or something else to conclude. Do you agree with my proposal or any other suggestions? There are no other suggestions, we accept this agenda and we start working. You got a fourth-session record, any objections? She was short and efficient and I don't think there's any reason to comment, if she doesn't, did we adopt the record? Who's in? Unanimity. We move to point 2 of the proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina The debate was held on this point at a session of the House of Representatives. It has been concluded that it is delayed, I am opening the debate, if there are no different views, I will also suggest that a conclusion be made to delay decision-making until the next session. I'm opening a debate. If there is no debate, I suggest that this point, as the House of Representatives has concluded, is also delayed for the next session. As you know, this home, in principle, sits after the House of Representatives and makes decisions after them. 2 The next item of the agenda of the proposed law on the held anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina We had this under consideration and I believe that an anthem and symbols should be brought, indeed, responsibly, carefully and unanimously, so I am opening the debate, i.e., asking you, did, in relation to last session, when this point was discussed, something changed in the views of one and the other and the third club. The Bosniak side, Avdo, has anything changed? Nothing. Mr. Tošić, has anything changed? Mr. Zorić? Okay. We're just kidding a little bit, no one's gonna take this seriously, this is because the situation around these points is, indeed, serious and I would suggest that these laws, i.e. The proposal for a state anthem, a review of the Law on Flag and coat of arms, should be postponed after a session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's in? The next item is the discussion and adoption of the Telecommunications Act I open the debate. You have the law with you. Here you go, Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u189	Mr. President, fellow representatives, esteemed guests, I would like very briefly, in front of the Commission on Transport and Telecommunications, to inform the House that the Commission was sitting right before today's session, that we had the Information on the position of the House of Representatives yesterday, from yesterday's session, and that the Commission is proposing to this House to adopt the Law in the proposed text, with the fact that we agreed here to say that we had discussed this text twice at the Commission's meeting, that we had sent a written invitation twice to the representative of the competent ministry, and that both times none of those invited had attended the meeting of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u190	Thank you, Mr. Herce, is there anyone else to discuss? I followed the debate yesterday, you didn't, if there was a need for Mr. Tomić and us, as well as that home yesterday, to explain, but I think after Mr. Tomić's explanation yesterday, the law was adopted, if he needed to explain, and if he didn't, we should approach the debate. Who's for the adoption of the Telecommunications Act? 3 As far as I can see, no one is abstentioned or against, therefore, the Telecommunications Act is unanimously adopted. The next item of the agenda is the adoption of the Framework Law on the Privatisation of Business and Banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina The previous meeting of the House of Representatives passed this law and we last considered, that is, the previous time, and postponed, at the request of the Serbian party, so I ask the representative of the Club of Serbian Representatives and MPs to plead, either vice president or president of the Club, as you will. M.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u191	Since yesterday at the House of Representatives this law was not at the debate, it was adopted in the previous session, we remain in the position to wait for the official position of our government, because in one part we have not yet agreed on things under the Dayton Agreement, I think we are now in a situation that, after the Government's position, we can discuss this at the next session. So I would ask that, at this moment, we postpone the Privatisation Act today for the next session we will have and then we will also have an official position and probably pass this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u192	Are there any more candidates to discuss? If not, I suggest that this proposal be made by a gentleman, and, behold, Avdo, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u193	You know that this law, since it was not adopted by the House of Nations in the previous assembly and adopted by the House of Representatives, was adopted by the High Representative and passed by this law, as well as by the Law on coat of arms and flag and anthem. So it will be up to us in the future, and I accept this proposal, to finally define ourselves at the next session on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u194	Thank you. The proposal is also strengthened, I would like a statement on Mr Tošić's proposal to postpone this point for the next session. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? There is no one, so unanimously this point has been transferred to the next session. We now have five draft laws, I would say, on the same principle, i.e. the bill proposals given by the MPs. Let's go in order. - Proposal for a law on the terms and conditions of conduct of state and judicial authorities in punishing war criminals. This is the SDP proposal, that is, Mr. 4 Lagumdžija. That proposal, according to some information, I would like to ask that it be made public here, the last meeting of the House of Representatives has been adopted, and this house has not adopted it. It is up to us to define ourselves in general whether the laws given by the representatives will be given to the BiH Council of Ministers, by procedure, if it does not come out in 60 days, we put it on the agenda, but I would suggest that they plead whether the statement is positive, negative or unresolved. I personally am not for this House to consider laws, especially those that do not comply with the plan and programme of work of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the House of Peoples, that (?) We under this procedure, which the Rules of Procedure allow, and we accept. If you're up to it, I will always accept most of it, I personally suggest that the laws, meaning, the bill I read, then -- the draft law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, international crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, - the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and - the proposal for a law on affirmation and safeguarding the protection of sovereignty and territorial integrity, political independence and international sovereignty of BiH in the field of education, postponement until the Council of Ministers of BiH declares. I would ask the BiH Council of Ministers to simply inform us why they are not putting this on the agenda? And that's a statement for us. I personally say and suggest that we do not have a debate before we get any opinion from the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on all this. Avdo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u195	I think the chairman has reached a good conclusion. We, the law that adopted the House of Representatives in the last term, have not debated in the House of Peoples at all in the past nor in this congregation. However, the laws proposed by authorised proposings, which are not proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think it would be right to declare by any law to the Council of Ministers of BiH, it does not have to be positively declared on the law, nor even have to be heard negatively about the law, but it must inform us that it has been discussed and that it has had a certain position, as it does not matter, because both homes do not have to adopt the law as the Council of Ministers of BiH has declared. That is why I personally believe that the Council of Ministers should put these laws on the agenda, because all these laws are very important, I do not see any law that is not important and that it could not be debated and even that we could not adopt it, perhaps with any, certain amendments and additions. That is why I accept the proposal of the People's Presidency to put this on the agenda by the next session of the BiH Council of Ministers, these five laws, and to declare to us that they, that is another matter, whether they reach agreement on them or not, it is important and relevant to us, but it is not relevant for us to decide on it, we can decide, but it would be desirable to have the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers and I think the chairman is right. 5
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u196	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Is there anyone else to discuss? So, I agree, that is, I repeat the proposal that the items of the agenda on the 9th, 10th, 11, 12th and 13th be postponed until the BiH Council of Ministers declares after them. Did I forget, and it seems to me that I am, considering and adopting the Law on Citizenship of BiH, which I was going to undertake under the same conclusion as the House of Representatives, i.e., as well as point 2 that it be postponed until the next session of this House. So the proposal for a law on administrative fees and the Proposal for a Law on Citizenship is delayed for the same reasons as at the House of Representatives, and these points as I have already said. Who's up for this proposal? Does anyone mind? Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. The point 13 we got would be to extend the importance of travel documents to 30.9.1999 We've already considered this on committees, I don't think there's any reason... that for practical reasons it's the only solution we can have right now can only be a date in question. If the House of Representatives adopted, dated 30.9., it's perfectly logical that we do the same. I'm opening a debate. If there is no debate, who is in order to extend the importance of travel documents, issues, methods of publication, to 30.9.? Does anyone mind? Restraint? There isn't. So, the bill was passed. The next item of the agenda is the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, on its status, conditions and method of use To inform you. This proposal was made together. Due to some of the problems that have arisen in the meantime, there were some differences at the House of Representatives yesterday. The request is for Serbian parties to split decisions into several parts, that the first part be only a transfer of ownership, and that other decisions be made, who will be the user, etc., in another way. Therefore, this item of the agenda has been postponed for the next session. I'm opening a debate at this home. ________________ Not included. 6 Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr Tomić, chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u198	N. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to take the opportunity to get to know you that the Council of Ministers of BiH, after a comprehensive debate, has proposed to the BiH Parliament these two decisions concerning the Marin Court building, the building of the joint institutions and the building that the Central Bank of BiH should now use, which we should give to the Central Bank of BiH, as the founder of this Central Bank of BiH, according to the BiH Central Bank Act. Yesterday at the debate that was held there was a dilemma whether one decision to regulate these two or three things in it or to separate it into several decisions. The Council of Ministers of BiH, we had consultations during yesterday's session, stands at the stand, because it is a unique position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that this decision is indeed a prerequisite for the continued work of the joint institutions, their organisation, the adaptation of this building and any further, the quality of the movement on the establishment of the joint institutions, and in this context, we appeal that the House of Peoples will try to discuss and adopt this decision in order to then agree in the House of Representatives, because I think the House of Representatives will also accept such a decision at its next session, because it is nothing essential but the organisation of this space for the needs of the joint institutions and that it is the place to be managed by the institutions which these joint institutions will establish. We now have the condition that we do not know who set these tables in this way to sit, who controls the entry, who examines, etc., the aim of this decision is to create assumptions that the Council of Ministers of BiH, the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliament operate in their space and by the rules that will be common... I, in this context, appeal, if possible, to declare today to the House of Peoples, because the Council of Ministers of BiH is indeed, on several occasions, Minister Ašanin is a proposing that decision, as a resolute ministry, and as a man who is a graduate lawyer, with great experience in this area, and we finally adopted it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Tomić. Who else is answering for a hearing? Mr. Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u200	After this presentation by the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tomić, I, in front of the Bošnjak delegation, propose that we adopt this decision today, which means that it has not come into force, as Mr Tomić said, until it adopts the House of Representatives, that is, if it is adopted, and one and another decision, in other texts, is then agreed upon. Therefore, I would agree with Mr. Tomić, if the rest of you agree, to adopt this decision today, especially as he is right, so that we can fully adapt this building and so that 7 can determine the order that will be in this building, from the entrance and beyond, as well as in the building where the Central Bank of BiH was, the sooner it was the National Bank. That's why, as far as I'm concerned, the Bošnjak delegations, I suggest we adopt this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u201	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Is there more? Mr. Tošić. Mr. Tošić, by the time you get to the pay phone, I would suggest something that might help solve the problem. In exceptional circumstances, this house can make a decision before the House of Representatives, so I will suggest that these two decisions be made and that one, I say, be determined immediately if the decision of the House of Representatives is different. So she won't come into effect, she's just saving us the needless waiting for a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u202	M. The position of our Serbian MPs' club from the Council of Nations is much more radical than what our colleagues suggested yesterday. Therefore, there is no speech today about how we would vote for these decisions, because we had the OHR, with our famous 1:1, which I still believe is in place, the maintenance -- two in the federal section, one in RS, that the issue of both these buildings and the joint institutions of BiH will be dealt with in quite another way. So we will probably have problems and agree with the clubs in the House of Representatives of this Decision and today it would be better to make it, because we will refuse to, therefore, delay it to try to agree with both us and our representatives at the Council of Ministers, and normally to convince us that this is the best solution, because it seems to me that we have had a much better starting base than we have now. For these reasons, the position of the Club of Serbian MPs in the Council of Peoples is to take this off today, so let's leave it for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u203	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. I will try to make this home work exactly as Mr. Tošić suggested, so far it has worked, that anything that is possible to bring unanimously, we do so simply, exceptionally, that we eventually apply another way of working. Therefore, I am personally giving up my proposal and I am grasping Mr Tošić's proposal. Are there any more candidates to discuss? I agree that we are in favour of delaying points 14 and 15 of the decision, i.e., the House of Representatives' conclusion until the next session, but that it is only until the next session. Who's in? As far as I can see, unanimously, these two points are being postponed for the next session. 8 The next item is the draft decision on the organisation of the Secretariat, i.e. the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, you have the decision with you, that is, the draft, therefore, it would be very good to have a debate today, that then further activity, further work be passed on to the competent committees, that until the next session, or to one to which we agree, deliver a final proposal, i.e., to say, a law in the form of adoption. I'm opening a debate. Avdo, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u204	We were on the Administrative Commission and we discussed this decision of the House of People and then we agreed to hold a joint commission of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, in order to agree in a certain way on the formation, now says the Secretariat, I would like an old name, the Professional Service of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is clear to all of us, if we do not have a good professional service of the BiH Parliament, that, no matter how many MPs or delegates in the House of Peoples try, it cannot be a quality work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since this is the draft of the law, that there have been certain suggestions and remarks, both on the Commission of the People's House - the Administrative Commission of the People's House and on the Commission of Representatives' House, and yesterday there have been certain, I have listened to, remarks and suggestions at the House of Representatives' House, and they have reached one conclusion and I will try to, not now enter the House of Representatives' House itself, to suggest that we make the same, almost similar conclusion, the same conclusion, to empower the Administrative Commission of the People's House, that, together with the Administrative Commission of the Representatives' House and the Interim Secretariat, which was elected by both Commissions, and the Commission of the House of Peoples and Commissions of the House of Representatives, that, on the basis of the suggestions and remarks they have so far heard, we are sitting in the administrative committees with the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, and that, if possible, we can take the matter of the matter of choice of choice of choice, which is necessary, and of choice, which is possible, which is necessary, which will be taken by way. I also propose that we task the Administrative Commission of the People's House and that this be the conclusion, that the Administrative Commission of the People's House can make, that it will also be the authority of the future in the job description, that it can make decisions on the status of MPs and other workers in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH until the final adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. the Rules of Procedure on the work of the People's House and the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would suggest that we adopt such conclusions, and, of course, if all MPs who have observations now, and if they have them on this proposal, they would be desirable, and if not, if we are really engaged, that, as soon as possible, we adopt an act on the sekretarijat, i.e., the Professional Service of the BiH Parliament, to help us carry out our tasks as best as possible, which both under the Constitution and by the laws, stand before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u205	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u206	I welcome my fellow MPs. On behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club, I have a comment on this draft, because the Croatian Representatives' Club thinks there should be two secretariats, one secretariat of the House of Representatives and the secretariat of the House of Peoples. Without the secretary general or the general, I don't know what the secretary general means. According to this scheme I received, out of 43 employees, the secretary general has 27 employees, the secretary of the House of Peoples or the secretary of the House of Peoples has two employees, himself and one person in charge of preparing meetings and representatives. All the other secretaries or secretaries are common to both homes, and the Secretary-General, in double terms, has a special one. I suggest, on behalf of the Club, that the motionary has this in mind when making proposals for these joint services, that the House of Peoples works independently, because I personally, and I suggest to my colleagues from the Club, I no longer come to any committees that are common. I have not been elected to any joint committee on constitutional and legal issues, on administrative matters, etc., I have been elected to these committees in the House of Peoples and I will act accordingly. Whenever I get a joint call I won't even respond to it, the position of the Croatian Representatives Club is, I repeat, that we have our secretariat in the House of Peoples, that it will be set up according to this House of Representatives, I wouldn't discuss it much, because we need to have a secretariat that will prepare, distribute and help us, representatives in this House, how to work. Notices to make it easier for us to do something, then I ask myself at the previous point, and even this one, is it hard for us now? I haven't heard anyone say it's hard for us here, it's hard for me to blame my neck from downstairs and watch who's talking on this pay phone. Whoever did this, and he's certainly getting paid from that budget that we adopted at the last session, he set us up. Why would that someone, and like us, get rid of that if we adopted some decisions and some laws, we would solve both the building and this hall, etc., here the big money is spent, and we don't have any working conditions, in fact, we have to constantly blame ourselves and look at this speaker to see who's talking. In short, without the secretary-general, the separate secretariats of two homes, with all the professional services, to be able to serve commissions, because the secretaries will constantly tell us that they are busy, because they have to do something there right now for the House of Representatives committee, or vice versa. And that's what we'd have a lot less employees, because these 27 if we employed another home, because this would be enough for one home, so we'd definitely cut by one 15 to 17 employees, and that would make our budget easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u207	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Is there anyone else to discuss? 10 Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u208	I really want to bring out my personal thinking, as a delegate, that is, an SDP MP for this document. First of all, I absolutely support this initiative in order to make a decision on the organisation of the secretariats for one simple reason that the efficiency of the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly depends, above all, on a well-teamed secretariat that will serve these two homes in this BiH Parliamentary Assembly. However, we are aware that we have very many challenges in this coming time, which are being put before this Parliamentary Assembly, beginning with the Madrid Declaration, the Annex to the operational tasks and the terms, the calendar of the 1999 commitment, the Platforms with the plan for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe's membership, and then the list of emergency measures, the Annex platform, the list of conditions for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, than the law on the vault, the law on audit, our internal affairs that we need to regulate, I am in favour of proposing, from establishing a proposal for the text of this decision, to make the decision more effective and more operational than the one we have here. I simply cannot accept on page 4 the finding that we need to until the next session for an even more likely month, so it will come on vacation, so it will take us twice 30 days to adopt a decision, so we will appoint a secretariat, etc., the Secretary-General and the Home Secretary-General, and in that sense I believe that at the moment of proposing, defining and giving proposals for adoption to the House of Representatives and to the House of People, the Administrative Commission shall convene and propose possible solutions in terms of proposing the Secretary-General, if it is intended for the Secretary-General in the further process and two secretaries and to leave a shorter deadline for the preparation of the internal organisation of the Skertariats, in the interest of the operationalisation of this document, and ultimately, to implement the decision itself. Secondly, normally, the consultation will find out whether it is a realistic proposal of the number of perpetrators or there will be some reduction, but in any case it should make an effort to get a team secretariat in one move, not in two half-times, because I cannot accept the reasons that the financial resources are the reason for the inability to operate on this decision and cannot accept the explanation that the space is the reason for the inability to operate on this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Herce. Who else is answering for a hearing? Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u210	Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that at the end of today's session, because I see that we are approaching the end of today's agenda, I say just a few words, personal observations, and I don't think you'll be angry, I don't want to go back to what we've already solved back. 11 If we look at and observe today’s agenda, we can see that we have at these points for today’s session several laws and agenda points that we can in a certain way divide and classify depending on how they came on the agenda. We have one part of the law, and they keep repeating these points and laws, adopted by Mr. Vestendorp and, behold, these sessions don't pass, and they're in function and apply. Secondly, we have a part of the law and agenda that is proposed in terms of the law, which came from the MPs, and I would just like to mention something here. I think we need to find a solution very quickly within these joint bodies of BiH and form one, accept one, find one principle and procedures for these laws or laws that are now proposed, or that will eventually come. Here I think that this procedure and what we have put off today, part of these laws, and where we have returned to the Council of Ministers, I would really ask that we be faster and more efficient in that procedure. Yes, and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers find opportunities, here, today and there has been an observation on one of these committees for traffic and communication, we have already twice sent a call to the Council of Ministers that one of the competent and responsible from the Council of Ministers attends the meeting of these committees, because we really want their position and opinion, and Mr Čampara said, we are not suggesting or asking it to be an opinion that may have a commission, it doesn't matter what the opinion or position of the Council of Ministers will be, but we can continue to conduct the debate, it can serve us and should serve us as one orientation or help for our further work. Let me just say a few words about this point we're discussing right now. It is certainly clear to all of us, and I think there is no dispute here, that it is very important, significant and necessary for the work of each other in Parliament, to define in the end this Secretariat in full, or, to define and appoint this professional service that should be helpful to all. These little differences in opinion and this proposal, i.e., the draft that we have, here, I join Mr Mugdim and Mr Čampara's proposal to really find opportunities for these committees to meet very quickly, so, here, you see these previous points regarding the building and the work of the joint bodies, to define that space, too, is, within this point which we are now talking about certainly one of the priority issues where we need to find a common solution and to agree these views and these opinions in order to go further to creation, however, better working conditions and all common bodies, and here I certainly mean the work of the Representative Council and the Council of People. I join these proposals and support these proposals on my personal behalf and on behalf of the MPs from the RS to speed up, however, this process. I appreciate what Mr. Mugdim said, it's time and time for vacations, etc. But I personally think that we can do a lot more of this by that time, and we should do it. Not to be too long, so I would suggest that these committees meet very quickly, and it is not disputed, after the meeting of these committees, and if we find that common solution, to bring together these congregations, that this is a minor problem than what is before us, that we have not yet agreed on certain views and opinions. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u211	Thank you, Mr. Ljubičić. Who's coming forward for the debate? I'd like to try to recapture a little bit. If it hadn't been for this proposal, whether he's good or bad, we wouldn't have been able to conduct the debate. All discussions have contributed, I think, in some ways, to the fact that some other discussions would be excessive, in general, so I think we should finally determine the status of the buildings and find a way to maintain and serve the institutions in them. I mean everything from garages and entrances to buffets, these technical services and others, to what is necessary for the normal work of both homes. Therefore, I believe that we should not waste more time, but rather be in charge of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent committees, and then bring us here to regulate and to assign ours in this domain. There's no reason we shouldn't finish this job before vacations. It's just that we're wasting time, that's all. From session to session, to one conclusion, and then we're waiting for another session afterwards. I think the committees in charge should really take this job seriously and bring it to an end in the next month. Can we draw about one such conclusion at this session? Who's in? Thank you very much. I've got, uh, a few notices before the parliamentary hearings. Namely, as you have heard earlier, in the context of BiH's accession procedure to the Council of Europe, at the invitation of both homes of the BiH Assembly, Mr Harold Asimson and the President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mr Danijel Tačis, General Secretary of the Council of Europe, will be staying in BiH on 19th and 20th of this year, which means Saturday and Sunday. The High Council of Europe delegation has voiced a desire for both Parliament's homes to be held at a session to address them at the session. I know it means a lot to all of us this weekend, although we've mostly worked so that the weekend in the past period has never been, but those who are currently at our disposition to help us, they're using part of their free time and they usually come here on Saturdays and Sundays. According to that, they would demand that we have a session of both homes in 19th, which means Saturday at 3:00. I would ask, however, that we accept this joint proposal and listen to the High Representatives of the Council of Europe on their visit to BiH. This was information, I don't see any need to discuss it. So, this choice has been narrowed down... I'm willing to accept their proposal. Is that what we're for? So, we schedule a joint session on the 19th at 15 o'clock. Another notice. As you know, there has been a dead end regarding our participation in various institutions of the international community, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and others. Now this little thing is being activated, our parliamentary delegation will go to Paris at the end of this month to visit the Parliament of France. We have agreed on how the delegation will take place and we have already done so. 13 There is one call, too, from Switzerland, one Commission on the Security of Europe, which requires us to appoint three representatives, three representatives, from each nation by one, so I suggest we do that too, it will also be 29, which means at the end of this month. 3/5 I don't see any other way than to have representatives of the three nations appoint one representative at a time. The Croatian side has no dilemma, we will do it immediately. I ask the representatives of the Serbian and Bosniak sides to do the same to give Mr Genjac and me the opportunity to form this delegation and send it to Zurich. I would suggest that we accept in principle that Genjac and I, in coordination with the others, appoint one representative to go to Switzerland. Our obligation was to respond to the BiH Constitutional Court. Mr. Čampara will formulate it better because it's his area.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u212	Mr. Banjac, co-chairing the House of Representatives, has applied to the BiH Constitutional Court for an assessment of the constitutionality of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law and the election of the BiH Council of Ministers. The House of Peoples participates in the adoption of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and does not participate in the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH because it is the responsibility of the House of Representatives under the Constitution. Therefore, we can propose to the Constitutional Commission - the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Issues to the People's House to be visible under the Council of Ministers Act and to deliver its opinion to the Constitutional Court of BiH, together with the opinions of the Constitutional Commission, and the Constitutional Court of BiH will make a final decision on all this. I think it is our duty, as the House of Peoples, to do so, and that the Constitutional Commission, which will make up the report, which will send the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, report to the House of Peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u213	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Is there anyone else to discuss this point - on this information? Mr. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u214	Given that I am the President of this Commission on Constitutional Affairs, I would ask that the House be precisely declared whether it is transferring powers to the Commission or whether the Commission should build one position, to build a proposal for opinions that the House would adopt. Since it has remained undefined here - I, as far as I know that the deadlines in that sense have already been breached, I pray that the House declares itself in that sense. Whether it will empower the Commission to fully discuss and verify in full, on behalf of the House, a response to the Constitutional Court of BiH. You can have one and the other.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u215	14 Thank you, Mr. Malić. Is there more to be discussed? I suggest we always bring one-time powers, not to do it in general, because later on, we'll lose all our strings. So, as we transferred that decision to the committee earlier, so I suggest we transfer this decision to the Committee for Constitutional and Legal Affairs. So, in this case, let's give her the authority. Who's in? - Unanimity. It's going to be a little bit of a concern, because we've made all the decisions unanimously, although we haven't made many, but mostly, it seems to me that what we could have done today. I repeat, we wanted to conduct a debate on the points that the House of Representatives, for whatever reason, had taken off the agenda. There is one more item on the agenda of the Representative's question: Are there any parliamentary questions left? One more thing I noticed - are there any answers to the former questions? I would ask, before Mr. Pajić, that you, gentlemen of the Secretariat, prepare our answers or inform us that the competent authority has not answered our questions. We should not allow the question asked by the representative to be belittled. I'll have a drink, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u216	Gentlemen of the presidency, fellow delegates, I would have one question -- if it could, according to the joint institutions, go back to the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Gentlemen, we both know and see that more than two months of the brutal aggression of the NATO Pact on a sovereign, independent state, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, which we, in any case, Serbian delegates, absolutely condemn and do not support. We are also witnessing that Bosnia and Herzegovina's airspace has been used intensively for aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia since the beginning of this aggression. Well, according to the BiH presidency, one question only, if they can give me an answer -- is it, and who gave consent to the use of the BiH air space for aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and, if no one did, did they try to prevent it from happening on their own? That's one question. The second question is initiative. At the previous session of this house, I gave one initiative, and now I would again give, according to that initiative, the proposal, also, according to the BiH presidency and the highest joint institutions. I also came to the conclusion back then, and we all know that there are a lot of convicted persons on BiH territory for war crimes that have not been proven on both sides. Again, the national courts, both on the one hand and on the other, have convicted some of the people of war crimes for which there is no evidence, these people, in my opinion, are innocently convicted of something they didn't do. You know, at least in 15 Republika Srpska, perhaps at one of the next sessions of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amnesty and Compassionation will be passed. It seems to me that these persons will probably be covered in that section, so I would suggest that the most institutions -- the joint institutions, by the BiH Presidency, and, moreover, make it possible, until such laws are passed, that those persons who have been convicted are in detention or in prisons on the opposite side, in the opposite entities, at least return to prisons to support the penalties in the entities in which they lived until the trial, because at least in a certain part we would facilitate their suffering and suffering, and certainly have them. I support this by the fact that part of these people, which the Republika Srpska judiciary has condemned, has therefore been returned to support the fines in the Federation of BiH. You remember the examples of those people from Srebrenica who have been convicted and who have been returned to support the fines in the Federation of BiH. So one part of the people is in a privileged position, the other part of the people is in a worse position, so that at least everyone can be given the same status. It's an initiative. But I think that should make it possible for everyone, and not for one, yes, and one, not for one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u217	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. Any more questions? Mr. Mađar.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u218	The Honored Presidency, the envoys of the House of Peoples, is not a parliamentary question, but what the gentleman said earlier, which is that the Secretariat of Parliament, the House of People and the House of Representatives, or someone else who did this job, may, however, arrange this hall in one more appropriate way for such sessions. I think it's very difficult to monitor the work itself, especially the exposure behind this pay phone and, of course, the presidents who run this home of the people -- to arrange it differently until the next session. It is also a request, i.e. a request from the officials, i.e. a representative of the House of Peoples of the Croatian Order.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-06-09-0.u219	Any other objections and questions? If there isn't, thank you. I'm concluding this session session is closed at 12:30.
