ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u312	I welcome you all, MPs, delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, representatives of the international community and representatives of the media present at today's session and I am opening the 10th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For the 10th session of the House of Nations, I suggest the following 1. Proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH; 2. Draft of the BiH election law, proposing delegates in the Drago Ljubičić House; 3. Draft BiH Election Law, Proposer of the SDP MEPs Club and 4. Legislative questions. I find that for today's session we have a quorum and 5 in the order of Bošnjak, 3 in the order of Hrvat and 3 in the order of Srbin. We move to the first item of the agenda, first to declare the agenda. Are we in agreement with the agenda? Who's in? Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. Thank you, lyapa. I find that we unanimously adopted the proposed agenda. Ad.1. The proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH was discussed by the House of Representatives and concluded that MPs could refer their proposals and amendments to this law to the BiH Council of Ministers for a statement in the coming period. I suggest we hold a debate on this law and make a similar conclusion, by limiting the time period during which these amendments would be delivered. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u314	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, 2 Since the situation around this law is as it is, it means that amendments can be made and that this conclusion would probably go to propose as at the House of Representatives, I intend to make two amendments to Articles 6 and 7. In Article 6. "the refugee from BiH ceases to be a refugee from BiH," according to point (a) and (b), I think it would be convenient to include the amendment, i.e., point (c) and so I will formulate the amendment in this direction to stop refugee status if the refugee currently sold or alienated her property, and in particular the property she served for accommodation and housing. The same amendment would be under point e), in Article 7. I think it would be directed because of the situation we are in and because of the attitudes and the international community, as well as all the debates that have been conducted between the two entities about accommodation and refugee status, and it is always potential that whoever alienated his property in one entity has moved to another, that he should stop the refugee status in that direction, because he is no longer without property and is no longer refugees. This has been agreed several times with the refugees and displaced persons of both entities, and I think that agreement has been reached there, at least in the field implementation has reached agreement that this is already being done on the ground, where certain municipalities in the alienation of property are obliged to submit such lists to the address of the Ministry of Refugees and displaced persons of another entity and to delete such a list of refugees and displaced persons. In that direction, I'm going to make these two amendments, so since it's concluded in the House of Representatives that they're going to plead... they're likely to find places and this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u315	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u316	I would take advantage of the opportunity, since the House of Representatives has not made a decision on the adoption of this law, to give a suggestion for technical repair and two amendments, I will give them in writing after this session. Namely, Chapter III, which regulates the rights of refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, should stand at point 1, as it stands, not a point, after point 2, not a point 3 that regulates the right to return of property, not a point 4, but a point 3 that regulates the right to return of housing rights, is a technical intervention, at least in this document that I have so. Secondly, I would like to express my personal support for the adoption of this law because I am deeply aware of the need to establish a roof registration at the level of the BiH state that will regulate the issue of refugees and displaced persons in BiH. I would like to give the amendment to Article 10(2), that instead of the last sentence, that is Article 10, which reads, I quote "the programme of return of refugees from BiH and displaced persons from the previous position of the Council of Ministers". I propose that this text be deleted and replaced by "the programme of return of refugees from BiH and displaced persons from the previous position adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers". The following intervention would be on Article 13, instead of that date, April 1, 1992. the year, which is taken as the date for the return of property, is due to stand at 30.4.1991. 3 Namely, Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, Article 1, point 1, in the second sentence is very precise, I quote: “They will have the right to return to them the property that has been taken away from them during their enmity since '91. and that all property which cannot be returned to them may be compensated." Therefore, I ask that it remain on a consistently defined solution in point 1, of Article 1 of this annex 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u317	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? If no one is answering, I would like to close the debate under this law with the conclusion that these proposed amendments, as well as other amendments, are being delivered in writing to the Assembly Secretariat by 18.11.1999 so that they can be addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers for a statement. I would ask that, within 7 days, all the amendments that have been said today, as well as those deemed to be required by certain MPs, delegates, be delivered, delivered by this deadline so that the Council of Ministers of BiH can be made known and that we can continue to debate this law. Who's to this conclusion? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. I agree that we have adopted this conclusion unanimously and I would ask all MPs, delegates, to honour this 7-day deadline to submit their written amendments to this law to the BiH Council of Ministers. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The draft electoral law of BiH, the promoter, delegate in the House of the Peoples Drago Ljubičić We received two drafts of the electoral law, one of these laws is the draft of the BiH electoral law, which was made by the OSCE, that is, the OHR and together with prominent experts from BiH, and a delegate appears as a promoter in the Drago Ljubičić People's House. Is there any need for the motionor to say something or should we go with the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u318	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen from the OSCE and OHR offices... the commission, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, I attended yesterday a session of the Representative's Council on whose agenda were also one and another draft electoral law, which in an appropriate way had already come into the procedure and parliamentary debate and I had the opportunity to accept, at yesterday's meeting of the Representative's Council, listening to part of the debates and comments, personally notice certain, so to speak, remarks in this law which, in a certain way, I am still disputing you, fully, procedurally and on the basis of the Rules, the introduction of this law in parliamentary debate. Yesterday, the Council of Representatives was accepted to hold a principle debate on one law and another, meaning without proposing amendments, in terms of correction or amendment of this law. I realized that the House of People's Sessions should enable, provide, both procedurally and legally and formally, part more, means those obligations that were highlighted yesterday in order to take place at the next session, and the next meetings, could lead to a further discussion of this draft law, with the possibility, normally, of what I just said earlier, i.e. the amendments to how delegates, i.e. MPs, will consider. I took the opportunity yesterday to make the Representative Council, because I felt it necessary, I considered it my obligation, to fully inform the MPs in the Representative Council, and I considered it my obligation, because it appeared through the discussion, through comments, something that was not clear to people, MPs, that I appeared as the legislator of this law, and I think we all know that the draft law was done by a working group that was previously formed and elected at BiH level, in co-operation with the OSCE kancelarija and in collaboration with the OHR Office. I don't want to take up much of your time, but I also consider it my obligation today, as far as the College members are concerned, we know that I have appeared in the role of the promoter, but because of the other delegates in this house, I, here, allow me, in the shortest lines just to pass on to you that you have the right information as I have appeared in the role of the promoter of this draft. On the 26th 10th, we had an appointment with Ambassador Mr. Beri on this draft, because seven days, members of both homes, co-workers of both homes, received it officially from the ambassadors. That meeting is then and agreed. The aim of the meeting was, then, that was the first official meeting and talks of ambassadors with representatives and officials from BiH institutions, so I was also informed by the ambassadors that any remarks were immediately seen at the first meeting and that opinions were exchanged on the draft itself. During the discussion and discussion at the joint meeting, certain dilemmas have already arisen, or issues when it comes to the law. One thing I accept is to say the essential questions is that at this meeting and the discussion, however procedurally, legally and formally, that this law should be introduced into a parliamentary debate, because the law also highlights the comments on round tables already held, the comments of yesterday's Council of Representatives, the preamble issue, the reasonings of this draft, as well as the name of the promoter, as the Rules of Procedure must also point out who the Proposer is. Let's not go any further, we've come to the conclusion during the debate that we didn't have a proprietor at this point. We have been informed by Mr. Beri that, however, we should cut short our time on the proposal, we have been informed by Mr. Beri that the deadline is the beginning of February, the time until this law should be passed and based on it to hold general parliamentary elections in September 2000. By estimating these facts, esteeming several others, too, significant facts, here, I, as a member of the College at that session, had one proposal to bridge, to resolve this procedurally, legally, formal issue of the promoter, to be a College, normally knowing the Rules of Procedure, although I am not in my proposal, means that I am also thinking, of this element, that the College, as a body, cannot be a proposing. I was proposed at the same session to take advantage of my delegation's right to be a promoter, which I did and in such a way, so it was a sincere intention, myself, to cut short the time of this settlement, and to create more space and time for a more useful debate, that's what I said yesterday, and in my opinion it was more useful to discuss what was already going on on the Representative's Council yesterday, and what we are likely to talk about at our session, because through that debate there is also an opportunity for MPs and it is an opportunity for delegates to give their proposals, to say to their amendments, to have opportunities, in terms of 5 improvements to this law. In this way, I have appeared in the role of the legislator of this law and I repeat, the Law has worked as a working group at BiH level, it is known to everyone, formally, I am only in the role of the promoter. Today, I would also suggest that I take this opportunity to, behold, since we have accepted this agenda, that even at today's session, in principle, we will hold a debate such as yesterday's debate on the Representative's Council, it is a principle of one debate, and by the next session, I hope and I believe that we will also bridge those procedural remarks that were highlighted yesterday on the Representative's Council and that we will create conditions for the next sessions and the Representative Council and the Council of the People, in practice, to re-debate this draft, with the possibility of proposing and investing amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. We've created a dynamic plan at the House College to discuss these laws, it's two laws, draft election laws. At today's session, I propose that we hold a principle debate on these proposed draft electoral laws and that in the next period we enter into procedures, amendments, statements and detailed discussions, reading of these laws, through the establishment of drafts and proposals of these laws. Who's next to answer the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u320	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I personally think the proposal, that is, the draft election law is quite good, but they have here, in my opinion, three important things that we should find a better solution. 1. The issue of equality of citizens here is quite questionable, and it is, I think, directly related to the BiH Constitutional Court's statement on the consistency of citizens, i.e., the people in the BiH area. I would take the opportunity to propose to the international community to animated the work of the BiH Constitutional Court. I think something about the BiH Constitutional Court's work is stuck. As far as I know, there was enough time for all procedures to be followed and for the BiH Constitutional Court to be determined on the matter. It will essentially affect the quality of the Electoral Law. In this situation we now have, we would have had about one third of BiH's citizens not to be equal to the other part, two thirds of the citizens, which are Bošnjak and Hrvat in the RS and Srbin space of the Federation of BiH. I will repeat the proposal that the international community animates the work of the BiH Constitutional Court to plead on the issue of the constitution of the people in the whole of BiH. 2. It's a matter of mandate. It seems to me that according to this draft now, it would happen that every two years we have elections, and this would, in fact, be a real burden for this country, regardless of what the mandates are for four years, it seems to me that for the level of the Federation of BiH and the RS and BiH, they're separated from the municipalities and cantons, and it would happen that every two years we have elections that would be economically and in all other fields leave clues, because we know that in front of elections, minority, half-years simply work, because everyone is preparing for elections, so we should coordinate that, whether they're going to be at the same time or at some half-year apart, 6 but the elections should be every four years, and not every two years, for all levels in one year to be elections. 3. The question of the so-called question. Model P2. Indeed, the question is once again raised by citizens who have the opportunity to dispose of their property, whether they have the right to dispose of their property in one city, especially with housing property, and to apply as displaced persons and vote in another municipality. We have many such citizens who exercise their right, exercise their right, and remain as displaced persons and vote for another municipality. I think that this should be arranged to avoid manipulation of votes and voters, these are my three basics and comments and suggestions and I would suggest that under these three issues that I consider to be an essential attempt to find a better solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u321	Thank you very much. Today's House session was joined by the Presidents of the Council of Europe, Mr Peter Bloetzera, Mrs Anneli Jaattcenmaki and Mr Peter Iiskola, and I welcome them on behalf of the People's House. Also in large numbers, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers are present at today's meeting, and I welcome them as well. We continue with a further discussion on the draft draft of the election draft by Mr. Drago Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u322	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, we have heard the procedure preceding the draft of this law. I think that the draft of this law is a good basis for discussion and that it is a good thing that is being brought at this time, it may be necessary to speed up the activities around it a little bit, because I'm afraid that we are not too late, in addition to everything else, given that certain activities on the basis of working materials that have been carried out on the ground, on cantons, etc. Given the situation that we now have to appear as the legislator of this law, Mr Ljubičić, and while respecting the current practice in the work, I think there is a lack of a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers here now on this law because the proposer is Mr Ljubičić, so I ask whether and whether it will need such a statement from the BiH Council of Ministers for further work on this draft? True, the conclusion is that we are talking in general about a complete bill, but when a man talks about it, he has to touch certain standards in the law, so I would start with article 1.5, where the vote is spoken and mentioned on the basis of the application of the residence in a particular municipality. Since it's about voting rights at all levels, there's a difference between the practice so far and this six-month residence is not compatible with many so far passed regulations and we'll have big problems if this stays like this in the law. How are we going to exercise property rights if a man is seeking the exercise of property rights in one municipality, and he is exercising his political right, the right to vote on another municipality, so I think it would be good to consider all this and to see that at least instead of this 7 temporary status, the residence, wherever the word of residence appears, puts the word residence in the law, in order to avoid further disagreement with the implementation of many laws, because this, the truth is, in the proposal, is, and this mention of residence will again be contrary to the proposed text and in the proposal of this law, in Article 6.7, etc. Article 8, paragraphs 1 and 2, mentions the incompatibility of the executive functions with the current way and with the selection of mayors of municipalities. The head of the municipality, according to the draft law, is elected from the council, meaning, in the order of the legislative authority. The head of the municipality is the commissioner and he is a representative and is headed by the executive authority of the administration. All the cantons so far have provided for their constitutions that the head of the municipality is not elected from the legislative body, from the council, and in particular it will be contrary to the separation of the executive and legislative authority. I think that these two will be incompatible, and especially then this final position of Article 1.8 says that all candidates who go to the list should resign. Should it, in this case, be the current head of the municipality, to go to the election list, to resign now or when it will all be. In Article 1.15, it is necessary to consider whether the happy solution is that the elections are scheduled to take place only in one day. Is it possible on the basis of this, if it is, the law will be passed, if all these other norms are made, it is quite a complicated way of choosing and whether it will be possible to implement it only on one Saturday or maybe it should be put on two days, Saturdays and Sundays. According to the draft of this law, the House of Representatives appointed the BiH Election Commission, and in Article 2.14, paragraph 15, the report is submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly, meaning both homes and the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. What is the reason to change the term of office of MPs in the House of Peoples, since they remained in the House of Representatives for four years, and in the House of Peoples for two years. Article 1.17, are the very happy numbers of candidates under these cantons, i.e. these election units that are provided for in this law, also well-defined? Is it a good solution in choosing the BiH presidency to vote precisely on entities, since the election is being held for the presidents and the chairmans of the BiH presidency, not the entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u323	I would also like to welcome Mr. Ambassador Beri, who attends with his associates at this meeting of the House today. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u324	Dear Presidency, allow me to say a few words about the BiH Election Law Draft. I think we can all agree that the draft submitted to Parliament was delivered to something with a delay, but it is still good that it was delivered and that Parliament gave its opinion on it before it came to the stage of the proposal and the adoption of the law itself. Following various round tables and discussions held at different levels in BiH and both entities, however, we have seen that there are many objections to the current law. The remarks are different, but when we ask for an answer from those who worked on the law, then 8 are usually said to agree with those remarks, but such formulations do not allow the BiH Constitution to stop the entity. However, there is one fact, if we could come and reach a political consensus to pass an electoral law that corresponds to all BiH citizens, in the BiH Parliament, then there would be no obstacle and change the BiH Constitution. Because if we are willing to accept certain solutions in the BiH Election Law and achieve this consensus, then there is no dispute that Parliament will change by two-thirds of the majority and some of the provisions in the BiH Constitution that would allow the electoral law to be as required in most BiH citizens. Since we are in principle discussing this electoral law today, and we are not giving it any amendments, although the predecessors, in practice, have tried to make some amendments, I personally think that this law has entered a certain newspaper. This particular newspaper consists of the following: in the selection of members of the BiH presidency, because they were introduced preferentially, then it refers to the election of the House of Representatives, one and the other, because the lists and new election units have been opened, which so far, the truth was not available. It refers to the incompatibility of executive and legislative functions, which I think we all need to accept, and not that we should accept, we should all strive, that legislative and executive functions are incompatible. This also applies when it comes to elections, which were previously discussed by colleagues, about the mayors of municipalities, etc. However, I personally think that this law will serve all of us to give quality amendments in the coming period and to allow the BiH Commission that has worked on this law and Mr. Beri and Mr. Ljubičić, as a pronoun, to make an effort to improve this law with a proposal that would be acceptable to the BiH Parliament. I would personally advocate it, and I will advocate that the BiH Parliament adopts this law so that once we have a legal act on which citizens will choose the legislative authorities, not the provisional rules, and I would like it adopted by the BiH Parliament, but that, to be free, someone else imposes or adopts it, and that is the High Representative, which is not excluded. Therefore, every discussion that is being held, and the proposal, I consider it well-intentioned and I think that, as such, it is also necessary to accept that, after all these discussions and discussions, we then come up with a joint proposal, and that we are allowed to make concrete amendments to the concrete members of the Electoral Law, so that, indeed, the Proposer can make a more realistic proposal for the BiH Election Law as possible. To be honest, I think it is high time that the BiH Parliament passed the Electoral Law. You know the temporary rules were only for '96. A year for the '96 election. Year, we couldn't do it until '98. and should not happen to us in early 2000 if we do not pass the Election Law and, therefore, in the Election Law, we do not choose all legislative bodies at all levels in BiH, as it will say in entities, at BiH level, at the level of entities, cantons and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u325	Who's next to the word? Mr. Zorić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u326	Dear fellow MPs, gentlemen of the chairman, on behalf of the Croatian Representatives' Club in this house, I'm looking for a break of one 20 minutes. I see the chairman is confused. I waited because I saw that there were no more debaters.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u327	The Croatian People's Club has asked for a break, I'm taking 15 minutes off. Before I give my word, i.e. before taking the word Mr. Vlado Šoljić, they asked the Council of Europe gentlemen to apologize, because they have a further protocol and they will not continue to participate in the work and, too, they have asked us to make efforts to make what they have set as a goal, to try together with the House of Representatives as a task, to join the Council of Europe, to make an additional effort to adopt certain laws that they have laid down before us, as a condition and a programme of work that they have insisted on in particular, I have been asked to pass on to you in this conversation which was ongoing in the break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u328	Gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the international community, ladies and gentlemen, we are today officially starting the adoption procedure, after the Constitution, the most important law, at least I think, for every country. Parliament's role in the adoption of the basic law, the Constitution, was practically zero. We were not even involved in the constitution, and there was no need to think about the debate or its possible vote, and I believe there was no need for that. If that was normal during the war, for the Constitution it is not normal that we have not adopted so far and that at least now we do not adopt or make the Election Law ourselves. It is certainly not simple, our friends from the international community who have made an effort to make a proposal. To them, however, it was easier to do, they still look at it from the side. They are not burdened by what we are burdened with, our history, our problems, and, in the extreme line, with all respect and their responsibility, we will still live here and this law will apply to us. I will briefly remind the two constitutions adopted for BiH in its short history. The first one was brought, some coincidence, in the year I was born and I was born in '43. In the war, and there is no one in BiH who is so old that he remembers something, that he was full of age before the war, that he did not know that BiH was defined, we know it well, because it was written in books, in the Constitution, etc., as a state that is neither Serbian nor Croatian nor Muslim, but also Serbian and Croatian and Muslim, and with all its shortcomings, in that country it was considered to be the highest duty to be assigned to each nation to be represented and largely satisfied. As much as it worked in practice, it was another thing, but theoretically and in principle it was respected. The second time was the BiH Constitution worked far in Dayton, but BiH was also defined as a community of three equal constituent nations. In both cases, when it is founded, 10 is defined as a multinational community of three constituent nations, of course other peoples living in it. I am convinced that different BiH cannot be built or maintained. The natural thing is, it's meant to be democratic and exactly the way it was founded in Dayton. Now you're asking a basic question. Why does everything go slow with us, why is there no law and what problems follow us, and maybe they shouldn't? The basis of this is whether we want to or whether we are building exactly that kind of BiH. Did we learn from the lesson of everything that followed us in history, and she was very bad, bloody, and these experiences our painfully reduced, mostly, to the next. When the occupiers ruled here, and they ruled long and bloodyly, we were all equal, numbers, they called us by different names, but mostly, they didn't care how we differed, except that some of the privileges were given to themselves by those who accepted their policy and who had already expressed superiority towards them. When, however, in the former Yugoslavia, the first and second, we decided some measures about ourselves, it was, at the very least, that the most numerous people provided for themselves the epithet of the fundamental people, the guardians of the state and all that was positive, and for those less, the few, they were weak patriots, separatists, and all that was negative, which created a climate for domination. Should we rebuild such a state, and we know what they called it, BiH, as we beat it, we called it Yugoslavia in small. I don't think that epithetist suits her right now. Niko of us, I think, would want such a state to be created, perhaps some would just be with the changed roles of the fundamental people. I hope the occupiers no more. So it is up to us to build a community that suits us and needs us. We have a constitution, so far it's unchangeable, and I personally think it's a good framework, a good foundation for building exactly the kind of democratic community we need. Do we have this new law, it's the second most important, we build so that the rights are realised as they are drawn in the Constitution, i.e. that we may indeed be equal? Does every nation choose its representatives, at least in the most important bodies in which they agree and in which vital national interests are protected, that is primarily the BiH Presidency, the BiH House of Peoples and many others? I'd like to add a little something here that my dear colleague used to say earlier, and I'd say a friend, Mr. Čampara, who is a lawyer, and I'm particularly surprised by him. Mr. Čampara certainly knows, and I think we should all know that the Constitution does not conform to the Election Law, but the Election Law adapts to the Constitution. Therefore, if there are any problems, there are procedures as to how the Constitution is changed, but I think we'll wander into a forest that won't be easy to get out of, it'll be a jungle, if we step down from a fundamental act called the Constitution. You noticed that Mr. Zorić had just come out, it was a small misunderstanding, he came a little later, because our earlier agreement was to make some more detailed remarks about this law. But as the debate flows in the direction of only coming out in principle, then, a little bit of confusion, we agreed that I should be the one to make the basic remarks. There wasn't time for us to study it in more detail, to make comments, but I would say exactly what my predecessors were saying, therefore, the basic ones. This bill, according to me and those who have considered it in this short time, deviates from the Constitution in some of its elements. When you say this, a lot of people express disdain, some for one reason, and some for other reasons, but we have to create a climate here so that we can talk in an argument, that no one resents that there's something behind this pay phone, which they think is normal, which doesn't offend anyone. This refers to the Constitution, 11 except that there is no preamble, trying to define the areas defined by the laws of entities, which, as far as I know, are from the foundation.. The Constitution (?). Furthermore, the most important thing for us is the way we vote, the election of members of the BiH presidency. So one absurd got another absurd. In the past, it was only possible for a Croatian member of the BiH presidency to choose another people, we are now adding a new absurdity, to be chosen by one who has not received the most votes, it would be a total confusion in the people, among all of us, for the other to elect a representative and for the one who has not received the most votes. I think this deficit should be done as soon as possible, and hopefully finally and absolutely change, to a number of other formulas that may be questionable, but can be better, worse, but, mostly, they're from my point of view of two basic observations. I believe that we, however, will turn the atmosphere, it seems, not bad to me, that we will succeed in making this law, tolerantly, into such a law that will lead to one democratic state and the possibility that every nation, and hence, every citizen, will ultimately exercise his rights and his freedoms that are foreseen and made possible by the Dayton Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u329	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u330	Dear Presidency, fellow delegates, honored guests, I will try, on behalf of the Club of Delegates of the Republic of Slovenia in principle, to make several remarks on the draft of this law. First of all, I would not repeat those things that were presented yesterday, at least not in general, at the House of Representatives and many of the things that have been presented today by fellow delegates and, I say, I would not enter into particulars, but a few of the principles that I have to make, and I heard that in public debates and on the Constitutional Commission, these views, which I am now going to make, are mostly in line with the opinion and other members of the Constitutional Commission of the Serbian people, and most of those present who participated in the debate, on the round table of members of the Constitutional House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. First of all, I said I won't repeat it, but really some things that are important and that Mr. Šoljić has already expressed, my position and attitude of the Club of Delegates in the order of the Serb people is also that this draft electoral law is in many ways deviating from the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution, that it is contrary to the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions. This is the first and most important fundamental lack of this law, and if we want to get a good law, it must indeed be in line with both the BiH Constitution and the constitutions of both entities. The first and the basics are already said, there is no preamble, there is no legal basis, or legal basis, no legal basis is mentioned anywhere, or legal foothold for the adoption of this law. I agree with Mr Šoljić's conclusion that we cannot bring the constitutions into line with the electoral law, because we know what the procedure is and how long it would take the procedure for amending both the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution, and we all agree that the electoral law needs it as soon as possible, both at BiH level and at entity level, so that we can conduct democratic elections both at BiH level and at entity level. Therefore, I think that we all agree that we need the Election Law, that we need to bring it within the foreseen deadline, but that it is acceptable for all three peoples, both entities, and it will probably need 12 compromises, and I hope that after these discussions we will find compromise solutions and that eventually this electoral law will be one that will be in line with both the Constitution and in the interests of both entities and all three peoples. The second remark would be, and that is already said somewhere, that this election law is too centralised at BiH level. Many powers, i.e. very large powers, have been given to the BiH Election Commission, and almost nothing, or very little remains in the entity's jurisdiction, and we know that, under the Dayton Constitution, electoral law and elections are within the entity's jurisdiction. I think this law should regulate the elections in the joint bodies of BiH in detail, and in principle only define those things concerning the entity-level elections and leave them to their electoral laws, which should be passed after the adoption of this electoral law, regulate more detailed elections at entity level. That's what I'm proposing, this particular Article 20, point 12 should, in that sense, change. In that article, according to the draft of this law, it states, in Section 2, that entities are obliged to comply with their regulations with this law. However, I would suggest that it decidently states that entities are obliged to pass their electoral laws within 40 or 45 days of the adoption of this law. Another thing that fell for my eye is too much authority from the High Representative. The electoral law regulates many things and decidently regulates them who have the right to go to elections, under which conditions, who can't get out of the elections, etc., all of them are regulated by Articles 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.8, is decidably regulated who can't be a candidate in the elections. Even though there are shortcomings where it is said that persons suspected of certain actions cannot go to the polls, which automatically violates the basic principle of right, the principle of innocence, and therefore the attitude is controversial. I don't think it should stand like that and that only those persons who have been proven guilty can't be candidates, and the suspects, I don't think that kind of attitude should stand in the law. Articles 1.7 and 1.11 The draft of this law, mentioned by the BiH court, is not said which court, I mean, is not clear to me in those members when the BiH court is mentioned, which court is thought of. Article 1.12 explicitly prohibits the holders of all levels of authority from discriminating persons because of their belonging to this or that party, and if it is so regulated by law, I am afraid that the powers of the High Representative, and this is the fundamental human right guaranteed by all international conventions, that the elections of the persons can be elected and elected, it is regulated by this member, but, behold, we have seen, although we heard Mr Moris some day on public hearing that the draft of this law has been done for five months, somewhere since May, and in the meantime, when this draft came out, we are having a public debate, a day of high representative or, I don't know, the office forbids certain persons and individual parties to go to elections, although both those persons and those parties have been legally and legitimately involved in the elections, which does not only stand with these parties, or the majority of the vote, 30% of the parties, or the majority of the majority of the vote, or the majority of the majority of the parties, or of the majority of the 30% of the parties, or of the majority of the majority of the majority of the parties, of the parties, or of the parties, or of the majority of the majority of the parties, of the vote, of the parties, or of the parties, or of the parties, or of the parties, or of the parties of the majority of the majority of the parties, of the parties, or of the majority of the parties of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties, of the parties, of the parties, or of the parties of the parties of the majority of the majority of the parties of the parties of the parties of the majority of the parties, of the parties of the parties, of the parties, or of the parties, or of the parties of the parties, or of the parties of the parties of the majority of the majority of the parties, or of the parties of the parties, of the parties of the parties of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the majority of the parties of the majority of the parties, of the parties, or of the parties of the parties, of the parties, or of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties of the parties, Therefore, I fear that if the powers of the High Representative remain like this and after the adoption of this law, that these same things will happen to us and that many faces, parties, or even perhaps the entire people will not be able to make the election by one man. Thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to look back at this draft election law without entering into detail. I think that the solutions given in this electoral law are quite limited by the solutions given in the Constitution, the Dayton Agreement, and I think that what is necessary, before the decision itself and the final statement on this law, is to bring the constitution of two entities into line with the Constitution of BiH, respecting the European Convention on Human Rights. Here these legal solutions do not guarantee an active and passive electoral right, i.e. that the citizen is elected and that he chooses both Srbin in the Federation and Bošnjak and Hrvat in RS. I would like to ask a question, can the non-Serb be elected to the highest position in the RS, whether a non-Croat or a skyscraper, or whether a Srbin can be elected to the highest post in the Federation of BiH? What I want to point out, as a phenomenon, is that the election for the highest leadership of two entities, the election of presidents and vice presidents of the Federation of BiH, and the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH are not identical, one is elected directly, and the other are elected by indirect means, which brings us into an unequal position, i.e. by observing these two entities within BiH. Why would I advocate it is also about the thinking given in Article 4.4, concerning the adoption of certain votes, signatures, or the creation of censorships over the number of signatures, related to the election of members of the BiH presidency. The solutions given here speak of a minimum number of signatures given the number of citizens who are interested in who will represent them in the BiH presidency. I believe that this fee of 3,000 signatures and 1,000 signatures from another entity should be increased, with the fact that, when we speak, I would not speak from another entity but from the order of another nation, or other people, of a non-Serb people, in order to make it clearer, for one who is running for member of the BiH presidency of the Bošnjak should provide a far greater number of votes from another entity, non-Serbs and nehrvats and vice versa in all three possible combinations. What is already said, and what is also unacceptable in this law, is the indetermination of the solutions given for P2. form. Those six months are very discussional and already many possible manipulations are related to the electoral body. To return to the Federation of BiH. What I would have committed to this law, given the experience so far, that list holders should be candidates for the captain, or president of the canton. So far, it has largely been that we have the bearers of a list of individual parties presented as potential candidates, and other people have been elected to those positions of the captain and president of the canton. I think it's a voter scam. This should, in a further procedure, try to prevent real representatives and real candidates from being predetermined in front of voters. If we do not already have the possibility, or if no legal solution is proposed, that is to say, that directly candidates are elected to those places. I also have a vague position: forming an executive authority in the municipality, the canton and other levels. This solution, which has been given that, depending on the election results, executive power will be formed, means that all political parties will already have the right to participate in the formation of the executive authority. I don't think it's a good solution, because this is how both the position and the opposition are made, and where there's no opposition, I'm afraid there's no quality shifts in the democratisation of society and the rest, because those solutions will ultimately lead to the position that all authorities are and we don't have any quality or opposition or position. On the other hand, 14 would be very difficult in practical implementation, implementation of election results, quality solutions, quality redistribution of authorities. Everywhere in the world, so I don't see why not here and here, there are post-election coalitions that conquer the required majority and form power, the rest are opposition. What I would generally say, regarding this draft law, I fear that citizens are absolutely uninformed about the draft of this law, that there is a lot of uncertainty as to how we are going to carry out a quality election presentation and that such legal solutions, i.e., such an electoral procedure, require a very high degree of voter education, which I am not sure that with these solutions given here, we will be able to explain to everyone how to fulfil their electoral right, to exercise their electoral right. That draft, or the appearance of the voter list itself, or the ballot, as it will appear, I think it will be a huge ballot, unseen, that the function of open lists, as it is imagined, will not be feasible through this mechanism, such as so far, imagined to be fully realized, without saying that a large number, or most citizens, BiH still does not know what an open list means, and let alone other solutions within the draft law. The issue of campaign financing and election implementation is only here in the first place. I'm not sure that quality solutions are possible, and I'm not sure that smart ideas and smart alternatives are possible through this law. However, as set up, firstly, I'm not sure whether I can control the financial flows of campaign management, and secondly, I think that small parties, no matter how high-quality candidates they have, have no chance through these solutions to fund the election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u332	The esteemed Presidency, esteemed colleagues, distinguished guests, One of the signatories, submitr of the draft election law, in front of the promoter, the SDP BiH, was me on a separate basis. I'd like to withdraw my personal position, the debate so far, is mostly under point 2, so there wasn't much touching, and this other document that, in my opinion, is in equal treatment, at least at this stage. However, since there is a principle debate, I too would like to make a few assessments in principle. First of all, I personally experience one and another way as a solid basis for coming to an election law that will be widely accepted, of general interest to all BiH citizens. In that sense, the proposed SDP draft law of BiH comes from BiH's constitutional establishment as a multiethnic state with two multiethnic entities and three peoples who are equal throughout its territory, meaning BiH territory. When drawing up the draft electoral law, we tried to remove the possibility of legalisation, national segregation, possibly the organisation of the institutionalisation of the Apache... at the level of the state parliament and the improvement of the process of restoring trust and establishing interethnic tolerance as preconditions for the common life of BiH citizens and the survival of the BiH state. 15
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u333	I would ask that we stick to the solution now, we will open the issue of this electoral law proposed by the SDP, and to stick to the solutions given in the draft of the law given by Drago Ljubičić. We'll have that as our next act.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u334	I meant in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u335	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I have carefully watched and listened to the presentations of esteemed colleagues. I would suggest this opportunity to bring this point to an end for one reason at a time, not for any concrete suggestions, you know. Here we have a draft law where I now have to congratulate Mr. Beri's team who came up with a proposal like this for one reason why we see here diversity and attempt to really get everyone through something more of their own on this election law. If we take the specificities of the BiH state, pre-war, post-war, especially I think this draft bill on elections has hit, essentially, the essence of the Dayton Agreement, i.e. The essence of the BiH Constitution through the Dayton Agreement, in essence, to mention that basic word again, struck what brought peace in BiH and what will keep peace in BiH. Any attempt through the Electoral Law to push something through within the Dayton BiH Constitution itself or any one whose desire to dominate some of its proposals and some of its steps would be a mistake, as this was a highly esteemed team of people with a fantastic review of the situation in BiH. They've ignored a few little things, but let me tell you, it's about time somebody finally got at least some kind of declarative support from another entity whether they could go to the polls or not. I'd just like to find out on this occasion that I'm glad Mr. Pajić said some things on behalf of himself, you know. Some things don't fit in with the Serbian delegates' club, and he was concise. In any case, there will come a time in this country when the powers of the High Representative will indeed be reduced to a minimum, but if there were no authority from the High Representative in BiH, if there were no international community, thanks to most people here, it would probably still be this war, right? It is up to us now to learn a little democracy after the regimeal decisions, to learn democracy by adopting the basic democratic norms of the civilized world and now really talking about our seeing things, our seeing this law, the draft law, believe me, if we gave it simply to our teams to make this law, let's say, Serbian, Croatian and Muslim, that would be totally diametrically different, everyone would see that through this electoral law, they achieve their domination. It is high time for the peoples of BiH to be told that the time of fraud and domination has passed. The Constitution, i.e. The Dayton Constitution guarantees BiH as a state of two entities and three constituent nations, proof of the guarantee of the rights of these peoples is also this House of Peoples here that seems to me... That it came back in '92. The years until consensus, there certainly wouldn't be a war. So, in this situation, we have to look as closely as we can through these suggestions that some much smarter people seem to suggest, not that we try to water this thing down and drag in certain little things where someone is going to point tomorrow, in a year or two or three at that stupidity, or instantly, and at that someone's little bit more tolerance. 16 Once again, I would like to congratulate Mr. Beri and the team who has come up with this proposal for a draft election in BiH. So far, we are not in a situation where we can bring some additions and amendments, but, therefore, in this global conversation, I said what I had and I congratulate you once again on what you hit essentially in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u336	Although we as the House of Peoples are numerically small, I think today was an extremely high-quality debate over the draft electoral law. I think, if constructive debates are extended this way, there will be a solution as the OSCE suggests, early next year. I agree with Mr. Šoljić that the law must be brought into line with the Constitution, not the Constitution with the law, and in particular, I agree that all three constituent nations must be equal and it would be a disaster to no matter what it brings. However, I may have been a little confused at first, and that now reminded me of Mr. Žigić's proposal, and I thought the following, if we have a consensus that we want to pass the electoral law, if there is a political consensus of all three peoples, then there is no problem in adopting the first constitution – amendments and additions, and then, based on these amendments and additions to pass the law that we have reached agreement that it should be. But that's what I said – now they're telling us, if you want that law, but it doesn't allow the Constitution. There are also certain provisions in this law that I don't know if they are fully in line with the BiH Constitution. Two or three. Not to mention another law we'll discuss later. Mr Žigić rightly says they need the president of the Federation of BiH and the deputy president of the Federation of BiH to choose as the RS president and vice president are elected. And I must immediately say, if it will be, then the Constitution of the Federation of BiH must be amended. Because in this law is what the FBiH Constitution says. Therefore, we will be forced to pass the law in accordance with the BiH Constitution and the entity's constitutions. Otherwise, if we don't, if we don't reach a political consensus here, I've said it before, and I'm saying now, we're putting ourselves in danger of being brought by a high representative, which I wouldn't like. I think it's best for parliament to pass this law. And today's debate at this home, and it has shown so far, shows the maturity of the MPs to discuss everything and to bring quality solutions. I think we need to bring solutions that will be consistent with the Constitution, that's normal, one and the other. And if we think we should do something else, which the Constitution does not allow, and if we had a full political consensus in the BiH Parliament, that's what I thought, then it wouldn't be a problem either in entities or at the level of BiH for some of the amendments. But I still think it's harder to change the constitutions than to pass the law in accordance with the existing constitution. I think we're closer to that option and that this option will eventually be final.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u337	Is anyone else answering for word? Does the promoter have a need to speak? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Still, here it is, Mr. Drago Ljubičić. 17
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u338	Gentlemen, if there are no more debaters under the draft of this law that we've been having, I have one proposal, according to a proposal from yesterday's Council of Representatives session. The conclusion was that a stenogram of discussion on this draft was made and delivered to the promoter and the OSCE office, Mr. Beri. I suggest that it be a conclusion from this session of the House of Peoples. So a stenogram of all these discussions is done and delivered to these two places. If the other delegates have the need to multiply and for all delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u339	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? If not, I propose that we adopt this conclusion as proposed by Mr Ljubičić, that the Secretariat of Parliament be obliged to prepare a stenogram of discussions that we have conducted today and to deliver to the promoter and the OSCE to provide possible answers and explanations to all the issues that we have asked today. At the same time, I would like to point out that you have received one plan today to consider BiH's draft election laws in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Both colleges separately made the framework plan to consider draft electoral laws. I think we'll be able to honor him, and according to him, the next debate within the House is somewhere early next month, when we should also determine the draft laws according to this dynamic plan. I would now like to make a statement about this conclusion and move on to the next item of the agenda. Who is to this conclusion, to commit the sekretarijat to delivering a stenogram of discussion to the promoter and the OSCE so that we can continue to prepare the debate, whether at round tables or at some other level, either in parliament itself? Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind? There isn't. Abstained? There isn't. I find that we unanimously adopted such a conclusion that is identical to the conclusion of the House of Representatives. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's the 3rd point of Ad.3. A draft of Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law, proposed by the SDP MEPs' Club of BiH, does there need to be someone on behalf of the proposing step forward? Mr. Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u340	I thank you, Mr. President, and I beg your pardon for the misunderstanding. 18 [[speaks from the site – that it is a misunderstanding that he speaks on behalf of the promoter]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u341	Then he can give us information as a representative of the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u342	Okay, I'll cut it short. I began to explain the reasons why the draft was referred to a public debate, i.e., in the procedure. Since we have problems here, whether or not I am, we're not gonna talk about it. I would only ask, after we have received this document, and I think that it is in equal treatment – that it would be truly desirable, democratic and civilizational to provide international expertise, too, over this document and to give the opinion of the international community, above all, of the Peace Implementation Council in BiH, as well as experts of the Council of Europe on the proposed solutions in the BiH draft electoral law model, for the reason of absorbing the principles offered in this document, for the reasons of the absorption of respect for international conventions, in particular the Convention on Human Rights, for the purpose of absorbing the offered solutions from the point of view of the constitutional regulation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u343	I think that this bill too, just because it's on the agenda, is equal to the other bill, and I think it has equal treatment for this home. On the other hand, I want to tell you that on behalf of the College, we have referred the same to the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, and we have not yet received a statement under both draft laws. Who's next to the word? Here, Čampara will talk.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u344	You know, every bill of electoral law, anyone who proposes it, we need to approach it with the greatest attention and the greatest seriousness. The proposal for an election law proposed by the SDP contains, in relation to the current OSCE rules, a large newspaper. It also contains large newspapers and compared to the proposed Electoral Law, which he has offered, as a proposer, Mr Ljubičić, who was created by a group designated by the OHR for the making of this law. However, it is true when he spoke to the esteemed delegate that this law is very much based on the Charter of Human Rights. And he has the highest foothold in that charter. And that's true, when we talk about the human rights statutes, they're above the positive laws of any country. However, this law, proposed by the SDP, would require, not certain, but rooted changes to both the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution. But what is it, there it is. I think the law should go into debate. He is already in discussion at different round tables, and the OSCE and the group in charge of making this law will also see what fate will be on him and whether, under this law and the current electoral law offered, there will be some restrictions and better solutions than are offered in this law. I think it would be too soon to reconsider any solution until we have a proposal for an election law, finally, that will go before the BiH Assembly and that the BiH Parliament will consider. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u345	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If it does not appear, I am closing today's debate on this agenda point with the obligation to treat Mr Draga Ljubicic in the next session of the Assembly equally in the form of the draft electoral law as well as the draft of Mr Drago Ljubičić. I would also like to ask, on behalf of the College, for a request from the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, for the opinion that we would have this law in the regular procedure of further discussion. To make this the conclusion of this home. Do we agree with that? So, another emergency towards the BiH presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on behalf of the House, in order to declare themselves about these two draft laws. Who's in? Thank you very much. We were unanimous. We're moving to the next item of the Ad agenda. 4. Legislative questions. Is anyone answering? Mr. Šoljić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u346	Well, I've been thinking for several months now, and I don't know how long after the arrest of a naturalised citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a certain Amdouni, Turkey, the involvement of some of these citizens in and outside terrorist acts in BiH, prompted a debate by the SDP at the House of Representatives, prompted a major controversy in the press, etc., throughout BiH. And these days, maybe you've been getting, you've been going through various lists of numbers, about the letter that I'm not talking about, there's them in both letters and all three languages, that number goes from several hundred to several thousand. Well, I think it'd be best if she stopped manipulating it. And it will stop when the truth is known. I don't think the truth is a secret. I would therefore ask the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver to this house a list of foreign citizens who have become BiH citizens from the beginning of 1992 to today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-11-0.u347	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If there are no more delegate questions, I am closing the 10th session of the House of Peoples. Thank you for your attention. /K R A J at 13.30 p.m.
