ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u282	I welcome all present delegates and MPs, as well as representatives of international institutions and organisations, as well as present journalists and media representatives. I am opening the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the following agenda is foreseen: 1. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. Proposal for a Law on solution to the problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Austrian Federal Government, 5.. delegatski questions and answers. The materials for this session you got earlier. I agree, before giving the agenda, that 14 delegates/allegates attend today's session and that: 5 in the order of the Hrvat, 5 in the order of the Bošnjak and 4 in the order of the Srbin. So we have a quorum for normal work and decision-making. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Here you go, Mr. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u283	Discussing the agenda, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, since this law was also in its jurisdiction to consider it, has concluded that it proposes that this law be removed from the agenda today for the following reasons: In fact, it is indisputable that there is a clear constitutional relationship, i.e. constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and that this matter should be regulated in BiH. However, because of the well-known events surrounding the issuing of travel documents to a number of citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who have also received citizenship, who have been named in the world indisputable as terrorists, the Commission believes it would be good, due to tensions raised in BiH over this, to remove the law today from the agenda. It is not disputed, and we all agree that this matter must be regulated legally in 2 Bosnia and Herzegovina and I am almost certain that at the next session of this house and this law will be passed. But, the Commission, for these reasons that I have said, proposes to the House to respect this and to remove this point from the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u284	Thank you very much. I have been informed that gentlemen from the Council of Ministers: Tomić, Mihajlović and Rečica are present at the BiH Presidency session and that they cannot be with us today and participate in the work of this session. Is anyone else answering for word? Here you go. Mr. Ivo Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's session on issues of human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum that discussed this Law on Immigrant and Asylum of BiH, which was proposed as the third item of the agenda, and we are also of the view that for today this law should be removed from the agenda. Members of the Commission discussed the law in principle and had certain objections, but did not engage in the consideration of the particulars, because yesterday the PSBiH House of Representatives also had this on the agenda, but it was just a session interrupted when this point was due on the agenda. And since we have previously had the practice of not discussing the laws of the House before the House of Representatives, the unanimous position of this Commission is that, because the Law has not been adopted at the House of Representatives, and we should postpone it, so when adopted, I guarantee that amendments will also be made, then this Commission must meet again and consider it and then the Law can go normally on the agenda and be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u286	Thank you very much. Here you go. Avdo Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u287	Perhaps it would be best if we were to consider today's agenda and adopt the laws and agreements that he was considering yesterday and adopt the House of Representatives, and that, after that, if we can't, we would interrupt the session and continue it in another term as chairors and vice-presidents of the presidential arrangements. Otherwise, we have also concluded today on the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs that we will no longer hold meetings of the Commission after the meeting of the Representatives' House, but that we will hold meetings of the Commission, both on legal issues and other committees, before holding a session of the House of Representatives, so that the Council of Ministers of BiH has in mind and the proposals of the House of Peoples, as has the Commission's proposals of the House of Representatives and that we can then, with the House of Representatives, consider all the issues equally, and our working bodies and us, as the House of Peoples, because this way, if 3 continued as we have so far, it would be practical that we would only confirm or refuse what the House of Representatives brings. I think that we agreed on this committee today, and I think that this was done by Mr. Malić, on legal issues, that all issues before the House of Representatives is discussed by this committee, and that then the Council of Ministers of BiH must have, that is, the Council of Ministers of BiH, whether or not it is the Proposer, all issues of all working bodies, both at home and at the House of Representatives, and perhaps it would be best that, if we agree to, we do not, we will not consider it at one of the next sessions today, given that the predstavnički of Representatives has interrupted the session and did not take it off from the agenda of this point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u288	Thank you very much. We have also proposed here, and on behalf of the College, I propose that we adopt the proposed agenda, by leaving the point of the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina for discussion after the continuation of the House of Representatives' session and after their statement on this law. So we'd have an extension of the 9th session, with this agenda point, after the debate at the House of Representatives. Is this the conclusion that we can adopt, or accept, this agenda with such a conclusion? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we have unanimously adopted the agenda, with 15 delegates present in the work, which means we are complete - all MPs and still joined us in the work of Mr Mirsad Kurtović, as Minister of the Council of Ministers, and I welcome everything once again. So we've adopted the agenda and the proposed agenda is 1. Proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. Proposal for a Law on solution to the problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3. Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Austrian Federal Government, 5.. delegatski questions and answers. Moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. A proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina please the Commission to declare this law. Mr. Malić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u290	Gentlemen of the chairman, colleagues, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission has discussed the proposal for a law on the revision of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and the proposal for a law on resolving the problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Federal Government of Austria on aviation. Following the examination of these two laws, the Commission also took into account the text of the law, i.e. the observations that were made yesterday on these two laws by the House of Representatives and adopted by the Commission. I must say that this Commission has in some detail had different views and opinions than the text of the laws and amendments adopted by the House of Representatives yesterday, together with the law, however, we believe that they are not essentially such as to significantly affect the text of the law adopted yesterday by the House of Representatives. And in that sense, we agreed to accept the amendment adopted by the House of Representatives and with these amendments and the text of the law. I think all delegates have these amendments ahead of them, but here, because of the procedure, if necessary, I will read them and discuss them. If there is a need, and they are the Commission's proposal to both the Law on the Revision of BiH Institutions and the Law on Addressing the Problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, if there's any need to read. We have delivered all the delegates to the table and I suggest that, in that sense, if the Presidency is agreed that we should possibly discuss them in the package or vote in the package. As far as the Commission is concerned, there is no question of any law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u291	Thank you very much. I would also ask the chairman of the Commission, Mr Mugdin Herceg, in front of the Commission for Transport and Communications, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u292	Since we are now discussing the Commission's reports, I will also unite these two cases which have been at the Commission's meeting on transport and communication. It is, in fact, the proposal for a law on resolving the problem in BiH in 2000 and the agreement between the Austrian Federal Government and the Council of Ministers of BiH concerning the establishment of regular air traffic. The agreement delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the draft Law on the problem in 2000 concerns the area of telecommunications and we, within the Commission for Transport and Communications, have assessed and assessed the need to build our own position on this issue for the reason that there is also a foothold in the aforementioned Telecommunications Act, then in certain documents that arise from the Resolution of the General Assembly on Global Implications 2000 and harmonize with computer work problems, as well as an addition to the General Assembly resolution on the need for urgent treatment in addressing the problem in 2000. In the context of this problem, which is reportedly even present on the first day of 2000, the world has already been allocated six hundred billion dollars with the aim of reducing and removing damage caused by the 2000 problem. In order to implement this law, it will also be necessary to provide additional resources in the budget of BiH, the BiH institution and the financial resources, in any case, 5 will be a limiting factor in the implementation of the laws and their location (?) to solve this problem. Discussing this issue, we had in mind the amendments that were adopted yesterday at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives – as Mr Malić also said, I would not read them here, and in this context the Commission's position is to propose to the House of Peoples, together with these amendments, as the House of Peoples, adopt and, respectively, adopt a decision on the adoption of this Law. While I am here, let me also refer to this agreement which was the subject of the debate at the Commission's meeting. It is indisputable that this agreement is in the role of establishing regular traffic between BiH and Austria, that it is signed, or concluded between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government, that we should give consent to this agreement in order to ratify it. Since Austria and BiH are members of the Convention on International Civil Aviation signed in Chicago and members of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, I think that there is a constitutional basis, there is no problem, I think there is nothing controversial in terms of a built-up position on the Commission to propose to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, too, giving consent to this agreement in order to ratify it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u293	Thank you very much. The Commission also zasjedati on the issues of finance and budget and I ask the chairman, Mr Šoljić, to present a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u294	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, the Commission on Finance and Budget Affairs discussed the Bill on the Audit of BiH institutions, adopted the Law, with changes made yesterday by the House of Representatives, and these relate to the change of title and certain technical corrections. This law and its application will allow for insight into budget spending and all other public revenues, and this will certainly be a happy contribution to the fight against crime and all other abuses in the area of finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u295	Thank you very much. Having heard the report from the commission, I suggest we open a debate on the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Zorić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u296	I've been involved in the work of two of these committees, but I've missed a few technical repairs by then, for example. Article 6(5) states that the BiH presidency may be removed from the duties of the auditor general only if both homes of Parliament, and then the decimal “at the same session”. I don't think there's the same session at both homes. It is sufficient to write only if both houses of Parliament adopt a proposal requiring replacements, etc. This “at the same session” is, in my opinion, a technical error and needs to be fixed. Also, in Article 7(2), the deputy general auditor is appointed by the BiH Presidency exclusively with the previous agreement of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It would be better to write only with the previous consent of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes because the businessmen know it, they don't know any common... We had joint sessions, but we voted separately, together, in terms of the debate, but it's only about consent and change, is it, when the BiH presidency can be replaced. There are more repetitions, and in Article 7, point 6 again mentions “at the same session” right between the dots, as if it gives some extra weight to it. I suggest that this inserted, I would say, sentence or phrase is deleted and everything else is in line with the Rules of Procedure, so that we don't now look for the same technical errors here. So it's about different sessions because we always have different sessions. To us today, or to them, 8 or 9, it doesn't have to be the same session or number, let alone—it's impossible for us to sit together and have the same session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u297	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? Here you go. Mirsad Kurtović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u298	First, I welcome you gentlemen. When it comes to the remarks of Mr. MPs, in principle, we, as a legislator, have nothing to do with this change, I will just tell you what was the reason why we entered this formulation, although it is a theoretical assumption that one home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, an illustration, will be resolved by the auditor-general in January and the other in December. That we don't get to that divergent position where we have nine, ten months and we don't know what to do. That is why the formulation “at the same session”, although we know and are aware of the fact that the joint sessions of both homes are very rare or that they are not, in practice, even common. But, in principle, we can accept your observation, by somehow legally formulating it and forming it so that what I just said doesn't happen, that one home solves the auditor then, or sets it up, and another home doesn't set it up, you know, in two, three, five months or more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u299	Mr. Pero Marković. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u300	Regarding this item of the agenda and the announcement of the president of the Croatian Representatives Club, Mr Zorić, also, in connection with the clarification in front of the Council of Ministers here from Mr Kurtović. So, I don't have any objections and I think it's perfectly logical that the same session, right, they understood it that way. The same session does not exist but there are separate sessions and they will draw their conclusions but there is a way that decisions taken in both homes can be agreed, so that commissions are formed and we already know the business. For that reason alone, I wanted to say and, finally, Mr Zorić and I, commenting on this law, wanted, as far as possible, to agree only with the Rules of Procedure and no other specific remarks and the whole text of this law in several articles should be reviewed, technically prepared and it would be good, after that, of course, the chairman or president of clubs, or I don't know how, that would end up being subdued. Thank you. Here, it's just one intervention from the experience of working in a federal home.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u301	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Mr. Mlaćo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u302	Just so you don't realize that this law is passed in a different text than the House of Representatives adopted. I would say, therefore, that we are adopting it with these very remarks of a technical nature agreeing together with the House of Representatives, so we have adopted the law in the same text. So there's no fundamental objection. There's these technical ones to sort it out, and I think that's how it's supposed to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u303	Thank you very much. I propose that we conclude on this issue, that the constitutional legal committees, i.e. the Constitutional Commission, together with the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, bring these technical issues into line. It is technical issues, in line with the Rules of Procedure, i.e., as is the assembly, and let us put to the vote a statement, first on the amendments which are a package of amendments adopted at the House of Representatives, and then a full law as a whole, with the task of being the Constitutional Commission, I repeat once again, that together with the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, we will coordinate these positions that have been made here, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the work of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses. Let's get first on the amendments to the package. Is there any need to read a package of these amendments adopted at the House of Representatives? If you don't, you've all got them. 8 Who is it that we should adopt these amendments that have also been adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, concerning the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted amendments adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on the Proposal for a Law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with adopted amendments that form an integral part of the law as a whole. Who's in? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on the revision of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the conclusion already reached on the compliance with the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The proposal for a law on resolving problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2000 has been put forward by the Commission. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Is there any need for an introduction in front of the promoter? There isn't. Is anyone answering for a word? They also had adopted amendments here at the House of Representatives. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I suggest we also adopt a package of these already adopted amendments at the House of Representatives, and then declare the law as a whole. Who is involved in these adopted amendments at the House of Representatives to be an integral part of the draft law on resolving problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2000? Thank you very much. Against? Abstained? I agree that we unanimously adopted amendments to the draft law on resolving the problem in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm giving the bill of law as a matter of fact. Who's in? Thank you. Against? - Nine abstentions? I find that we unanimously adopted the draft Law on problem solving in 2000 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e., it would now be the YK2 Act. Thank you very much. Third point is A.3. The proposal for a law on immigration and asylum in Bosnia and Herzegovina and I find that we will not hold a debate today at this session, but will take place below, following a statement at the House of Representatives on this law. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government This Agreement has been obtained. The commissions also analysed and gave their position. I'm opening a debate. Since we don't have any debates, I'm closing the debate. I am giving a statement to the Air Traffic Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Austrian Federal Government. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Abstained? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government. We're going to move to the next item, item 5 of the Ad.5 agenda. Legislative questions and answers Who answers the word? Here you go. Mr. Herceg Mugdin.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u304	Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates, distinguished guests, I would take advantage of the opportunity to initiate several questions or suggest that I initiate them within this item of the agenda. 10 First of all, one perhaps big question that we should talk about here, first of all, publicly. I am aware that the European Social Charter obliges state legislation to fully respect the social rights of citizens of one country and their families who are working and working in other countries. Here I would especially like to focus on the right to provide health insurance for members of the family of employees in Slovenia and Croatia or the beneficiary of pensions from these countries. In fact, family members have the right to health insurance, such as insurance personnel, employee workers, pensioners, on the burden of funds per place of residence. In practice, it's different. Insurance companies do not exercise the right to ensure members of their families, in those countries, living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to some estimates, about 80,000 insurance workers, BiH citizens cannot achieve this right through the funds of Slovenia and Croatia, with at least two more people still being insured, members of the insurance families, out of health insurance rights. Politically-economic, harmful consequences for BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina citizens, because of non-recognition and non-payment of health insurance, there is no need to speak nor about the consequences of international and legal devaluation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's reputation. The institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina do not have the right to continue to keep this issue open, unresolved, which directly supports the economic interests of Slovenia and Croatia, as sides that should finance the said right in favour of the Bosnia and Herzegovina funds. I therefore demand and propose that, through the Council of Ministers of BiH, the resolution of this issue be initiated and the satisfaction of the insurance and insurance companies, as well as the funds of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Next, I would like to point out a problem that has recently been manifestly present in the interest of stopping the erosion of the reputation and credibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world, and due to the apparent presence, in the recent past, of hyperproduction of citizenship and passports to foreign citizens, without knowing how many foreign citizens with BiH passports are on the Interpol lists and who they are, by name, how many passports are issued to foreign citizens by entities, i.e., the Federation of BiH, by cantons. From which country are the people given Bosnian Herzegovina citizenship and how many are there? How many foreign citizens with a Bosnian herbic passport live in certain areas of BiH, or entities? And does Bosnia and Herzegovina have concluded bilateral relations with countries from which they are nationals with Bosnian Herzegovina passports and have these relations regulated issues of dual citizenship? So, in the context of this, I am indeed initiating an initiative to ask the BiH Steering Committee for the Implementation of Peace in BiH to take urgent and effective measures to discipline the authorities in issuing travel documents, i.e. passports and strict implementation of the Law on Citizenship, which we adopted, which was published in the “Official Messenger” No. 13/99 of 26 April 1992, as well as established obligations under the Decision establishing the Commission to examine the status of persons naturalised after 6 April 1992 and before the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, also 11 published in the "Official Messenger" No. 12/99 of 2.8.1999. Otherwise, BiH's citizens will, in the long run, remain in a blockade against the right to freedom of movement and be Europeans of the second or third order, and BiH could indeed become a sanitary corridor. I'd like to ask a question. Since we, I often go back to what we agreed, what we concluded at the 5th session of the People's House, held on 9 June, we made one decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, and there we said that within 30 days, a proposal for this text would be established. I am really asking the question, and as a man sitting in this House, I insist, and I ask that this issue finally be resolved for reasons that are more efficient and efficient in serving delegates in both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and these homes. And one, two, three tiny, purely administrative, technical interventions. Let's think about the documents we call the record and we regularly adopt them, should they really be with a sign of the record or a copy of the record because we have the original record in the stenogram. Secondly, I think it would be an instructional, since we're not a numerically bulky home, so that it wouldn't be bad in that copy of the record, and because of us sitting here, to record the presence, that is, the absence, etc. In the framework of the permanent agenda, I think that it would be good, experienced, from the canton assembly from which I come and the federal home, to allow delegates, when they get answers to the asked delegate questions, to be evident in terms of whether they are satisfied with the answer given or not, or have any suggestions, etc. And that the service of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at each meeting of the People's House makes one effort to try to deliver to the delegates of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, both at home, if nothing, at the session itself, short flash information on activities and colleges and working bodies, both the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary House of BiH. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u305	Thank you very much. Who's next in line? With no more debates, we end today's work, with part of the 9th session of the PSBiH People's House. You will be notified of the continuation of this session. Thank you very much. The sit-down ended at 12.20 p.m. END 12 We move to the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the 9th session, we were left with the Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum of BiH. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Did the commissions work? Do we have a commission report?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u307	Madam Presidents, distinguished fellow representatives, honored guests, under this law she met, shortly before the House session, the Commission on the issues of human rights and immigration, refugees and asylum and accepted four amendments in the same text as the House of Representatives and we believe that with these amendments we can accept this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u308	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we, in essence, accept the Law as it went to the House of Representatives. I think we should repeat the amendment here. Paragraph 2 is deleted in Article 1, and the new position reads: "in the sense of this law, all persons who do not have BiH citizenship are considered as foreigners, in accordance with Article 1, point 7. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on Citizenship of BiH." That's what's in line, with what we have and the conclusion that's very important. I think we should adopt it along with this law. That the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to, in accordance with Article 7(2); Article 10, Article 6 and Article 13. BiH's immigration and asylum law speeds up activity and enters the process of establishing a special regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH on the principles of equality of citizens and peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u309	Thank you very much. The word has a deputy minister, Mr. Rečica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u310	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to give a brief explanation. This law itself has been done very much with the help of representatives of the international 13 community, primarily the Council of Europe, the OHR and UNHCR offices. It is fully in line with the legislation that regulates this area in the European Union and is in line with conventions that BiH has also adopted, in particular the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees. A long-standing consensus, however, was reached by the BiH Council of Ministers in full consensus on the bill's proposal, so that the proposal that came to Parliament, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which was in fact in line with the BiH Council of Ministers. We had at the House of Representatives 10-11 amendments. However, the BiH Council of Ministers has concluded that these amendments are not accepted. However, in a debate held at the House of Representatives, it was partially accepted, with certain amendments, the amendment as read by Mr Tošić here and that is, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned. The BiH Council of Ministers accepted such an amendment and means the Law itself includes such an amendment as was read by Mr Tošić and what was accepted by the BiH House of Representatives. On behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, I ask this high house to accept this law in its form as proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers and adopted by the BiH House of Representatives. I remind you once again, this is one of BiH's key commitments on that list of admissions to the Council of Europe. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-10-06-0.u311	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word? If there are no more debates, I'm closing the debate. Please state the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum in the same text as the amendments adopted at the House of Representatives and proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers. Who's in? Thank you very much. Do you mind, abstentions? I agree that we unanimously adopted the BiH proposal for a law on immigration and asylum. Also, here was a proposal for a conclusion read by Mr Tošić. I'm opening a debate on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's answering for a word? If there are no debaters, please state the proposal for a conclusion in the text as Mr Tošić reads. Who's in? Thank you very much. I understand that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a conclusion in the form as read by Mr Tošić. We have completed our work on the agenda of the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and I am closing the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The seat is finished at 1215 hours.
