ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1022	Please take your seats. Allow me to welcome the Co-chair and Ministers present at the Council of Ministers, to the President of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Zovko, to welcome the international organisations present in Bosnia and Herzegovina and of course all MPs. I would like to inform you that there are a total of 39 MPs from 42 who count this House of Representatives from Federation 25's territory from Republika Srpska's territory 14 MPs are present. Since we have a quorum for rightful decision-making and work in this way and I am opening the 3rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. You got the agenda a dozen days ago as he was partially arranged at a college meeting, and as some events had ordered. At a consultation meeting held today before the beginning of this session, MPs' clubs made additional demands and I hold that since we have reached the agreement that they should be respected. Namely, the first item of the agenda remains and this is giving a solemn statement to the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as some sort of predicate on the reasons we will when the point is explained. At the request of the HDZ MPs' Club, the second point would be - the election of the deputy chairman of the Croatian people's order, which is in the context of the overall process of establishing this House of Representatives. The third point would be at the request of SDS and SRS and Syllabics MPs to put on the 3rd point – considering a point called – Bringing conclusions on the place and conditions of holding meetings of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then the next, 4th point would be the adoption of the minutes of the 1st and 2nd session. Then 5.. tačka – the election of a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina as indicated in the agenda. Further would be the confirmation of the appointment of the co-chair of the Council of Ministers and vice-presidents of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers, and then all the laws. The Law on State Anthem, the Law on Citizenship, the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on coat of arms, the Law on Telecommunications, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Immunity and the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina is being transferred to the next session to be held in the next seven days. This is also a request from the SDS and SRS and Sloge MPs' Club, and the request is explained by a letter from the Deputy High Representative, Mr Šumaher, calling on the working bodies to pre-preparate reports on the 2 items of the agenda, especially when it comes to laws, which is in line with standard parliamentary practice. Thus, it would end these points concerning the establishment of this home, so today it would elect both the chairman and vice-presidential working bodies. For the next seven days, the working bodies would consider the laws to prepare the reports and the next session would be scheduled in seven days. I do not see any particular reason to dissatisfaction with this request on condition that indeed, for the next seven days of the working committee and to carry out their commission and to hold the session of the next session. That would therefore have been a predicated college in a few modified compared to what you've got on the agenda. In short, all points in the constitution of the House of Representatives would be completed today, including the election of the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers, and the points concerning the Law would be held at the next session within seven days, after working bodies had considered and prepared a report on individual laws within those seven days. I have so much explanation about the agenda. I'd like you to have in mind the need to take a break at 12 o'clock if it takes up to 12 o'clock to try to ensure that this elected judge makes a statement, that you have that in mind, and now I'm putting the agenda proposal on a possible debate. Any suggestions, suggestions from what I put out. If there isn't, I'll call, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1023	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, first of all, I would like to conclude that the three club Members of the three political parties have no idea what you're proposing, because you started without us. We have no idea what your proposal is all about. Since we don't know what your proposal was, then we're making our proposal. So you see what fits because you'll be the one to follow our proposal. We stand at the point that today's agenda will be adopted in the form in which we are provided for this session that it will be complemented by the points that colleagues from other political parties and clubs will present yet, I will run for one of our proposals that we have divided here, I propose Mr. Genjac, without the great anxiety of the Spanish, immediately take a break so that people who practice it do what they want to do to go to jujum and come back here in good peace, and that in that time also use themselves for those who can agree further. Mr. Genajc's proposal in line with the Rules of Procedure is that the agenda should be adopted as it is, with point 4. The draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem puts it at point 3. That after this break you'll give after the juma has been done, you'll be working on points 1, 2 and 3. That, following points 1.2 and 3 of the solemn statement, the adoption of the minutes and the draft law on the national anthem, the Presidents of the Clubs of MPs with the College are to take a break and agree on the establishment of committees and delegations of the parliamentary assembly. DESCRIPTION of commissions immediately afterwards and that commissions are working on a break between point 3 and point 4 of this break, we consider that it can be a few days or to the extent to which we evaluate it. On Monday, if possible, we should continue with point 4 of the delegation's election and confirm the appointment of the co-chairs, and I don't take it all. We're also asking to be in point 5. Confirming the co-chairing of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers and of Bosnia and Herzegovina by expressing all dissatisfaction with the fact that, after 100 days, we do not have a Council of Ministers to submit under this point a report by the Council of Ministers, that, in accordance with the conclusion of last session, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme or operational programme of emergency resolution or operational programme of emergency resolution of obligations arising from the Madrid document, then move to the adoption of these other laws, which will be profiled in commissions and also, under the 9th point, add a point of the agenda – the adopted Law establishing common police forces to combat terrorism and inter-entity crime, and unauthorized drug trafficking. We have delivered this law in the procedure, we ask that it be placed under point 9 and that the competent committees have until Monday been profiled. I don't want to give the reason for this law now, I'm going to give it after the jumble break, because natural people have a need that no one should stop them, especially this parliament. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1024	Please, if I can accept suggestions from the MPs, I really ask you not to turn this into our usual sessions, the unequivocal item of the agenda is to give the statement of the newly elected Constitutional Court judge, since members of the Constitutional Court should travel to Banja Luka and be bound by certain deadlines, I invite you to accept that Judge of the Constitutional Court and MPs give a statement after we go to the jumble of those who practice it, and after the jumble we will discuss the agenda. I'm asking that this suggestion and I'm the same at the College, but I haven't come across much understanding and I don't see any other solution. Can we accept this way? Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1025	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the honourable fellow Members, I think that by caring for the principle that every time we make an exception, of course, I will make a statement about this proposal after the break I hope for the daily course and the reasons for the change in the agenda, I think there are many reasons to take a break, I suppose the Constitutional Court judge who will take the oath today in front of the MPs will perform or not perform his religious rite, and I see no reason to make exceptions and so much haste to separate Parliament's session in two parts, so I suggest, as well as Mr Zlatko, that we take a break, that after that break we enter into the agenda that we adopt. Whether it's going to be the first point or the second point, or the third point, it's irrelevant, it's going to be, I think that's the point and it's the most important thing and don't make any of this about religious ritual in such a way that, and I'm asking you to take a break so that people can, if it's at 12 o'clock, and that we don't deny them pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1026	Gentlemen, I am the representative of the BiH Constitutional Court, Mirko Zovko. The public debate over Mr. Izetbegović's demands continues tomorrow in Banja Luka, raised some issues regarding Mrs. Azra Omeragić's oaths, which was quite legally elected judge. We're traveling through OHR's organization, so it's a technical finesse, where I don't think there's any concern that Mrs. 4 Azra is now sworn in, because the judges, the foreigners and the others are expecting us, and therefore I ask you to accept this and that you have understanding and that the lady is now sworn in. I don't normally have the right to speak, but I got the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1027	Please accept this suggestion again with these arguments and let us finish this act. So are we in favour of pleading by raising our hands, that this act be carried out? It's a preliminary agenda, so we can consider it that way. Who is it to perform an act of declaration and to establish the agenda after the break? Twenty, most of the present are present, 39 and 20 voted in favour. Since it's a matter of practical work, I think we can approach that act. I call upon Mrs. Azra to approach the act of giving a solemn statement: I call upon the MPs to stand up and call upon Mrs Azra Omeragić, to repeat the word of the text with me and before the MPs to declare: (Davanaj's solemn statements) Congratulations and to wish for successful work. I'm taking a break now, and we're starting work at 2:00. [[Applause]] At 13 o'clock, the MPs' clubs will have meetings, and at 14 o'clock, the work will continue. Time out from 12 to 16 hours. [[After break]] I ask the MPs to take their seats. With all due apologies for this break that lasted longer than anticipated, we are staying with the work of this session. The reason for the break that has lasted longer than has been announced and the agreement on the agenda is foreseen, we have the request of the MPs SDS, SRS list and part of the MPs of the Sloga to discuss the conditions and place of meetings of the House of Representatives before these other birds that are on the agenda. The consultations were held in an effort to find a solution with respect to all relevant decisions and constitutional provisions concerning the seat of the House of Representatives and the effort to find a compromise solution. How much we have been able to see this, mostly for the word I have reported one MP, Deretić and Špirić, and after Deretić, the deputy High Representative, Ambassador Šumaher, who will propose one possible solution for further work. So Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1029	Dear Mr President, I am here in front of the Serbian MPs' Club from Republika Srpska in the Representative's Council 5 to refer to the decision to give a solemn statement by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was carried out 12 hours ago, in an absolutely inappropriate way, in a way that is completely deviating from the rules laid down in the provisional Rules of Procedure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Representative Council, which I have before me. In that sense, I'll just read one explanation here. In the process of setting the agenda for the 3rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it is contrary to the provisions of the Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the Representative Council of Article 7. The item on the first item of the agenda, giving a solemn statement to the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was carried out in a way that has not been established by the Rules of Procedure. It has been asked to vote on this item of the agenda as preliminary. In that surrogate, legal and parliamentary practices have been made formal legal mistakes. 1. The number of MPs present in the hall was not determined immediately before the vote. 2. 20 of the MPs present voted for the proposal to separate this item from the agenda. 3. The vote was not held until the end of the statement only “for” and the number of votes “against” and “abstained”. 4. Neither the two-stage voting procedure as set out in Article 7 has been implemented. Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Representative Council. Based on what has been said to the MPs of the SDS list MPs, the Serbian Radical Party and the Slog Coalition, and the MPs of the Radical Party of Republika Srpska, the formal statement of the candidate for the Constitutional Court of BiH is not given in accordance with the established procedure, and we as such are absolutely contesting, i.e. it is not valid for us, and as such a sworn oath cannot produce any legal facts. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdđija, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1031	... Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, gentlemen of the chairman, do not deny Mr. Deretić this, not entering at all the content of the remarks he made, I would like to remind and ask that this be recorded. His presentation has begun, you can check in the stenogram, unfortunately on behalf of the Serbian MPs' Club, closed quote. Please, for one, this is not the home of the people, under two, sitting here political parties, under three here sitting people with their name and last name and under four while SDP MPs sit in this House none of you have the right to speak exclusively on behalf of any people. The SDP MPs who are both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat are sitting here and we have no intention of discussing with anyone here who is the bigger one, history and time will show it. Please, if it's a lapus, I'd like it to be corrected and those laps still don't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1032	Thank you. Mr. Deretić. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1033	I thank you for allowing me to do this double. Look, I'm absolutely not confused and in that sense, and in that sense, I don't need to apologize specifically. I said and I think as I said, so the Serbian MPs' club, there are 11 of us, so I'm not confused, and I'm authorized in the end, what I literally presented here to read, and so I pleaded. It is my absolute right, and Mr Lagumdžija, I would suggest that you know that there are 14 MPs coming from the RS Council of Representatives, of these 14 MPs and three MPs who absolutely do not dispute the truth of other nationalities and come from other peoples. So, I'm just saying, those people who are behind this kind of announcement. I don't think this is about any lapus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1034	Mr. Spahić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1035	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, the guests, I would like to say that I thought that last time we had clarified the concepts of working in the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives and that I had summed up that if it went to a magnetogram, it was the basis for the serious work of the MPs who received trust from BiH citizens in different election units. As far as I can see the performance that we just heard from Mr. Deretić, especially this replica cancels our past work, I think it's the second session, the first one was with the sequel, so the second session and brings us back to the beginning. I do not know that in this House of Representatives, the presence of a club of Serbian MPs from the RS does not exist. Such a club has not been established and cannot be derived from or derived from anything, if such a club exists, then you would actually establish a new principle of action of the House of Representatives and deny the spirit and text of the Constitution of BiH to which you are calling. Since this does not exist, it cannot be addressed to the public on behalf of the non-existent categories, which is the political public, equally represented in the political relations of the upper and lower homes, in the tradition of the constitution of such a parliament as this. I would like to enter into the content of the decision and the questions that you have asked is the principle of which of the positions that speak in this House, I would not like to repeat my discussion from last session, I wish that today we had one serious and stable proposal of the Rules of Procedure, and that the working bodies as Mr Lagumdžija and I have proposed to establish and to bring in some way the frameworks of our work. Otherwise, we will be completely lost and we will speak with achievements that are simply not possible as the subject of the debate. When no position is possible, it is not possible to act within such a position in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1036	Thank you. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1037	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have, of course, one deep disappointment in how to prepare work and run the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH representative council, and I think that if there is anything left of the MPs here that we will think deeply about launching the initiative of the chairman or team of the chairman who has not yet been established until the end, for all that is happening to us in the public view of BiH. I am saying that for the reasons that individuals have or a strong party dril, and those who drag the ends of 7 are far beyond this Parliament that individuals have a strong grill of representatives of the international community and I think that instead of spending this time to agree on the agenda some have taken advantage of the chance to further diverge us, to fight us and that we are close not to adopt the agenda, unless we accept such a powerfully agreed arm of a replacement of the High Representative. I deeply disagree with this way of working this Parliament, I have come to work seriously in this Parliament. Today's meeting for MP Nikol Špirić is over, I speak to the citizens of BiH, when the gentlemen of you who are negotiating the agenda get serious, they take away the impressions that are outside of us who are deciding here I am ready to come to every National Assembly meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much, this session is over for me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1038	Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1039	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I would also urge that our next sessions be organised in a far more high-quality manner. I think it's a little to whom what's clearly been done during this one-day break. As very often, it happens too often to our chairman that he doesn't know what he's doing now, either we're determining the agenda or we're discussing the agenda points or we're re-showing all the manifestations of the alleged spray, Croatian, bisque or I don't know what kind of belongings or party belongings. There's an objective problem that we haven't even used today's break to build working bodies. There is an objective problem, and this is a problem that goes directly to the responsibility of the two-thirds organised leadership of our home, which we as representatives, the presidents of the club parties today have not sat down at all to try to agree on how to organise today's session work. And there's a disastrously bad start to the assembly. The gentleman is quite right about the aspect of the vote. It was a direction from the vote, an illegal vote, not counted, not enough, but listen to the next one, please. Avdo, I can...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1040	Please, no interruptions. AVDO
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1041	: It wasn't any legal decision that was made. It was just... [[from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1042	A man who has sat in a one-party parliament for 10 years, and another 10 in this multiparty, should at least learn the basic assumption that if he wants to speak, answer the word and speak. I was just about to say next. We should never have discussed whether the Constitutional Court judge should take an oath or not. Allow me a little lesson. The assembly should have started so, Mr. Genjac, to say: ladies and gentlemen of the chairmanship, before crossing the agenda, we have one solemn opportunity, an obligation and an honor to swear before us a member of the Constitutional Court, etc. 8 I would ask you, from the CD coalition, to take the responsibility of the largest party in the organisation of this Parliament, what you most often mention is what you, Mr. Slijadžić, Bosnia and Herzegovina, crashes here today through a one-day break. Here, this is a compromise of BiH as a parliamentary state and a compromise of all of us sitting here. I am willing to participate further in the work, unlike the unsuspecting MP who just came out, but I would really ask you two to try to get a third right now, because it is not the legitimacy of this leadership that only the two of you are sitting down, and by that you try to yourself, so explain to us what we are doing, whether we are determining the daily word, so my Bog, there is a democratic procedure that can do everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1043	Thank you very much. The replica, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1044	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you, I feel really uncomfortable. I feel uncomfortable about all this nausea that's going on here today, without having to, and to tell Mr. Šumaher that there's a lot of problems that I'm going to be talking about, I just want to replicate to a gentleman who says he doesn't know what's going on, you really don't know what's going on. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we agreed on the agenda. That's the agenda you got. As far as I know, the gentleman has not expressed any disdain, but simply wanted to be complemented, which is a procedure that we must respect to supplement the amendment by the psolanics. However, I received a letter from Mr. Šumaher saying: "Both homes have chosen members of the working bodies, but the presidents of the working bodies have not yet been elected" – exactly. “That is why I would like to ask you to call, in the capacity of the chairman, the meetings of the working bodies responsible for the issues on the agenda of the upcoming session. In line with the standard parliamentary practice, it is necessary that the competent working bodies prepare reports on each item of the agenda for the home to which the body is being set." Gentlemen I came here on two occasions yesterday, if these from the administration wanted to confirm, sit and wait I had the opportunity to speak with the distinguished Mrs Ana, but there was no man who had talked earlier, we could not find Mr Genjac, I came earlier to do so this morning, I could not do anything. No problem, you vote, and if you have to get me out of here, there's no problem, you won't hurt me much. I'm just saying this is what I'm saying. Further in line with that, respectfully and greatly respecting what Mr. Šumaher wrote I know that this agenda can't look like that, but I didn't have the opportunity to change that. I have a chance to react when the agenda comes here, Mr. Tokić, and I will react to the agenda. This isn't an excuse this is simply a fact, if anyone can challenge him I'd like to challenge him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1045	Thank you. As far as I can tell, there are no reports. Because some things are not clear just to explain. It's extremely difficult to work here and it's quite understandable that impression if we have a party representative here who wants to show that this can't work and if we have party representatives who want to show that Koalcijia CD is irresponsible to them or wants to show something else. Of course, all this is difficult to connect, but in 9 BiH, the forces that have gained voter confidence are what they are. The MPs have been elected in this House, and we must lead this process and, with much patience and understanding, we must do what is expected of us. Of course, I'd be far happier if this was all far easier and more efficient, but the reality is that it is. We've established the agenda 12 days ago, sent the calls in time. Like this time, we have never prepared a session more thoroughly, sent the necessary materials, the laws have long been sent to those on today's agenda and, of course, there is nothing slow about it. But there is a dispute that we are the day ahead of the session an ultimate request to change the agenda, that before all the issues that will be settled on the agenda, the issue of where to meet the House of Representatives. The meeting of the House of Representatives was decided both in Luxembourg and in Bon and Madrid and in the Presidency and so on. But we do have a request to re-demand it. It is a request that I understand as a request for the work of the MPs, but I also understand that part of the MPs cannot accept it, absolutely cannot accept that something that has been resolved and adopted recently is being discussed, in the light of what has been agreed. And that's where the problems started. So we're here on the agenda, we're discussing the agenda. Since the condition was to discuss before any point the meeting of the House of Representatives, we are trying to find a compromise to clarify things clearly enough, where the House of Representatives is sitting to interfere with the session if there are to be averted, but that those issues needed to be resolved. For me, of course, the goal is to do the job here as much as possible, and so I will suffer much more ground and unfounded insults than they are said. For some, the goal is to give political speeches and to show or at the expense of their party that the political point wins in this opportunity, and I understand that. I really want to do some work, and I'm gonna be patient and I'm gonna insist on doing the job. Once again, the agenda is determined. The fact that they came after the alignment of the agenda came about the changes. Since a letter from the Deputy High Representative of Mr Šumaher has been called for, where he considers it necessary for the working bodies to consider each law and then put it on the agenda, it is a legitimate requirement of a group of MPs that I understand. It is legitimate, of course, to seek flexibility and to do as much as possible. We're trying to work it out. Because here in this House there are 42 MPs from 14 parties, 14 legitimate interests represent, MPs representing the interests of their parties. I beg your patience and ask you to call things the real names. As for the swearing procedure, I appealed and prayed for it to be a preliminary, solemn act, to take an oath. I didn't get the consent of most RS MPs. Without their consent, it cannot be done, I cannot ignore the MPs' position as the Rules of Procedure have prescribed. durgi is that nowhere is it prescribed that the Constitutional Court judge must make a statement before the House of Representatives. The judges so far have only signed a statement and, of course, by respecting the remarks, the Constitutional Court will finally give its word on the issue. But I think that all here who represent both citizens and peoples should be of great interest to us that the Constitutional Court is complete and that all the peoples and all the citizens are represented in the Constitutional Court. It was my motive for having scheduled the session today, because the date from the new year to today could not agree to an appointment for the famous reasons of holidays, religious holidays, etc. I'm still ready for patience, ready for arrangements, talking about the agenda, and I'd like to ask Mr. Šumaher, since he's called earlier from these MPs who are in the meantime, since he announced he's going to make an offer to take his word out.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1046	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word, Your Honor, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. I must say, I have indeed decided with great hesitation to take my word for it in this home. But I think what we are experiencing here and seeing is a return to the darkest times in the darkest times of parliamentary paralysis. This is an important moment for Parliament and for each individual representative at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. And allow me, please, to dare and remind you of the personal responsibility of each and every one of you. As one advocate rightly pointed out here, you were chosen on individual grounds, not as members of clubs. People, TV viewers today want to see if you care about these people, whether you care about your electoral body to those vital issues for this country or if you simply lose yourself as we have seen before in a party discussion. We've already lost a lot of time and I really don't find it hard to agree with the vice president that maybe the points that are on the agenda aren't prepared the way they were supposed to be, but I have to point out to Mr. Banjac that it was never a case in the past. And after the election, we all expected that for the first time we would have the opportunity to continue the normal parliamentary work. Ladies and gentlemen, please remember Madrid, therefore, the conference where all your political leaders were present. Almost the whole world then urged you to personally accept your responsibility, the responsibility given to you by your electoral body. We don't want to be a protectorate, and I really don't have the slightest interest in meddling in your affairs, but in order to make at least some decisions today, I would like to propose the next compromise. The first item of the agenda should be a confirmation of the Presidency's decision to confirm the two co-chairs of the Council of Ministers. So this is not a legal issue that requires preparation by the working committees, all the formalities concerning this decision are fulfilled. The three presidents unanimously proposed their candidates, and now it's your turn to make a decision, and the world expects this country to have a government three months after the election. So, please, the first thing you need to make a decision today should be to support that recommendation given by the Presidency. As a long story on the agenda, I would like to mention the recent debates mentioned earlier by representatives from the RS, and these discussions, or debates, concern the headquarters. I would quite clearly like to say that the permanent headquarters of all joint institutions is this building at the Marin Court. And ladies and gentlemen, if you'll allow me to remind you this is not something the international community has decided, it's a decision made by the Presidency in its first session. So to continue with these vital issues that are ahead of us, there's no need for us to retrace this file. However, I fully agree with all the MPs in this House, it is that the time has come for adequate working conditions, which I must say, not even in Lukavica, to be met in this building. So, as a second point for the sitting, I would suggest that Parliament decide that the responsible working bodies, or the commission of both homes, will, will, therefore, make sure that these working bodies are created in this building at Mary's court without any further delay, and as a third point on the agenda, I think that we should agree on the date of holding the next session, agree or decide on the agenda for this session, and I would be more than happy if those requirements that I have mentioned in my letter to the chairman and Mr. Vice-President were to be met before the sitting itself were met, in order to prepare it. I urge you not to leave this session today without making a decision on one item of the agenda that has no doubt. The presidency has proposed candidates for the co-chair, the College has accepted the item as a agenda item and there is no need for any further discussion by parliament now only to be voted on. And I ask you to hold on to your responsibilities, because they are in the end and for the sake of which you are chosen in this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1047	I thank Mr. Šumaher. Replica Mr. Banjac, then Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1048	I am honored to be able to speak after Mr. Šumaher and to inform him of several important things he is not obviously familiar with. 5.01. in this building I have come to agree on the organisation of the work of this Parliament, because I have seen that there are no minimum conditions to be done here. On that agreement was Mr Genjac, Mr Mikić, me, the workers here, Mr Hadžović Vedran, Emira Češljar and Rajka Stanišić. We made a deal, and I suggested that we settle the issue of the Secretariat's organization so that we could work on the sources, because the materials that people were talking about here today were given two days ago. I further suggested that work in the Assembly be systematised so that adequate administrative assistance could be given to the work of this body. The next thing I suggested, it is that we are working on a permanent Rules of Procedure and the next to be projected by the Budget for the work of this Parliament, because it will be too late when the Council of Ministers sends us in advance that they know more about what we need than we do. It's agreed to go straight to the realization and let me tell you we sent Mrs. One to work here who told me after a few days she was coming that no one was giving her any work. When I came to the esteemed Mr. Šumaher and asked where I should go in, it was locked up everywhere, and then they opened up a cold room that had no chairs or anything, and I thought we were getting there, and that's how it is. I wasn't mad afterwards, but I asked to know in the future when I was coming where I needed to come and that I could work properly. I came yesterday, dear sir, found a locked door, no one inside, and when I opened the room that was assigned to me, there was no chair in it. Is that all a coincidence, Your Honor? I think there must be some consideration about the work of this Parliament and I think that, in accordance with the recommendations of the High Representative, something needs to be done. Please, you know that at the first session, we came to a confusion where the MPs from the RS were waiting, so that Dad went to a room where there were no chairs or tables, so that we ended up doing it and we thought it was a passing situation. Is everything a coincidence? I wish it were. I'd be happy to be convinced that it's all a coincidence. And given that the esteemed sir here is not created the following assumptions legally, and you promised in Mr. Šumaher's letter, it says, "I'm sorry, Vestendorpa, that there should be legal assumptions that can be done here, that there should be organisational assumptions that I've been talking about for a little while, and I wanted to take part in them, and then to create technical assumptions, and I wanted 12 of them to be created and created, they should ultimately create safe assumptions that could work. Dear Sir, nothing has been done so far, none of these assumptions have been fulfilled until the end, let it be less, let it be less. So nothing's an accident. When the agenda point is proposed, I do not understand why the current Council of Ministers is so easily determined to leave the Council of Ministers so easily, so easily as to leave the current co-chair, that they do not have a chance to submit here a report on their work and a report that before that, the committee in charge will consider giving an opinion on this work report, and only then to form new ones. Is that really what he wants, if it wasn't a month ago, and it wasn't my fault, or I don't know Mr. Genjac, or I don't know whose fault. Can't we wait another seven days for these people to file a report in front of this tall house? Let's hear what they say, what they did, and how they did, and choose other respectful proposals from the authorities, which means members of our presidency. I believe that this is the way to go, that this is the way to respect this high home, because it is the only way we can achieve something of quality. If we're gonna rush that with something, I can ask you open now. What is it about you who say that we individual MPs have called together a group of MPs and neither did the others? If you can answer that question, answer me with my best intention now, why don't you stick to what you just said? Furthermore, there is no intention of obstructing the work of this high house, but also the 11 Srbin unanimously ask that, until they make assumptions, they hold sessions in that ratio as it was before, and that's two to one. The day the assumptions were made, and the rhyming of everything that I had not obstructed but helped to create them, I showed in part, so I wanted to show in part that there was something to be done and I think I came across the understanding of Mr Genjac and Mr. Mikić and that it was a shame that Mr. Tokić said that we still don't have a third. Why is that? Is that supposed to blame the people sitting here? Well, the easiest thing to do is to blame us, gentlemen. But don't let the gentlemen get along here instead of discussing important matters. I was thinking today that I would suggest something else to build up today at last the Assembly, and immediately today we schedule the next session as soon as possible, get ready for that session and hold that session. How can I be over the line now, for me, the Assembly, Your Honor, sir, has not been established. Why? There is no deputy president, no working body has been established, and four for international relations have not even received their membership. And we will now go to the first point of someone who can wait for quality preparation, so that those who leave with dignity leave, and those who come with dignity. I, sir, can congratulate in this work, if it will be respected by the High Representative, and I want to respect it. If what you wrote will be respected, and I want to respect it. Please let me respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1049	Thank you. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1050	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, 13 I am realizing that we are discussing the agenda wanted on behalf of the Social Democrats Club to propose an addition to this agenda, and whether this point will be put on the agenda and discussed today or in the follow-up of this session that will take place in the next period, it is of little importance to us, but it is important to warn that the Social Democrats' Club has submitted the proposal for a bill in the Council of Ministers, referred it to the parliamentary procedure before the previous meeting of this House, that this bill treats the overall organisation of the Council of Ministers in a slightly different way and that it would be quite logical that the point is considered before 5th. Agenda points. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1051	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can answer for the agenda? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1052	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow Members and MPs, using their right to Rules of Procedure Article 6(4) as regards the agenda, since the debate has been opened in determining the agenda, I ask that the session of what will be today or this which will be another day or someone else that will come after this which we agree on is being run for next item of the agenda. In fact, we are in the procedure envisaged by the Rules of Procedure to deliver the proposal for a law establishing a common police force to combat the terrorism of inter-entity crime and an unauthorized drug dealer. I also draw attention to the fact that the proposal for this law is based on Article 8(2) of our Rules of Procedure. In fact, legal and any other basis for it I will say something later, but the real basis is what Mr. Šumaher was saying when he called us and reminded us of our personal responsibility. My desire is to have what Mr. Chairman has asked the vice president to leave with dignity, and to come with dignity, it is my wish. Unfortunately, I don't think these dignitaries will leave, nor will the new one come with dignity, but that will show the sources. In any case, I ask you, therefore, to take the personal responsibility for the state of the country, as someone has already said that the procedure is also subject to an urgent procedure to adopt this law defining the constitution of the common police forces, which will stop what is now happening throughout BiH in both entities where people without cause or out of ordinary grammar and small money are killed and kept by other criminals in other people's territory to stop the killing of taxi drivers, car theft, drug smuggling, the introduction of prostitution to small doors or large in this country, and simply that we don't have things that are probably more obvious in this country where there are people in this country who are able to kill them all together in a situation where we kill their child one and the other, so their family and themselves. In other words, I ask you not to refer to me for any rules of procedure, constitutional such as this, or any such basis. If you want to get into that plane, we can talk about that level. For what I'm saying, there's a legal basis, there's material made of leading experts that the SDP could gather, and what's most important is the need, the need to end crime the most brutal thing that's happening while we're doing this. We made a decision, we made it, life won't stop, because we decided it. Life will go its course. I ask you once again to work on the agenda to get this law on the agenda. I am also calling on you and asking you, Mr. 14, to chair you so that you will not now enter a field that creates further delusions and confusions, I ask you to take on this passage of mine, so in accordance with Article 6(4). The Rules of Procedure shall hold a vote in accordance with Article 7(3). For your information, point 7 of point 3 is that when you vote, you call all one man by his name and last name and raise your hand. Let's see who's here, who's here so we can start looking who people look into the eyes and start stopping crime? Every day of postponing this item of the agenda, meaning someone's head is smaller in this country, meaning some more robbery, and I don't want to pick up what's not. I therefore ask you to be offered an explanation by Mr. Šumaher and remind you of a personal responsibility not to extend the darkest times of parliamentaryism that he has honored us at the darkest times of the whole country, when it is already dark here not necessarily in the country. And finally, Mr. Genjac, as chairman, I ask you to include in the agenda the item of the agenda that, which we have concluded last time, the minutes of 2nd session of point 2 when we adopt the minutes, it will become legal, but the reality is that we will be placed in line with this item of the agenda under which the Council of Ministers will frame our work report and propose operational implementation of the Madrid documents. I remind you once again that it would not be a mistake to insist that the vote be held in accordance with the business elements I have drawn your attention to. I also visit, once again, I call on the Council of Ministers to prepare for the next session a proposal for customs legislation, to form a joint customs service that will stand at the border as customs, because I asked you to do so for the next session, and I would like to inform Parliament that right now, I am initiating the procedure to set the agenda for the first next parliament, unless the Council of Ministers comes with that law, we will come with that law. We'll come with that law, because every day there's no such law and no such service, so somewhere around $3 million on optimistic estimates. By pessimistic, it's much more. That means I don't say what I don't. Please. You, too. Mr President, that the Council of Ministers declare whether this law has been prepared for the next session of Parliament - unless our relevant advice and expert teams deliver it for the next session in order to put it on the agenda. I thank you, fellow Genjac. I remind you one more time, I'd like an MP's statement on everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1053	As far as I can see, there are no more discussions on the agenda between the MPs. We're in front of a very difficult commitment and delicate, to try these proposals that have been made -- kind of systematicize -- sum up. Given that Ambassador Šumaher's proposal contains the possibility of compromises and contains several earlier proposals, because it proposes to resolve these three issues, and for the next session to set the agenda, I think that approaches to setting the agenda for the next session, I think it contains several proposals, and I will first put that proposal to the vote, with the following meaning: Of course, the suggestion about the way, allows - but I am trying to find the most practical solution. Therefore, the proposal would mean that the first item of the agenda would be - a confirmation of the appointment of the chairman, vice-president of the Council of Ministers. The second point would be to make 15 decisions to assign competent working committees to prepare conditions for the functional and work of the House of Representatives. So, to create the conditions necessary for the work of the House of Representatives and the Third Point - Establishing the date and agenda of the next session. When setting the date and then the agenda of the next session, it would put all proposals on the agenda to the vote. So, that's Ambassador Šumaher's suggestion that, because it contains several proposals, it's assembling and that's why I put it out. This is Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1054	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, I must at first say that, with all due respect to the Deputy High Representative, for one Assembly, it is not appropriate for him to define our agenda. And that's why I really can't accept the proposal to get away with it first. We have a proposed agenda and we can talk about these points to see what it is that we can adopt and absorb today, and what it is we have to leave behind for the next time. The proposal for a discussion of the Assembly’s headquarters, or a proposal for a agenda item, has arisen and arises from the minutes on the work of the previous Assembly, when it comes to this. And apparently, some things are not respected or respected. Accordingly, there was an initiative for the Assembly to make a decision on the seat of the Assembly, on working conditions and on the right frameworks of work in that seat. This is what Parliament Club Sloga is also asking to enter into the first item of the agenda or to consider the minutes and suggestions - so we also respect the decisions of some conferences of international and previous and present and we respect the decisions and members of the Bureau, but I remind you that according to the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly decides on its seat. And that is why we suggest that for the next session, the committees of both councils are to be in charge - so this and the Council of People, in coordination with the Parliament's Coordination Body, to prepare the Proposal for a decision, to prepare the preparation and legal frameworks and the Decision, with the request and office of the High Representative that those promises that they made, which some Ministerial Council told me existed in the agreements, that there were also dogs, were available and that all of this would be one basis on which one such decision would be prepared at the beginning of next week, which we will consider in the next Assembly. I ask that you have so much understanding and that, first of all, we give ourselves the meaning that we have and who we need to preserve. Secondly, we received a letter from the Office of the High Representative suggesting that we do not now discuss some laws because the relevant assembly committees have not been established and not all the necessary procedures have passed. In that sense, I cannot accept initiatives for new laws, especially that they are included in the agenda, until these commissions are established and until we create conditions for each law to go through a normal legal procedure. I don't think we need to define the agenda for the next assembly today. That's not common. Obviously, we're going to have enough of these agenda points planned for today. We will also have, if we vote on the new co-chairing 16 ministerial councils, the Council of Ministers - to discuss - and probably, since reports are not prepared for today, we will then ask for reports and a new programme. So these are all elements that we will have to discuss in the next Assembly and we need to accept one practice to prepare the agenda for the Assembly for two sessions. That is why my proposal would be to discuss first, that the Assembly should decide that its committee should make a proposal to the next Assembly, that the Bureau should then be asked to complete itself. It is indeed inappropriate that we do not have a third, or second co-chair, and we propose that votes be voted on by the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers and that this assembly be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1055	Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1056	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I insist on the agenda is really today after all this time we're just trying to get to the agenda and, as I understand it, point 5. - is our confirmation of the chairman, chairman of the Council of Ministers. This point would be below 1. But it is not just a formal nature, as it is said here, it is not only, with all our respects to the proposal of members of the Bureau, our confirmation, because we have received and we have sought either at the first or second session - it has been in the minutes - the report on the work of the Council of Ministers for the period since they were appointed and until the end of the term of office and we have received the Report from 1.1.1997-30.10.1998 and it would not be good to today confirm some who will remain or continue to co-chair - chair or chair, and that perhaps at some next session we reject this report, declare that they did not work well, that we are not satisfied, that many laws have not been passed in the framework of the state as it Dejton regulated, that the Council of Ministers did not do their job. I do not prejudge that this will be so, because a lot has been done and is seen from this report, but I suggest that, before we give confirmation, we put this report on review, we adopt it, and then we confirm or do not confirm the Bureau's proposals for leading people in the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1057	Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1058	The esteemed presidents, the esteemed representatives, the guests, I came out for one reason only to point out here - to confirm that the HDZ Club in preparation for this session has requested that, as the rights or the other, after taking the oath, which has already been passed, a point be placed - the election of the co-chair of the Croatian people's order. That's what Mr. Genjac said at the beginning of this session. However, many did not seem to understand this well, and since other parties are constantly being held in this entire discussion today, I think the two three of them have already mentioned, that the third co-chair should be elected, so that it is not understood that the HDZ Club did not take care of it, I just wanted to point out that we are staying with our proposal that this item of the agenda be classified as the right to a session that will take place in maybe seven days or as we already agree here. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1059	Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1060	Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw attention to two things. Firstly, in the context of the debate on the agenda, we felt that we would cross over, at least I had a feeling, about what our decisions were at first and second session of the House of Representatives, and it was about the democratic procedure regulated by the only document in force, except for the Constitution, for this Parliament - that is the Permanent Rules of Procedure on the work of this Assembly. Since it's based on one impromptu Rules of Procedure, which is possible for us to continue to work for a few more years, it seems -- so we constantly fall into a trap to talk about things that should have an ongoing normal procedure. At the time the Council of Ministers delivered the report on its work, I received it in time, even parts were published, as far as I know, in public. Therefore, they are subject to public criticism and it was quite normal for the chairman to deliver in the procedure - logically and responsibility to his own composition that report as one document that we could have had on the agenda for almost a month. So, if there was a democratic procedure, it would be the responsibility of the chairman or team of the Kolegijum to give us an insight into the regular procedure officially, on the agenda, to establish a report on the work of the Council of Ministers. We did not get this in the official procedure and there is no agenda now and this is being discussed in the context of the proposal to verify today's proposal by the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the election of two co-chairs and vice presidents. In the meantime, we are caught up with another association that we, even if today, could manage to realise this individual responsibility as MPs -- we have quite clearly indicated in our public opinion that it is a single arrangement that is open for the next three months. The arrangements between Bosnia and Herzegovina's political summit, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and Mr Karlos Vestendorp, that the reconstruction of this Council will take place in accordance with the request of the Madrid Conference and with the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the next three months and that we will return to the discussion on the structure of this Council. In this regard, we do not have two basic elements to decide on, we do not have the basic programme of economic and social policy that we spoke about last time and not only the implementation of the Madrid Declaration, but the economic and social policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which the Council of Ministers should submit after more than four months of the elections, in line with those who have provided the parliamentary majority and can have authority and responsibility for it. Now I'd like to draw the team's attention to one absurdity. While we do not have these two basic documents on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Madrid Conference in the Operational Plan and the Peace Implementation Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina suggests that by September, two entities make a strategy - watch out - to fight poverty, including protection of endangered categories of society and also reform of pension and health insurance. So, the state that is in full transition and the state that is in one period that is very dramatic for these categories of population is not available from its government, because it is not yet established by the government on the basis of election results, the possibility of hearing an economic and social policy programme, and the Madrid Conference recommends that the Council that only in September will we establish an entity strategy on what actually concerns the good half of Bosnia and Herzegovina's population, if not more. 18 So, these two things to compromise - we have before the world a single ID as a Parliament that does not have its own programme, does not have its own Rules of Procedure and does not have its own government. This government is at the service. So, there should be no mystification from it, it should work on the basis of what is the political, economic and social interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we are currently representing. We must give this government a chance as she gave the report and chair of the College to put her program on the agenda. I would therefore suggest the following: I think it is impossible to refer to Mr Šumaher's letter, which is present at the session, that it is necessary to provide a hearing by procedure based on commissions, bodies, etc. when we're actually not really establishing these working bodies. On what basis and who will schedule the session, let's say those ten working bodies in seven days -- from Monday to Thursday and Friday -- that would study these documents and stand behind those documents in the procedure that lies before the Rules of Procedure. So I would suggest two things: - first, that we adopt the record at last and start working. So, log 1st and 2nd sessions. - Second, let's give it a chance, because of this situation that we are in, that the Council of Ministers submits a report and the Work Programme at the next session, along with all these contradictions that we have in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political reality, and that we create the foundations for hard work, that Parliament has to ask someone - of the Council of Ministers for serious work. - Third, I would suggest that we adopt decisions concerning the constitution of parliamentary bodies, meaning working groups and our bodies that are to be established in relation to the Presidency of Parliament in the International Community, because it would be unserious, too, as we do not have the Council of Ministers that we do not have representatives in the International Institutions in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is present. So, to organize ourselves from the inside, to accept Mrs. Havel's proposal to provide, of course, the completion of our college at the next session. So, to work operationally, to accept the record, to verify the Council, to commit it to the report and to the Work Programme and to establish working bodies that will be able to make these laws available, which are in the procedure to be verified. I wanted to propose today only one item of the agenda to this Parliament, before all these points, which is to ensure that this Parliament provides the minimum of goodwill, which I spoke of last time, regardless of how someone will understand it, which is that we accept the laws we have as Westorp laws as our laws, because it is a fundamental principle of goodwill that we will take responsibility for what we are citizens - from citizenship to telecommunications. Of course, given this proposal that we missed last time, which is that we have working bodies sessions, I would suggest that all of this together, these new laws, we have opportunities even when we have working bodies. So I ask you to let us decide whether we will adopt the minutes tonight and will we verify this Council tonight and finally establish the working bodies of our Parliament? This is neither for me to discuss the seat nor the information and tasks, unless we have established which president, who is the Vice-President of the Administrative Commission, etc. Not to mention the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission. So there's no serious business for the next seven days or 15 days. If there is no choice of the Council of Ministers and no working bodies today and our Presidency in the Council of Europe, is it serious that the Council of Europe calls us to membership, and we cannot verify the government, we cannot verify 19, let's say, the delegation to the Council of Europe. For me, it's a really bad signal for the Council of Europe. I don't think we can agree to that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1061	Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1062	I, first of all, apologize. I can see that the relevant facts will not be taken into account and I ask someone who can answer the following question: Who here, with what purpose and why is he challenging the constitution of the Parliament in which we are present? Please, it is not clear to me that Parliament has not been established for me because one co-chairman is missing, the commissions are missing, the working bodies are missing, and then he wants to decide before that what is far more important than its only constitution. Shall we have someone dispute those decisions afterwards? We can do it today if we want to, but obviously we won't, and please -- you're making me say I can't work here until I understand why the constitution of Parliament is being obstructed. That's why, if that wasn't the case, I don't like to talk without suggesting. I propose the following agenda: Number one, adoption of the minutes from 1st and 2nd session. I propose that the choice be made, the conclusion of the venues and the conditions of holding sessions, the venues and the conditions that we will define the conclusion, we will discuss that. Furthermore, let's see the essentials, the choice of delegations, and the four. The European Security and Co-operation Organisation, the Central European Initiative, the Interpalamentary Union, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, then I propose to put an end to the agenda – the organisation of the work of the temporary secretariat of this Council because we have nothing to do with us gentlemen and the election of the Secretary-General and two secretaries of the Council, for the council of the people and one for the council. If a lawyer were to sit here, there would be far less trouble with the legal procedure. It would be someone who would suggest to us here what is not possible. And every Parliament has a lawyer present as a consultant and that we end this today. Don't make me take part in the work, vote or not vote for someone who's already co-chairing or minister without hearing his report on the work that we can't even say about him whether we can confirm this man or not. In the end they also earned those who went away to hear them go away, and what they inherited. There's something I'd like to do in a hurry. I am against putting an end to the appointment agenda, but I propose it for the next 7 days when the commission will consider the report, deliver the report to the MPs. What do you want to put in today's report that I haven't seen and read and that I'm discussing and that I say yes after that, or I'm not for the man who's proposed. It's not my idea to embarrass myself like that. Please state in the prescribed procedure on the draft agenda that I have suggested that I may decide what to do next.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1063	As you can see, we have a lot of suggestions on the agenda that are well thought out and that are different to me, so the only thing left to do is all the proposed agenda points go dot by point. The points that will be accepted will be on the agenda. Points not accepted remain for the next session. I really don't see any other way to establish the agenda. 20 I am also obliged to meet MPs at the House of Representatives, and we have had 3-4 consultation meetings before this session, preparing work and secretariats and thinking about the concept of work. It wasn't really one day until today's New Year's Eve, for famous reasons, holidays, holidays, etc. and the intention was to complete the establishment of the House of Representatives' working bodies in one of the sessions today, to elect representatives of committees and vice-presidents. That was the intention, and then those working bodies could take over those obligations. Of course, there was one form of consent around this agenda, and we agreed on this, and other than this requirement for the election of the co-chair which was controversial and what was the request of the HDZ, the other issues were mostly as agreed on at the college. We expected it to go during which it was planned and expected. There are now many proposals that really require and prepare, etc. in the course of the draft agenda. And all these elements, given that I can only invite the MPs to come out individually. I will put all the points proposed to the vote and the points for which MPs are declared to be on the agenda we will consider. Of course, by saying that the working bodies will be built up, I mean the commissions not on European organisations' delegations, but on committees' working bodies will be established within the next few days. One day we will invite all MPs and hold meetings of all committees of all working bodies, because each of them is in one of the commissions, and some are in two commissions. So that day, we must re-invite all MPs and complete the constitution of these working bodies. So these are the details you need to keep in mind. Jahić Adnan reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1064	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed present, esteemed chairman and vice-president, I think the proposal proposed by Ambassador Mr. Šumaher is acceptable. An acceptable proposal that should be proposed, so that we do not leave this session today whose agenda we do not yet know without any conclusions. Without any concrete results, so that the first item of the agenda, this is my proposal as the MP of this House, was a proposal to confirm the presidency's decision to appoint the co-chair and chair, and with regard to this replica I have heard from a few MPs and a respected Mr Banjac, that we cannot just verify the mandate of the new heads of staff of the Council of Ministers, until we know what they have been doing over the past two years. I would just warn of one clear inconsistency because we would have to discuss all the forums and institutions and BiH delegations as well, we can not at all at the same logic to consider the issue of the appointment of a new parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe, without considering the work of this delegation and of course the delegation of the BiH Parliament at the OSCE without considering what this delegation was doing, so I think that when we talk about these things we must see an account of being consistent and that we have in mind all the BiH institutions and bodies whose work we should consider. On that basis, I would suggest, I would support Mr. Ibro Spahić's proposal that we conduct at this session the appointment of the co-chair and chair and that we be in charge of the Council of Ministers' leadership that as soon as it is established to submit a report on the work and work proposal for the next period. I think that's the thing we very much need, so I stand at the stand to support Ambassador Šumaher's proposal, Mr Ibrahim Spahić, in this regard. The second item of the agenda, therefore, as regards the constitution, i.e. the finalisation of the leadership of the assembly, as regards the election of the second deputy 21 chairperson of this House of Representatives, I think it is acceptable and should be on the agenda as a point, after we appoint the Havla and chairman. What would come as the third item of the agenda, as well as the point in Mr. Šumaher's proposal that the competent assembly bodies be tasked with considering how to improve the work of the House of Representatives to consider these aspects of improving this highest legislative body of BiH. As far as the assembly committees are concerned, there is no need to put this on the agenda at all. I fully support the proposal to simply give them a deadline of about 7 days, to convene, who will call on this is least important, we can determine within the conclusion that the oldest member of the commission is calling for their members to be elected by the commission to elect the chairman, I do not see at all that this should be problematicd which is a separate item of the agenda, we should only have enough political will for the committee to be convened, because it is obvious that the commissions did not work in the previous term, not because of some formal procedural matters, but rather because there was not enough political will of the members within the committee to work within the commissions and after being elected as their members. So it could be as one conclusion there's no need to be like a separate agenda point. I would at the end of this agenda, which I propose from the three points mentioned, propose to the College to consider as soon as possible the possibility of suspending the direct transfer of the House of Representatives' sessions, because it is obvious that this camera inspires individual people to appear for the word and use these sessions for the free political promotion, which in some ways devalues and reduces the efficiency of this home's work. Finally, I would like to replicate those who use an invalid category of the Representative Council, a valid term is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1065	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1066	I am very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Jahić has supported this proposal, which in some ways connects Mr Šumaher's proposal in a way and justifiable demands for the government's report and work programme to be heard. Of course, it is only about the verification of the co-chairs and vice presidents, they would have to come out when they propose ministers and the whole team, with an adequate programme basis and in this sense the proposal has been rationalised at this level. I supported Mrs. Havel, who I think very constructively said that they would like to come out with a proposal in seven days, at the next session, if I understood correctly, is that so, Mrs. Havel, and I think that this proposal should be put on the way of this session or at a new session. I think in that sense it may have been unclear between what I supported and what Mrs. Havel said to Mr. Jahić. So it's about your proposal for the next seven days, so we don't complicate the matter. To facilitate work,.... Let's do some I'm proposing one practical thing. It is that we would have had one disastrous situation in the BiH parliament if we had no TV, media and public change. I'm opposed to this proposal by Mr. Jahić, it won't be any surprise, a whole other belief. Not because I am a man who likes to use television, or Mr. Lagumdžija, for example. or Mr. Tokić, Bogičević, or Mrs. Havel, I only list my colleagues without 22 identification in relation to them, but simply the names I first thought of when I passed through the O.R. or Mr. Silajdžić here in the front row, or whoever you want, Čampara has no problem with that. I think the problem in this, we as a serious parliament, if we would suspend the presence of a public change in any way, would then come into a single position of a complete blockade, there is no basis for the media in any way, to be careful if Bundesteg is transferred, if the English parliament is transferred, if the Duma or any Parliament is transferred, by which we are the basic and only chosen we are chosen in a secret vote, but for public action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1067	Thank you. I'll close the debate on the agenda. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're going to vote on the proposals. I think perhaps the most practical thing would be to put a vote on group proposals. We had three or four draft agendas in full. If none of these proposals get the necessary majority, then we will go to each point individually to plead. We had a proposal from Mr. Banjac on the agenda, we had a proposal from Mr. Jahić on the agenda, we had a modified proposal from Ambassador Šumaher, which Mr. Jahić put out and we had a proposal on how you got the agenda. That's three group proposals so you can take it today. Unless either of these proposals gets the required majority, we will go each point individually. Mr Lagumdžija's proposal is the agenda as proposed and to add the agenda item of the Council of Ministers' Bill to the full agenda. I'll ask the promoter for every option to come out to propose and then to make a statement about it, and then the next proposal, etc. Unless one of the proposals gets the required majority, we will vote on each item of the agenda individually. In this way, we will respect the proposals, because there have been group proposals and individual proposals. So, just to formulate his proposal as a whole, to make it clear what it is, just to repeat it once more. First, Mr. Lagumdžija had a proposal, and please, Lagumdžija, just repeat that proposal once again, so there will be no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1068	The whole proposal is that the agenda reads the way it is suggested here not to read everything, where point 1 is the adoption of the minutes, 2 is the draft law on the national anthem, 3. Confirming the appointment of the BiH Co-chairing Council of Ministers, 4. Selection of delegations – not to pick up, 5. Consideration of the law delivered by the High Representative which was under point 6, then Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Immunity Act becomes 6th, Tax Act 7th, Under point 8 of the Law which I have proposed and under point 9. The proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers, which by its nature goes with the confirmation of the appointment of the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers, so we believe that this is how it should be adopted. In what way, Mr. Genjac, the proposal of this agenda is to adopt this and to go on the agenda points as long as there is readiness and agreement, and to continue on this agenda probably somewhere next week. 23 This is therefore the whole proposal, and it contains in itself that the appointment of the BiH Co-chairing Council of Ministers precedes as part of that point of Mr Divković's law along with the report we received, the operational programme for Madrid.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1069	Thank you. I'm putting this proposal you heard to the vote. I call upon the MPs to declare who is on this agenda proposal? Twelve totals, therefore, do not need a majority, if you insist against and abstained. There's no need. Thank you. The next proposal was Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1070	1st item of the agenda The adoption of the minutes for the 1st and 2nd sessions; 2nd adoption of conclusions on the place and conditions of holding meetings of the Parliamentary Council of B; 3rd selection of delegations; 4. Organisation of temporary secretariat work; 5. The appointment of the Secretary General and two Home Secretarys. And MP questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1071	Who is for this draft agenda please raise your hand. Thank you. Five for, I don't think there's any need to vote against. The third proposal was tabled by Mr Jahić, a somewhat modified proposal that was also Ambassador Šumaher and of course Spahić. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1072	The first item of the agenda – co-chairing and chairing, confirmation or selection. The second item of the agenda, I have heard that Mrs Havel is also consensual, namely the HDZ MPs' Club, that the completion of the assembly's leadership as regards the second vice-presidential assembly may be at the next session in that case I could withdraw the draft agenda point in terms of the obligation of the assembly to have on its agenda in the next session and in fact there is nothing more than two more, these are two conclusions we do not need to put an end to the agenda to consider improving the work of the Assembly bodies. What Mr. Šumaher has gone beyond is to conclude that the assembly obliges the competent commissions to consider the problem of more effective work of the congregation bodies and other aspects involved would be one conclusion. The second would be the conclusion that it is given 7 days to assembly committees to call on the oldest member to be obliged to call on members of the commission and to establish commissions and elect the chairman and, of course, put them in the function of all the proposed materials that have come to date. Therefore, a synthesis could be made with the proposed agenda where the records are also present to be respected. So there are records and changes to the co-chairs. 24
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1073	Let me explain. As far as working bodies are concerned, the chairman of the House of Representatives will call them until they are established and so is the Rules of Procedure. It's not that issue. So this proposal, how did Mr Jahić deliver one point and two conclusions mean a total of three points that would be adopted today and the remaining questions within 7 days, within which time would the working bodies be established Who is for this proposal, please raise your hand? 17 of those present. 36, so he doesn't have a majority. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive the required majority. 17 proposals, unfortunately, have not received a single proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1074	I'm asking you, my suggestion since we're on our way here, we have another proposal that won't obviously pass, but this proposal is like this. Let the first item of the agenda be the consideration of 1. And two. Seats, yes 2. The item of the agenda shall be to accept or give consent to prepare decisions on the seat of the Assembly and organisational forms by the next Assembly, which would include, if a colleague of Banjac spoke if it were to be shown that there is a secretary, office of the Secretariat, etc. I beg you, I repeat once again, really without such agreement to do so to be done by the services of the Assembly, MPs of the Sloga Coalition will not come to the next Assembly. Understand however you wish, we feel that this is necessary for the congregation to make such a decision. We do not prejudge what that decision will be, but we ask that such a decision be made. For the third item of the agenda, I propose that it be as defined in the proposed agenda of the selection of delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If all parliamentary groups have proposals for this. And I suggest that the fourth item of the agenda be the election of the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers. I think it's one compromise based on all of this that can result from this assembly and create an active position for the next assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1075	Thank you. So, and this proposal, I am obliged to put to the vote and call on the MPs to plead out, who is for the passing which Mr Dokić has made? Who's in? Four MPs in. So this proposal did not get the required majority either. Unfortunately. We'll take a 15-minute break for a consult. Before that break point, 15 minutes ago. A 15-minute break. [[continuing after break]] Please take your seats. I would like to inform you in the meantime of the consultations that have been carried out between the representatives and the colleagues and one part of the parties, we have agreed to act in the following way. Let's now make one end to this session to continue on Wednesday morning, with representatives of all parliamentary parties and all MPs on Tuesday's 14th meeting with the intention of doing two jobs. One job to establish working bodies to elect the chairman and vice-presidents, and another job, since all MPs are members of at least some commission, so it is necessary that we all arrive on Tuesday at 14 am, and another job would be for representatives of parliamentary parties, so club representatives agree on the agenda for Tuesday, for Wednesday morning. With the agreement that the first point of the sequel would be to confirm and appoint the co-chair of the Council of Ministers with the possibility to appoint the entire Council of Ministers if conditions are prepared for this. That's the deal that's been reached, and I'm asking you to respect this, and Tuesday at 2:00 p.m., I'll see you. The session was completed at 6:35 p.m. Hey, hey, hey, hey, 26
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1078	Dear Presidency, distinguished fellow MPs and guests, I would be free to go back to the events of our last meeting for giving a solemn statement by the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that's the question that's left unsaid. In that sense, we also gave the official notice here and then we pointed out that the formal statement of the candidate for the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina was not given by established procedure and we challenged it as such. We also said that such a decision is not valid for us at all and as such cannot produce legal facts. With this, we propose that this judge make a solemn statement under the constitutional procedure, because surely, we, as the most legislative body in Bosnia and Herzegovina, must indeed be those who will fully respect the rules that are prescribed and which we must adhere to. That's one thing. 27 Another thing - I would also refer to earlier existing decisions on holding sessions. There were decisions to, and these decisions are still in force, to hold two sessions at the Marin Court - therefore, in this building and the third session - therefore, one session in Lukavica. The principle is also not respected and easily overcome. In the end, just one technical suggestion. We ask the Technical Service - gentlemen of the Presidency to continue, to work more efficiently in the Council of Representatives - so, who come from the Serbian people, to allow us to sit next to each other for consultations before making decisions, and not as it seems every time we are away from each other and we cannot consult on things that we think are necessary to agree on before the vote. So that's clean, Mr. Chairman, one technical suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1079	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1080	Forgive me, in this first item of the agenda, I would like to ask, in the light of what I have said - so, for the sake of laying down this solemn statement by the judge, we are, in any case, asking that, on this matter, the Special Representative Council be declared, because we believe for the last time really that the decision to take out the established agenda of the solemn statement has not been made in a legal way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1081	Thank you. I would ask - what is needed in the announcement yet to point out to achieve greater efficiency in the work, in order to focus really on issues that are on the agenda, we agreed on the College to take the Presidential College into account the Rules of Procedure, which determines that the discussion takes 10 minutes, the replica five minutes and that the discussions refer to the points of the agenda. I present this at the beginning of this debate and, of course, we will try objectively to apply these criteria to all MPs and ask that you take care of the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Tokić called for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1082	On behalf of the group of opposition political parties of the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democrats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the New Croatian Initiative, I would like to support the proposed agenda by calling for the sixth item of the agenda, during today and tomorrow, given that the two-day session of this High House is scheduled, to take action to create the necessary conditions to make decisions concerning the establishment of the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, I would also like to express the disfavor of this group of political parties -- parliamentary parties, which we are not at all involved in the process of agreeing on the establishment of the interim Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I assume that you have left the logic by which the sekretarijat is related only to a particular group of ruling political parties, I assume that the new sekretarijat should be linked to the successful functioning of every MP and every member of Parliament. In this context, I would like to express my 28 disdains and ask that we be involved in all the talks on this important issue, so that this high House can function. At the same time, I would take advantage of this announcement that, on behalf of this group of political parties, which, I think, is very important to say, by the number of MPs second-largest groups of parliamentarians in this high House, since neither HDZ nor SDS nor Radikal nor Syllabeth have that number of MPs, that this group is completely excluded from the agreements concerning the established commission of this high House. In fact, as the only multinational group, we have been put in a position to dictate beyond the electoral results of the demands that the committee's seats must be filled in, which commission and which nationality. We just can't accept that logic. Therefore, we have been gently insisting on this House's leadership to hold talks on initiatives, only after 12 hours, to reach the most favourable solution for the constitution of committees, and in this context we have sent letters to a series of telegrams and to this day, only after 12 hours have we received a single dictatorship by which the participation of these committees, according to the agreement of the existing other groups, made impossible the participation of MPs in the parliamentary assembly's delegation, i.e. the delegation of the House of Representatives in the Council of Europe, as well as in the commissions of the presidents and vice presidents, whom we, as an opposition bloc, considered priority - and this primarily the Commission on the issues of human rights and the Commission on the issues of finance and budget.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1083	Mr. Tokić, we're on the agenda. When we talk about commissions, you'll have a chance to make your point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1084	I fully respect your observation. However, in the call for today's agenda, an integral part of this Parliament's work has been the establishment of a committee of 11 hours and, since Parliament is not only sitting through the House of Representatives, but also through committees -- let me finish my presentation. In this context, we call on this House of Representatives and MPs, as well as the Office of the High Representative, to be interested in this case in the classical violation of the right of the political minority and to correct these mistakes and irregularities, as much as we can hardly expect to be involved in the Council of Europe with this relationship. At the same time, I would finally underline our full support for the established agenda and the desire to make progress, while at the same time requesting that this irregularity be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1085	About the agenda - Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1086	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, it is precisely that when we find ourselves on the agenda agreement, man and to think that we who agree that we truly care about every kind of shift in the work of the joint bodies in this Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that, after that, given that we are new MPs, by reading certain legal projects that have been adopted, we are in a position to realize that every time someone in public tells us that he cares about the move - he tries, in violation of 29 laws, to block the work of the Representative Council. I am, of course, immediately pleading for the proposed agenda, with the first need to agree here - are we going to violate the adopted laws or not? If we agree in front of the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we will, then this is the right way to adopt the agenda as delivered. And now I'm going to tell you why, perhaps, we should correct the agenda. Today at this session are important agenda points, perhaps crucial points for both the Council of Representatives and the Council of Ministers and everything that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina expect. Here, starting on the fourth item of the agenda - Confirming the appointment of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, those who propose have not even qualified to come to this session. We think people are packing it up in a package and saying: it's these three or four people -- to talk about all the attributes that bind them to those names, to say that they are clearly and loudly behind those names, and that after that, the citizens might know whose original proposal it is. Secondly, I must say that in this case, the Presidency seriously violated the Law called the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here is the original Presidency Decision, which says: “The decision to appoint the co-chair and vice-chair of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina - point 1. Haris Silajdžić and Svetozar Mihajlović are named chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers. - point 2. Neven Tomić is named vice-president of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina." This is the Bureau's decision. Those people who said the respected laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina would swear before these citizens and representatives of the International Community who observe their work. The Ministry Act consistently states: - Article 6. - "The co-chairman is appointed by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as the Presidency and after they have been approved by the House of Representatives). - item 2 - “The chairperson, or vice-president, ministers and deputy ministers, shall be appointed co-chaired, with the Presidency’s opinion attached, and shall assume their duties after being approved by the House of Representatives”. I ask the MPs - are we going to work in accordance with the adopted laws or are we going to work with inter-cultural agreements, fences, behind the public and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I am in favour of this - until the members of the Presidency and the chairman of the Presidency do not allow them to come to this Parliament and explain their proposals until they agree to the proposals with the positive legislation, which Parliament adopts among other things, to remove this point from the agenda, because we are invited to protect, among other things, the law. I propose: - There is no legal basis today at all to discuss this item of the agenda, unless we tell the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that we have violated the law today, tomorrow we will break it again and there will be no expected results from this Parliament's work in the future. I don't mind that, when we discuss the agenda, once again, the MPs' clubs sit down and the agenda item under number 6 bears the title “Decision”, 30, but “Dispute Draft Decision”. Maybe there's a decision to make. We need to open the cards sometime to see why and who's blocking. I have a draft of that decision, so the Bošnjak, when they can't get through something, then they say, let's delete Article 2, so they don't remember the representatives of the International Community, because that, among other things, concerns two letters from the High Representative of Mr. Vestendorp from March and April 1998. I'm not into that kind of work. We have to tell one face to face who's blocking and why is it blocking? I don't think there's any more of that black spot where you've learned everything that doesn't go by now. Unfortunately, I must say, very often, according to instructions from individual representatives of the International Community, that you place a burden on a party that is not to blame. So let's open the cards and see where the problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1087	With regard to the agenda, I call on the MPs - are there other suggestions and remarks? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1088	I think we've known each other enough through these three sessions, I'm going to skip that opening part of the formal greeting. I would like to help the outcome of today's Assembly succeed. Let those things that have been clearly defined, which we have agreed on for a long time and which, I think, have been agreed at a preparatory meeting to do so today. I support Mr Špirić's suggestions in the sense that things are legally clearly defined. In this regard, I propose that the 4th item of the agenda be redefine and stand above: “Confirmation of the appointment of the Co-Chair of the Council of Ministers” and I ask that we declare it immediately - that we are working expeditionively. Put this proposal to the vote. I will say this: So, I suggest that it be redefined and that it stands out as “Confirmation of the appointment of the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers”, and what Mr Špirić said - that is correct - that if we confirm them, they will then, if we confirm them, propose a composition on which we can discuss at some next point today, if they have, of course, reasoned proposals for the composition of the Council of Ministers. I think it would be good to leave this 6th point for the next time, that it be well prepared in the spirit of these letters that Mr Špirić mentioned earlier, which were sent to the then members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, and signed by the High Representative, Mr Vestendorp. I think we should try to be expeditional today and finish this session today. I don't think there's really any need to stall and postpone the session for tomorrow. In that sense, I realized that the discussion doesn't have to take 10 minutes, that it can take a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1089	Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1090	Dear gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, 31 I am extremely uncomfortablely surprised by the fact that the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina has sent a decision to the High House that is not in line with the law mentioned here. Please, does that mean that I should read all these decisions in the future and agree with the legal acts, because that means I have to find a legal advisor and do it with him. Furthermore, with full respect for the constructive approach to work at this session, this point - if desired, must be removed from the agenda. Here's why. There is no Bureau decision on the appointment of co-chairs, there is no such decision. And she's not in front of us, but she's in a decision that includes both the co-chair and the vice president as a package of gentlemen. Whether it's a political solution or not, I don't want to dream about it, I want to get a clear decision that's in line, and there aren't such decisions -- and if there were gentlemen in the Presidency I wouldn't allow myself such luxury to take their word for what they thought. What they thought they'd write. So, gentlemen, no one has the right to invite MPs here to break the law. Second, let the gentlemen of the Bureau choose to make a decision in accordance with the law. That's the kind of decision we're going to consider. I'm withdrawing my consent on this agenda point -- as a member of the College, I'm not giving consent, so -- they're going to have to vote individually on each point now. I have been deceived and, in the future, I will try not to be deceived, so I ask you that this is not happening - that the decision is returned to the Presidency, with one conclusion that this high House is concerned by the approach of members of the Presidency on such important issues. Furthermore, I am expressing dissatisfaction that the members of our Presidency are not attending the sessions of this high House, whether they are not respecting us or anything else. I don't believe that if two were prevented, then it's not one or if one was prevented then it's not two. I can't accept the fact that we here hate to deal with our presidency through the media. I don't accept that kind of approach. I pray that, I don't know if anyone has the right to ask us to vote against the law, I don't think anyone has a right to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1091	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Divković (relenting), Mrs. Ana (reduced). I'll look back briefly on what's been said about the agenda and try to come up with a solution. First of all, as far as making a solemn statement. As regards the solemn declaration, no prescribed procedure has been violated. All the judges of the Constitutional Court have just signed their oaths before the House of Representatives. This judge who was and signed and made a statement to the MPs of the House of Representatives. No strict procedure has been prescribed anywhere. The second thing, a decision has been made to give a statement, to the soul, to the majority of the votes present, since it is a question that is questionable whether it requires a third of the one and the other entity, most MPs have declared that the judge has made a statement and has joined it. Because it's controversial, I'll put you on the vote whether you need to judge that statement again, that's one thing. If the House of Representatives declares itself either for one or for another option, the Constitutional Court shall remain to declare that because the Constitutional Court is referred to the case. That's one thing. Furthermore, as regards the proposal to set 32 Parliament meetings and the more efficient work of Parliament, this is a question that should, of course, be held at the meetings of the Colleges and the subject of the agreement, but in line with all that has been discussed so far and decided and agreed, and this is not the issue of today's agenda. As for the Commission's observations on the agenda, we had today as announced at 11 o'clock the completion of the establishment of the working bodies of the House of Representatives. Meetings of these committees were held, all MPs and all parties were informed of these meetings. Prior consultations were needed on individual solutions, as both national and party and entity structures of the presidential and vice-presidential seats in these commissions need to be met. Certain consultations were carried out and they lasted until yesterday. The first call that came from this group that was spoken of arrived yesterday with a proposal that we meet at 11 today and agree and we did it at 11 today. The group, which has a total of 16.6%, has come up with an agreement that three parties will perform together, which were special in the election and each has a 3% to about 9%. We respect this as if it were created as a group and we respected their percentage of 16.6% of the 7 commissions is one presidential post and one presidential seat for this group is secured, a concrete presidential post in one commission that is important at the very top among all other committees. Two vice-presidential seats in this group have also been secured, which is also in line with the group's election results, the percentage of the group. National representation has been suggested in all places because Bosnia is of three constituent peoples and others and we have to take care of that fact, but it is not imperatively required of this political group to fill its positions with strict nationalities. So it was left by choice, that's the facts. These commissions have been established, I welcome that fact and I think it will be a useful moment in the work of the House of Representatives. Of course, as well as can be agreed on, what cannot be agreed is legitimately expressed as an attitude, but all issues need to be fought democratically, which means that the Commission chooses among its members by majority of the votes, that is to the Rules of Procedure. If compromise and agreement cannot be reached, the solution is to vote mostly as is done. When we come to the question of the delegations of the BiH Parliament towards European associations, of course, we will also have a debate and a democratic way to try to make every party and group and coalition achieve their position that we must consider legitimate. As far as this issue is concerned about the agenda, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1093	Mr. President says the finals of the Commission's constitution were held today. I would like to say that we have not participated in the constitution of committees until the end and that we have taken all steps to be included as equal members of this Parliament and as a group of Members of Parliament who have such a numerical state that they can and believe that they are represented in committees. What's the problem? The problem is that we have been left with a seat in one commission and two alternate seats in two commissions, and we have not participated in our own interests which the commissions are interested in and which places we can adequately fill with people who can adequately answer in those places. I must say that SDP President Zlatko Lagumdžija was in front of the MPs at the first consultation where it was only indicated so that the schedule could be carried out, asked if we would agree on this and it was left to be discussed in the MPs' clubs, so we'll agree. Since 33 of that deal was gone, and we couldn't get to it, because we weren't called for deals, we sent a fax three days ago to look for one deal before holding a session of commissions. I phoned Mr. Genjac yesterday to ask if the deal was going to be held before, because we didn't want to slow down the work and constitution of the commission. We were told to come by at 11:00, so we'll make a deal. We waited almost half today for our question and our request to be considered, i.e. to sit with the chairman and vice-president to agree and express our interests. We brought these interests forth, we were told this was what we had foresaw for you, so take it or leave it. The fact is, we're told, you can change the nationality, you don't have to change the one that's agreed. Since we are a group of Social Democrats 6 and 1 MPs from the New Croatian Initiative, which will not have representation, i.e. representation in the Council of Ministers, we felt that it was logical to agree that this group has more space than mathematics itself shows that this would be useful for Parliament and we have made our proposals. We're ready to reduce these proposals, not sneezing things, but we can't accept to say we chose this, and this is what's left of you, and that's about it. We have an interest in these commissions, these have an interest in other commissions, this is for you, so here's what you suggest a man. We cannot accept such a way of working and therefore have not participated in the constitution of committees, and therefore we now present this to this House of Representatives in order to change the behaviour and attitude of this group. We also think that this is useful for Parliament's work as a whole. Otherwise, as far as the agenda is concerned, we are not questioning this agenda, we were in favour of the proposed agenda, and now we are calling on all MPs to try to be in the course of these two days, because the session was called in two days, to resolve the misunderstandings and all the proposed agenda points, but we are asking again that we be included in the 6th item of the agenda. We cannot engage in force if the arrangements are made between the chairman and his deputy and the parties they represent, and we are not present, and the agenda should be known to all MPs. When they make a deal or they don't make a deal. Now, the case is that they do not agree, we cannot participate in contributing to the agreement, and we as MPs who are responsible to our voters, and to the stranka that has delegated us to the lists of electoral ones, we want to contribute to Parliament's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1094	Thank you. So each working body of the House of Representatives in its membership has a group or an adequate number of MPs or higher, and most often a larger number. This means, at the same time, that in the Administrative Commission that will work on a defined version of the systematisation and establishment of the professional service, and that group is represented by an adequate number of MPs, therefore they will absolutely be involved in the development of systematization and professional services. It's absolutely useful when it's agreed. Today, it was not possible to agree on the chairman's commission. You know, the political group that's looking for one place or another, the ultimate or that or we say nothing, we can't give it away, because there's some order that satisfies both the entity structure and the party and the strength of the parties, etc. What's the way when you can't agree to hold a commission meeting, most of the votes you choose. I'm the third, believe me, I can't see it's not made up, probably the third way. Therefore, commissions held their meetings with the presence of quorums on those bodies and elected the chairman, what belongs to the group's election results has been secured. It'd be ideal if you'd indulge all sides. This is sometimes not possible and then the majority vote remains, and that is, but 34 is the correct one seat of the chairman of the House of Representatives and one seat of the chairman of the House of Peoples was left in this group. Absolutely more than the election result. So please, that's an explanation as far as it's concerned, because this preceded the session. The following suggestion about the agenda - we have concluded the debate on the agenda. Replica, please. Replication on the line, to make sure, because I explain how things were going, about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1095	Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt you at all, but here's the lady in front of me, so I'm also using that right for half a minute, so I don't think you'll blame me, either you or the other colleagues. So, as for this first question I asked, your argument is quite fine, that it went to the Court for giving a solemn statement. However, on item 2, therefore, holding a session is one principle issue, and you have literally said that this question is not the issue of today's agenda. I think it's a very important question for a simple reason, it would have been asked as a question of whether either one of us came or if we hadn't all come, for the simple reason that the practice has been established so far, such decisions exist on how to hold a session, when it comes to holding a session. So, I ask you to decidently tell us why you want one agreement and decisions that so far exist to overcome in the sense that this is the case with an unprincipled question and the state of play. Do not put us in a position to really withdraw certain questions that are not needed. So I'm asking you to explain to us the explanation that the 3rd session didn't schedule in Lukavica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1096	So, according to the Interim Protocol on the work of the House of Representatives, it was agreed that, as the Bureau does, as the predsjendištvo had held its meetings, two sessions would be held in the building of the Earth Museum, and the 3rd session at the Faculty of General Engineering in Lukavica. At the moment this building was qualified and after the expiry of this provisional protocol, a meeting of the House of Representatives was launched, and after the BiH presidency was launched in this region and since then it has been held in this building. The Bureau also updated the issue after talks held at the Bureau, continuing practice for the Bureau to hold meetings here. The Bureau followed the Bureau in the method of work, in the place of appointment, and that is what I can say at the moment with one addition that you are all familiar with the letter sent by the High Representative to the House of Representatives on the subject. That's the answer I can give at this point, I ask you to formulate this question as a matter of agenda at some next session, and now let's approach the specificization of today's agenda. When it comes to the disputed point disputed by several MPs, confirmation of appointments, I remind you that the decision to appoint the Presidency reached December 23rd. That decision was made by all MPs, as well as members of the College, or representatives of the parties who attended this meeting which took place seven days ago, when we established the agenda. That's the facts. I allow the possibility that someone might not have addressed the text enough, so perhaps now, or listened, got some consultation, so I noticed 35, however, so we had this fact in mind when we set the agenda point and when we agreed on it. It is true that the Bureau appoints the chairperson, but it is also true that the Bureau gives its consent to the vice president. And I see absolutely no problem here, which in the decision was made to make a decision to appoint the chairman and vice president, understanding this as the Bureau's consent to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers. And a very simple way out of this is to separate the issue of confirming the Decision to appoint the chair and confirm the Decision appointing members of the Council of Ministers. So the dots are prepared, the decision prepared, I see absolutely no interference to solve this issue in a very elegant way. So, to be very clear, there's no interference that today's work on the agenda doesn't end today. And the third thing, as regards the 6th item of the agenda, however MPs suggest, is whether it is a consideration of decision-making or decision-making, the Coalition Club that was indirectly called through the indication of Bošnjak who are obstructing will accept that item of the agenda, because all points of the coalition's agenda have so far accepted that there is no misunderstanding. So whether it was called the point of making a decision on the Secretariat or the point of considering the Decision, the Koalciji klub has already considered and will accept. It's not about obstructions, it's about trying to find the best solution. Therefore, and accepts the Coalition Club and the possibility to get off the agenda, to call it different, absolutely no problem at all. And just to get to know, this is where the 6-employee Secretariat, which is according to the concept, which has been created in collaboration with the OHR, was established here, and this secretariat -- not chairing the College, but this secretariat is preparing versions of these documents that will serve temporarily until the Administrative Commission does its job, until a definitive decision on the system of establishing professional services is made. So, don't do it to the College, don't do it to the chairman, it's done by the Secretariat who was established here and who works here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1097	I apologize, just to help myself, please, as much as the BiH Presidency is, please and the cameras would do well to record this, seriously approach the business of this decision, it can be said, in a preamble that, on the basis of Article 5(5). The BiH Constitution, and see what does point 5 say? - Permanent committee. Don't tell me what it says, I tell you what it says here in the Decision. This must be seen by the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You have to see this. And someone wants me here to convince me that I should vote for this. Please, gentlemen, this is unserious, very responsible, I say, this is unserious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1098	Is there any after this, since we have concluded the debate on the agenda, I do not see any further need to discuss the agenda. We need to approach the agenda statement. I owe you one, Mr. Čaršimamović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1099	Mr. Chairman, before we make a statement on the agenda, I would like to say a few words about your motion to vote, are we going to repeat our solemn 36 statements to the Constitutional Court Judge or not? I view this discussion and the possibility of voting as a disgrace to BiH institutions and functions. The Constitutional Court judge in every normal state is a very respected function. The Constitutional Court judge Azra Omeragić chose the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives and gave a solemn statement here before all of us. I don't see how or what we should vote on. So I ask you to stop and protect the institutions and functions of this state and not vote on it, but if there is a problem, the Constitutional Court shall bring whether it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1100	Thank you. I call upon the MPs, I must honor the Rules of Procedure and the motion of each MP adequately treated. I think this, too, is quite what is stated in the discussion, Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1101	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, in order not to let us know who last time we joined the vote, we voted for seven agendas, where there were at least 5-6 common points where we could condense this agenda out of it and do something and it would not happen today, and I suggest the following before the vote: We set the agenda at the meeting seven days ago. There was no point six on that agenda. Since it has been challenged by some MPs, in order to overcome the situation, I propose that we consider this decision in the draft, that we have the opportunity to make a final decision in the next assembly and to lead to what we agreed last time, so please do not now give the agenda to the vote on the full agenda, but to intervene in such a way as to bring the agenda to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1102	Thank you. So, I was just about to find out that the College of Representatives of all parties proposed and supported one agenda. Since all MPs have received this agenda, I am obliged to put this agenda, which all parties supported and accepted, to put to the vote. This means, the agenda that includes the fifth point, the sixth point, and we will vote on it in particular because it was not agreed on at the College, on the sixth point we will particularly declare what it will be called. And all the other points of 1st, 2rd, 3rd,4th,5th and parliamentary issues have been agreed in Koelgi, and I am putting the proposal to the vote, and we will discuss the other proposals later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1103	Before the vote, I beg to be respected. I apologize, if this high house wants to respect the Interim Rules of Procedure, then it must be respected. The agenda determines the College, that's what it says. You were, please, gentlemen, proposing to the College... I agree, thank you very much for that. He suggests, but we did not agree because I said that I later saw that it was a legal lack of a decision that was not in line with neither the Constitution of BiH nor the Council of Ministers law with either one, so I withdrew my consent for that reason which I was subsequently aware of and therefore cannot be voted on, then I will have to vote which, as one of the vice presidents, I propose and I have a proposal. 37
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1104	Thank you. The College proposes the agenda, the House of Representatives by majority vote, according to the required majority of adoptions. I remain on the proposal and as a member of the College and in front of all the representatives, all the parties present at the meeting remain at the proposal to work on the established agenda, while noting that the work on point B is in line with the law. Please, who's up for such a proposed agenda? What? Point 6 shall be specifically considered whether it will be, as it will be specifically called, determined. Therefore, the established agenda is to be considered in accordance with the law, subject to the requirement of point 4 of sub-B. Who's up for that proposal? I'm looking for a break 10 minutes before the vote. Let's finish it louder and then. I'm looking for a voting break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1107	Please, I stand up to it, you're wrong, there's no voting and it can't be that way. Please take it, the vote didn't start, you didn't ask who else.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1108	Please count, I have to finish the vote and we'll take a break. The vote started people, let's be principled, they raised their hands the moment they asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1109	Please, Mr. Chairman, the vote begins the moment you say who's in favour. You didn't say that before the man asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1110	Please, don't make an observation about this session 15 minutes later. I respect and I'm willing to give, but don't ask anyone to comment on the session after 10 minutes. Break 10 minutes. Pause [[after break]] Sit on your targets, we'll keep working. The break that came at the request of the SDS MPs' club, the SR is over, I have a registered debater. Mr. Špirić. 38
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1112	Gentlemen, chaired by fellow Members of Parliament, the SDS, SR and DS for Banja Luka and Krajina discussed the new situation, given that by entering this parliament we have sworn all MPs that we will respect the laws and the Constitution of the BiH, given that the decisions and the points of the agenda, that is, the Presidency's decisions serious violation of and the law and the Constitution of BiH, if you approach the vote against the excessive points of the agenda in accordance with the proposal in which the law and the BiH Constitution are violated, we will drop this session, and we will file a lawsuit to the Constitutional Court of BiH, all elected representatives will be considered illegal until the Constitutional Court's solution. That is why I call on you once again, let us not, by mistake, violate the law and the Constitution of BiH. Thank you very much, this is our decision, and we will hold a press conference afterwards so that others do not deliberately interpret us to express our views to the general public of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1113	Thank you. It is doubtless that the Bureau has appointed two co-chairs, it is unequivocally and there is no doubt that the decision will be confirmed. It is also clear that the vice-president of the Council needs the Bureau's consent and that it is appointed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which must be respected and respected, and that is the only way to do so. Therefore, according to the College's agreement in accordance with what we agreed, we discussed with the fact that during the debate at certain points in the agenda and must be guided and, as always, taken into account both the laws and the procedure, so, with that fact and that finding, I am putting the proposed agenda of points 1 to 5 on the plea. Please, who was proposed by the College for the proposed agenda? 25 votes in favor. We have to establish votes for the entities. From the Federation's space, who's for please? 23 from Federation space. With the RS space, who's for please? Five votes from the RS space. So you need a majority from Federation 23. So that's a total of 28. Who's against you, please? Who's against it at all, is there anyone against this agenda proposal? Are there any abstentions? Four abstentions. Let's just finish the vote. Please, we're gonna have to do it again so there's no misunderstanding. I call on you again to pay attention, please from the Federation and the Republic of Serbia we will repeat. From the Federation's space who's in favour? Twenty from the Federation's space, it takes most of the Federation's space. From the RS space who's in? All right, five, all right. 5 from the RS space needs a majority, 20 from the Federation's space, 25 from the elected MPs who are in the House of Representatives of 42 and from the MPs present and on the entity level. No votes, no abstentions. So the agenda has been adopted, as far as these first five points of the agenda are concerned. Mr. Banjac answered the line. 39
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1114	Dear Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, Mr. Deputy High Representative. With great surprise and concern and surprise, I must inform you that I am leaving the work of this assembly until further notice is reached by the Constitutional Court on the violation of the BiH Constitution and the Council of Ministers' Law. I can't allow myself as a man and an MP to participate in something, and I swore I wouldn't do it. Please, this is primarily my moral act, but also my parliamentary obligation. I pray that such an interpretation, I am ready to continue to work, the moment this high house is called upon by the law, or by the laws of this state, and when we are not naturally bound by any decisions that they do not have, they do not have a foothold in the law and they want to pass. I also reserve the right to address the Office of the High Representative personally because I consider him responsible and also a very important person who can help me with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1115	Thank you. The obligation of our MPs is, among other things, to respect the will of most Members and decisions made by most. It is also an obligation to respect the law, which at no time did not question the MPs who voted for the agenda, so it would be ungrateful to declare in advance something illegal or legal to address the Constitutional Court. Mr. Divković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the replica is to conclude that something is against the constitution. We voted on the agenda. What's against voting on the agenda? When the agenda comes to an end that we want to discuss, then we can talk about what is in accordance with the law in accordance with the decision in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, the finding that what we voted against on the agenda is completely unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1117	Thank you. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1118	I wanted to underline, to point out what my previous colleague said and ask the chairman to lead the session, not to allow the divorce session from the very beginning, we began to discuss the agenda points at the very beginning, and it was only the adoption of the agenda. What was said about point 5 is to be said when point 5 comes to the point 5. It's similar about this. But when I got out, I really wanted to say my deep disappointment about what there are no members of the presidency today. The moment they propose and ask us to confirm their first associates in the next two years. It's really disrespecting this high house that makes those decisions. That's one thing. And the other thing, one truly final reminder to the Bureau and the Bureau's services in that service must not come out of any official error acts. There's been a mistake here, it's, the ones who pointed out they were right, but I think it's more important what should come after this and that's why I stayed in session today, but I warn that this is my last tolerance in that sense. Even in 40 elementary schools, such mistakes as have occurred in this act that has come to such an important place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1119	Thank you. Mr. Bosić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1120	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I'm not an MP and I never had any intention, not even these two years. Here you are the witnesses to the work of the congregation and this high house. But with these developments today, I must tell you that it has led us into an awkward position. Now I need to detach between these two blocks, whether to stay or to leave. I would ask the congregation of this one to find a way to normalize the work of the congregation otherwise as per the system. I am sorry not only when it comes to the work of this house but I will not accept anyone. In that case, please, I'd also like to ask you for a report from the Council of Ministers if you can agree if you don't, then I need to think about how I should act.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1121	Thank you. Mr. Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1122	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to find a way out of this situation. One number of MPs came out and each of our decisions would be valid under the Rules of Procedure and, by some other acts, carry the burden of not having all the people who were supposed to vote here. There's a formal and essential question here. I suggest the following, that we address the formal flaw that exists in that decision. I would ask the professional service of this parliament to contact the offices of the Bureau members, it is possible to do so in half an hour to correct the decision in a way that it is in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law. That decision can be made for the next half hour on these benches, so we can normally do business further. Unless it's something else, which means essential. If it's just this formal aspect I know it can be removed within the next half hour.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1123	Thank you. The Secretariat, meanwhile, has made a proposal for a decision that the House of Representatives needs to make and which respects what Mr Prlić has stated and which absolutely sets the matter in line with the law and the Constitution. I ask the members of the secretariat to contact the offices, or the cabinets of the chair, to try the correction that is in the text of the decision, holding that this is a formal issue and that the reasons for the non-voting are completely different in nature. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1124	I'd really agree with the Rules of Procedure. You can hardly expect the seriousness of the session if you act like one yourself. 41 I am truly afraid that we have opened a debate over this agenda point, including your urgency to formulate the presidency's decision in a different way. I'd like to ask you to define the agenda. We've established the fifth item of the agenda. When conditions are obtained to discuss these points of the agenda individually. We're going to get into trouble, we're going to have a session break-up, and I'm going back to all parliamentary parties' orthodition for two days. Which means when we find out, when we get to the point of the agenda where there is a consensus, there is an opportunity to sit down with the other representatives of the parliamentary parties and see if there are conditions for a better performance in order to discuss the essence rather than the other part. In this context, I ask you to consider the draft decision, so consider a decision regarding the secretariat. Let Parliament determine this as a item of the agenda, as the 6th item of the agenda where they would in a certain way open the debate and see where the problems are. Until we open that kind of problem to this congregation, we obviously cannot overcome it. Because these deals in tight circles obviously don't commit to anyone because the College agreed on one thing as soon as you got here, you changed your mind. In terms of this “I have now remembered I am canceling this obedience”. Let Parliament take its responsibility and, in this context, in addition to these 5 points we adopted, I propose that this point be included on the secretariat, a debate on the formulation of the secretariats. Thank you. I call once again on the members of the Secretariat to get in touch with the cabinets of the Bureau members to try to do this exercise. It is absolutely for the purpose of working on agenda points and useful to try to achieve at this point. As we have announced, as we have established, we have mostly voted and adopted the fifth item of the agenda. Around the 6th item of the agenda, which was listed in the text of the call as the Decision on the establishment of the interim secretariat of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there were several proposals. There was a proposal to postpone this point for the next session, with the Secretariat and the Administrative Commission that we have finally established, prepare a point in full and to present it in a quality way at the next session. That was one proposal, the second proposal was to keep the point as it was called and the running proposal was to do a point called considering the draft. I'll make suggestions on how to put them to the vote in order. First, this proposal to postpone the point of preparation in both the Secretariat and the Administrative Commission. Who's for this proposal please raise your hand? 23 are for this proposal. Who's against it? Two against. Are there any abstentions? Therefore, after two suggestions, the item tabled in the agenda was decided to postpone the next session with previous application on the Administrative Commission and in the Secretariat. Thank you. So I figure, of course, the point: which is here on each one is supported and should not be declared. The agenda of today’s session thus seems to be 42 1. Selection of deputy chairman of the Croatian House of Representatives, 2. Approval of Minutes 1 and 2 of House of Representatives, 3. Report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers from 1.1.1997 to 30.10.1998, 4. Confirmation of the appointment of the composition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers (A) to the programme of work of the Co-chairs and Vice-Vijać of Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) to confirm the decision of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on the appointment of the Co-chairs of the Council of Ministers, and (c) to confirm the appointment of ministers, deputies and vice-presidents of the Council of Ministers, that is, the amendment which respects the procedure when the appointment of the Council of Ministers' Vice-Presidents as prescribed by law. 5. Selection of delegations from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina (a) The Organisation of European Security and Co-operation, (b) the Central European Initiative, (c) the Interparliamentary Group of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Interparliamentary Union, (d) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Six. MPs' questions. We'll take a short break of five minutes and start with the 1st item of the agenda. After the break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1127	Ladies and gentlemen, for the vice president of this high house in front of the Croatian people, I suggest Mr. Per Skopljak. Pero Skopljak was born in Vitez and graduated from the Theological Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Insburg, Austria, where he also mastered there in 1971. The stake is I think a person who will meet all the necessary conditions for doing these jobs. I hope he gets elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1128	Thank you. Any other suggestions? Here you go, Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1129	In front of the Social Democratic Party and Social Democrats of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the New Croatian Initiatives, we inform this house that we also remain on the proposal we had at the first session, which is that the deputy chairman of this House is proposed by Ivo Mijačević. Ivo Mijačević was born on January 19th 1947 in Gradac, finished the former JNA Military Academy, and a major staff academy in Belgrade, served 20 years in Slovenia, and during the war he was the commander of the Gradačac defence, now awaiting retirement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1130	Thank you. Any other suggestions? As far as I can tell, I'm going to put the motions to the vote, in the order they're put out. So, the first breakthrough is ahead of HDZ that the deputy chairman will be Pero Skopljak. I call upon the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is behind this proposal? Of the 29 MPs present, 21 voted in favour, the majority required. We also need to establish the entity representation of the vote in order to see first the potassium of the majority is established, so we're going against the abstentions. Who's from the Federation area for? From the Federation area is 15 for. Who's from the RS area for? It's eight from RS space. Therefore, the proposal was accepted. Who is against this proposal to be Pero Skopljak? Who's being held back? Therefore, with 21 votes for, two against and four abstentions, with the required majority and the necessary ethnic representation of the votes, the majority of the proposal was given the congregation's credentials and 44 Mr. Pero Skopljak was elected deputy chairman of the Croatian people and I ask Mr. Skopljak to take his place.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1131	Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't the first victory I've ever had in my life, but... the job I'm wearing on my back I'm going to use it as a man and I promise to all those benevolent ones that I will do as I swore. So, I will work on the good of my country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also my homeland. Thank you very much. Give it up. The next item of the agenda is
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1133	I have one objection to a mistake, and this shows that we should not have delayed the debate on the appointment of a temporary secretariat. On page 2 of the 1st session, we have under point 2 a verification of the mandates of elected MPs, and under point 1 in the verification of the mandate we have from the Federation of BiH, and under point 2 of the territory of Republika Srpska. That's what you should stay with. However, it was said that point 1 of Republika Srpska's coalition territory entered the record in this section, which speaks of elected MPs or certified mandates from the Federation of BiH territory, so I suggest that the second paragraph be transferred after point 1 from Federation of BiH territory, from Republika Srpska's territory to the coalition for the whole and democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina, be transferred under 2 because they were also elected from Republika Srpska's territory. So we will have as foreseen in the Constitution of the 28th MPs from the Federation's territory and 14 MPs from Republika Srpska's territory.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1134	Thank you. Any further objections to the record? 45 As far as I can tell, no one's picking up. I'm putting up the adoption logs. First, the minutes of the 1st session held on December 26th. Who is in favour of the adoption of the minutes with these amendments? Do you mind? Restraint? So this record was adopted unanimously. A log from the 2nd session held on the 10th. Who's in? Is he against the line? The abstentions? I note that the minutes of the 2nd session with those technical amendments have been unanimously adopted. This concludes the 2nd point of the agenda, and we move to the 3rd point of the agenda: 1.1.1997 to 30.10. 1998. For years, I call upon the agreed exhibitors before the Council of Ministers or exhibitors to take the floor. The report was presented to the assembly services in December, and subsequently submitted to the MPs so that the Council of Ministers' report on the work for that period had an opportunity to study and be prepared to participate in the debate on the report. So, I call, here is Mr Silajdžić, chairman of the Council of the Minstars. Here you go, Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1135	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Presidency, we have delivered a report to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but allow me to highlight in a few sentences some parts of the report, counting on Mr Tomić's chairman and that the resolution ministers are present here and that we are ready to answer questions and remarks, so we believe that the report was delivered on time, the report has been discussed at the session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and as such supported. We, of course, expect this House to accept the Council of Ministers' report because they are obliged to submit at least once a year a report to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, or the BiH House of Representatives. So, I would like to single out first, the fact that the work of the Council of Ministers took place with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other laws and documents establishing the powers of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Furthermore, that 18 draft laws have been laid down in this period, two draft laws are in the process of considering and agreeing. 46 36 sublegislative acts were adopted, and 13 sublegislative acts brought by the ministries in accordance with their powers, 31 interstate agreements, 15 memos, 14 contracts, 5 notes, and one protocol were considered. To make 33 decisions from different areas and one instruction, individual decisions were made, or agreed on a total of 29 appointments, or appointments. 32 information and five letters from international organisations on which the relevant conclusions have been drawn have been discussed. If you'll allow me to make one general remark here. The Council of Ministers worked under circumstances that you're mostly familiar with. I would draw out of these circumstances a particular fact that the Council of Ministers acted in a political vacuum, that there was no consensus in Parliament, that Parliament could not meet regularly, I want to say that the Council of Ministers fell and that decision which should not only be in the Council of Ministers' authority is a political decision. So, in the absence of working in parliament, the Council of Ministers had to act as it had acted, it took over the fact that the Commission was not working, that clubs do not agree with each other, that MPs are not in constant contact, and that, of course, there are different political opinions in this paragraph. So we were in a position to assume responsibility and political bargaining. Each Council of Ministers and each Government is of course ready to establish proposals or draft a law if there is a basic agreement in Parliament. We worked very often in a situation where we did not have this consensus and therefore, I underline that very often the responsibility of the basic political agreement fell on the Council of Ministers. We were working under conditions too, when the whole Dayton Agreement was coming to life. The Council of Ministers has broken things that would otherwise otherwise not normally come into order in a regulated system or have been the powers of the Council of Ministers. We acted the way we ate in the situation she was. At first, it was very difficult to say, so we agreed whether one law should be passed or not first of all, that is the political agreement. It's a law of some kind, whether it's the law or the principle of whether it's a law at all, or not you'll admit it's one job that's primarily a political nature that breaks the interpretation of the Dayton Agreement as a whole. At some point, we had to interpret or negotiate with the help of the international community, and we achieved the result that is ahead of you. So international communities, in accordance with the powers of the High Representative and the Office of the High Representative, have. The result, given the circumstances, is good at least in our assessment, so in the Council of Ministers' assessment, I am now speaking before us of the present Mr. Vice President and Ministers. We believe that in the situation as it is, we have achieved one result that we consider to be a good result. We expect the report to be adopted, above all, by the Council, which will be formed today or soon, that it will have full Parliament's support and that it will have more ready political decisions based on which this council will be able to act more efficiently, faster and better. So, one of the full weights of the political agreement, the interpretation, the provisions of the Dayton Constitution, will not fall short on the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers was ready to accept Parliament's decisions, especially and of course when they are consensual 47 of nature. In this mandate that we had, unfortunately there was no such thing, and therefore, among other things, we believe that this result is good, given that we had to break through the ice in many areas, that we had to negotiate even when the arrangements at other levels were not. I propose, therefore, this report is accepted and, of course, here we are members of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Assistants, Deputys. They are at our disposal to plead or explain in areas, of course, what the Members of Parliament are asking of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1136	Do any of the other members of the Council of Ministers want to take a word? Unless I open the debate, any parliamentary questions of suggestion, objections. Mrs. Muminagić, then Mr. Čaršimanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1137	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the obligation to submit the Council of Ministers' reports to the Parliamentary Assembly has been established by the Constitution of BiH and we are here fulfilling the constitutional obligation. Let me Podsjetić you that it's Article 5. The constitution under point 4 and not the 5th, as defined in this decision, that the BiH presidency will appoint the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and that the Council of Ministers will appoint ministers and their deputies and that they will all take office after the approval of the House of Representatives. The chairman and ministers together form the Council of Ministers, and I stress that they are responsible for implementing BiH's policies and decisions in the areas referred to in the Constitution, it is the whole 3 members to submit a report to the Parliamentary Assembly, including at least once a year reviewing the BiH expenditure reports. I read these constitutional provisions to make some observations of SDP BiH MPs and the Social Democrats over the Council of Ministers' report. 1.In the title of the report it was indicated that the report was submitted for the period 1.1.1997 to 30.10.1998. since the appointment of the Council of Ministers, which means that in the period of now more than two years, the Council of Ministers has submitted a report for the first time. We of the SDP believe that this practice is not acceptable and that we must correct it in our work. I can accept that this has also been due to difficulties in the work of parliament but we need to correct this practice, especially when we have a vision of the situation in the areas in which BiH is responsible, as states. We therefore propose that the House of Representatives, in its work programme, establish the obligation of the Council of Ministers to continuously and at least every 6 months report to the Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of the established policy or enforcement of adopted laws and other acts, as well as on the situation in the areas within the jurisdiction of the BiH state. In this way, we could take additional measures in good time and adopt additional regulations that would allow them to be implemented where this is wrong. We believe that this is what the citizens of BiH expect from us, the ones who chose us. Other from the text of the report other than the number of sessions held, the number of proposed laws and other regulations as well as the number of educated bodies and services, it is difficult to see the functioning of the Council as a single authority. I stress as a single authority, we hope that this report is common, it is not seen how co-operation with entity governments took place to realise the established policy of BiH's competence. I will napomenuće that in the Peace Implementation Programme adopted at the Madrid Conference, the Peace Implementation Council claimed that joint institutions do not function properly and that their co-operation with entities is poor. According to our knowledge of this finding, they stand entirely. We assume that one of the essential reasons is the very way of structuring the Council of Ministers with two co-chairs and 48 of the chairmanial solution which we in the SDP consider to be incompatible with the Constitution and which we did not accept when the law was passed or we can accept it in the future. Both we and BiH are witnesses that such a solution did not allow the Council of Ministers to function effectively, and now we have a situation that Mr. Boro Bosić has left the session as one of the co-chairs. 2. We are therefore in favour of a constitutional solution, i.e. the appointment of the Council of Ministers chairman, as well as for the reorganisation of the Council of Ministers which will enable its more efficient work. To that end, we propose that this Parliament be put on the agenda of the proposed Council of Ministers which is already in the process, if my Bog is not already at the next session. 3.I Ponović that under the Constitution, the Council of Ministers is responsible for implementing policies and decisions in a series of key areas listed by the Constitution, such as foreign policy, foreign trade policy, customs policy, financing of BiH institutions, international obligations, issue of immigration, refugees and asylum, etc. I don't want to count it all. When parts of the Report are carefully read, according to certain miniatures, they cannot be avoided from the impression that their activity was mainly focused on organisational issues, on legislative and accompanying activities under the laws, preparation of donor conferences, negotiations, agreements and co-operation with international financial and other international institutions. We believe that a large amount of work has been done and in the first phase of the work of the Council of Ministers, such activity could be understood, however, given that two years later, two years later and two years later, more engagement and better organisation should be felt in the effective implementation of the laws adopted and co-operation with entity governments on this plan, i.e. at the implementation of the laws adopted, as part of the laws adopted are implemented by entity bodies etc. All the way to Canton and County. It is obvious that these activities were not also largely based on the activities of the Office of the High Representative and other bodies and organisations of the international community. The example of law enforcement in the customs area is eclectic, best confirmed by this finding. While we have only indicated in this report that two laws on customs policy have been passed, one customs tariff law, until yesterday's newspaper beats us in the eye of the title “teas with customs”. We believe that this report must have indicated the state of play of several of these key areas in order to reach the conclusion that we must take further. 4.We should have had a report on the execution of the Budget for the same period in 1998 for which the Report is submitted. I know that it could not be done for the whole of 1998, so that this Parliamentary Assembly, with the appointment of the new Council of Ministers, would have insight into the problem of achieving income and insight into the real possibilities of financing BiH institutions and other commitments, since in the text of the Report on the budget nothing is said about it and there was an obligation to deliver the report as well. It could be covered with this text of the report with this information we're talking about. I want to believe it's because there's no problem, but it's good to know if there are any. All forwards listed us delegates from SDP and SD and says a colleague from the NHI does not give us the opportunity to support this Report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1138	Thank you. Mr. Čaršimanović. And let Mr. Jahić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1139	Dear MPs, gentlemen of the chairman. 49 Today we have received the agenda of the Council of Ministers' report, and therefore we need to decide whether or not we will accept it. To assess, we need standards. In this situation that we have today, it seems to me that it would be difficult to agree on the criteria, but hopefully, I hope that we will all agree on one criterion, and that is how far we are from implementing the Dayton Agreement. Based on this report, it can certainly be determined that we are not at the beginning. But it can also be realized that we are far from the end. One of the Council of Ministers' obligations was to ensure the functioning of joint institutions, their financing and possible reconstruction. We see from the report that a shift has been made in certain institutions, in the field of civil aviation, in the field of telecommunications, in the field of statistics, in co-operation with Interpol. There we have established certain bodies somewhere on a satisfactory level, somewhere insufficient. However, the question arises and how many bodies have worked, we have civilian aviation but we still have no control over the sky, we have the Telecommunications Act adopted, the Council of Ministers passed it on 1.2 this year when it was an obligation to apply code 387 to BiH but we still do not have it. In addition, other institutions that are important for the functioning of a state that should be called state and I believe that all known White Paper initiatives have been established and told what institutions and in what form we need them. I would also like to know the situation in relation to this initiative and the position of the OHR as it thinks of that initiative. However, I think that the step that has been taken in these two years is a step that gives us optimism regardless of all these things that are in place and I think that this report should be accepted, but also that things would happen better in the future, I think that the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is necessary and that it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to establish themselves under the Constitution of BiH. It supports the initiative of a colleague who previously stated that in this case it is necessary to consider the constitution and keonstruction of the Council of Ministers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1140	Thank you, Mr. Jahić, and let Branković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1141	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President. I would like to support the exposés we have heard from the Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, as well as the report in general, with the observation that the report does not contain anything that we could characterise as a proposal for measures for more effective work or more effective functioning of the Council of Ministers, which I again believe is possible in some elements of the work programme to be presented in the next part of this agenda. What I would like to focus briefly on is the fact that we can be satisfied with the good part of the work that has been done in the report ahead of us, although we must conclude that there are areas where the Council of Ministers must work more effectively and I think I share the opinion of most Members to have a whole series of areas where the Council of Ministers could be given significant objections which raises issues of analysis of the overall context of the political context of the functioning of the Council and which is something that has already been discussed by the co-chair. I would only be apostrophe of the need to form the current constitutional competencies of the Council of Ministers through a number of ministries as soon as possible, in a way that the vijeć of Ministers can work much more effectively. I don't think it's even close to the mind that the particular ministry, here we're talking about the civil affairs ministry and 50 communications must treat such a colorful aspect of different areas such as transport, communication, the immigration budget, emigration, asylum, refugees, international law, inter-entity law and a number of other areas which, I believe, because of the bulkiness, cannot be adequately and efficiently treated and to achieve the results this home would like to see at the end of the term of office of this BiH state executive body. Therefore, my proposal would be to update the issue of the Council of Ministers' reorganisation as soon as possible in a way that sets up the Council of Ministers with a number of ministries on which the existence of an initiative which, in my opinion, has been unjustly left without realisation during this period and, of course, on that plan, representatives of the international community and the Office of the High Representatives can make their full contribution. I would also like to stress that, in my court, this does not necessarily mean extending the number of ministries within the Council of Ministers certainly does not mean any such words of centralisation, nor would this solution be at the expense of power, or what is in the power of the entity, and it is therefore clear that this solution would, in fact, aim primarily to increase the efficiency of the Council of Ministers, which I think is the goal that all MPs of this House should pursue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1142	Thank you. Mr. Branković, let Divković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1143	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will first of all say that today's two facts cheer me and actually show that the institutions of BiH and according to the Dayton Constitution are beginning to function. That beginning of our session, which in some ways resulted in a slightly unpleasant scene of leaving the session of part of the parliament of this country, is actually saying that BiH's constitution is being read in this country, and it is becoming an inevitable fact in which attitudes are taking place in relation to which behaviour is being determined, and I expect that the principle of respect of the BiH Constitution will be consistent with other exclusive powers that BiH institutions have. The other thing that I am looking forward to today is this very report on the work of the Council of Ministers because it is also one fact that will certainly be a more frequent and common phenomenon in our lives, because this report is a very important institution in BiH that also has its exclusive areas according to the Constitution. Like any other thing, this Council of Ministers report can be viewed on two sides depending on the prism through which it is observed, whether we want to favour it or want to observe it in an enigative way. In any case, there are elements for each other, however, I am in favour of watching him on the other side favouring this report, i.e. the process of establishing BiH institutions. Why am I saying that? We should first of all bear in mind that this Council of Ministers has passed the period of constitution of the institution, starting with the problems of law-making, systematization, filling the place in these ministries, and then should be aware of the infrastructure in which the people in the Council of Ministers worked, I have communicated a lot with them in my work, and I really know how hard it was to work in these ministries because they had no joint headquarters, which is normal for one such institution to be effective. After all, it was the period of birth of the institution and because of everything called the habitation of the state of BiH, which was designed by the Dayton Constitution and there was an imbalance in the initiative in the Council of Ministers' work on the adoption and work on the harmonisation of basic laws and legal acts that should be confirmed by this home. That's why I think it's a big deal that there's a report, that the report has a lot of pages filled up to write competitive results of what's been done because it's really a big shift, so we have something to discuss. Therefore, I would not say much about 51 details, but it is important to note, in addition to the number of laws and sublegal acts that have been passed, it is important to mention that work has been done through this institution and around the return of 180,000 refugees to this country. It is not negligible that a 214,000 foreign direct investment has been recorded through the Council of Ministers. So these are all indications that the Council of Ministers should be a strong institution, normally in accordance with the powers of what are the powers under aneks 4. This report should in any case be based and our commentary on this report to the new composition of the Council of Ministers, we, as Parliament, point out and try to help where priorities are located. In any case, what was observed under the PO report of the Council of Ministers is two basic things, two mechanisms that need to give new quality of work to the Council. First of all, it is a new law on the Council of Ministers, so its reorganisation, because the current ministries are quite unnatural conglomerates that cannot function effectively and secondly, probably within that law, are the mechanisms and procedures of the work of the minister, in which what we have seen is some kind of imbalance of the initiative would not be a matter of personal political determination rather than a guarantee of the efficiency of the work of the council. In any case, and on the basis of exclusive powers for state institutions, the time to come should probably be devoted to the legal arrangement, namely the adoption of regulatory and, above all, the regulation of international, inter-entity traffic in the area of border control and the establishment of border services or border police, as provided for by the Madrid Conference, then the area of the judiciary, the judiciary, and the giving of concessions, because the award of concessions is nevertheless a matter concerning a territory, therefore a state. Therefore, I would not discuss whether this report should be accepted or not, in any case, accepted by the report, and I think that in the current Council of Ministers Act there is one indeterminate because the Council of Ministers is obliged to submit a report to Parliament, but Article 35 of this law says that other details of the relationship between the Council of Ministers and Parliament are regulated by the Rules of Procedure, which means a statement of acceptance or non-acceptance of the report, so that we use this to give ourselves and Parliament an observation, and I will also assign you to the procedure, i.e. these Rules of Procedures as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1144	Here you go, Mr. Divković, and let Tokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1145	Ladies and gentlemen, as well as the predecessors, I welcome first of all the fact that we have the opportunity to discuss the report and that the very fact that we have a report on this House of Parliament is positive, it is also a positive fact for me that in this report, suss substances are given the same powers as certain ministries have given it. However, for us new representatives of this house, it is very difficult to make known to me that I accept the report for the simple reason that I do not know what the plan was, so this report would be logical to go according to the planned activities, so that all MPs here compare what was planned, what was done, that this expression of these and those was not realized and that, possibly, the future plan is understood on these assumptions. It doesn't exist, I don't know what the reason is, maybe the plan of the explicity didn't exist, but it's in favor of the next item of the agenda that goes right behind this one, and it's just about planning for the new Council of Ministers to follow. 52 Likewise, the fact is that we are very often in public, and here we are discussing the realization of the conclusions of the international conferences in which we have committed ourselves in a certain way that we will realize within certain deadlines, and I do not see in this report this aspect of realisation either means these international obligations, or what we have not objectively realised. These are the reasons why it can happen that the Border Marking Commission seems to me to be missing on the 10th, it should be in November o.g. to adopt a plan for 1998, so if it stands, I think this is a printing mistake, etc. that it is not about 1999, which must be admitted absurdly. So, I ask you and the purpose of my date here is that in the next point of the agenda when we program a plan not to be an exposé, but we have a Madrid conference we have very defined deadlines, defined tasks and that, in accordance with these precisely defined deadlines and tasks, we plan the activities of both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, and then in the course of these activities, we will look for ways, both possible misunderstandings, possible mutually incompatible opinions to agree. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1146	Thank you, Mr. Tokić, and let Mr. Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1147	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, MPs, the opening statement discusses obstacles and they are quite realistic and based on the political reality of functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, however, and obstacles in the Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament, stems from the same political concepts of the same political parties that form the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council. I'm afraid by mingling in this sla here, with formulations, so if you want even ifracially that we have a report a significant progress has been made, we're not at first, we're going to reduce the harsh reality that objectively stands when we get out. The situation in this country, regardless of whether we adopted or not today, is not such that with optimism we could accept the report with the intention of continuing the same, and I fear that in the tone, even in the humane solutions, there are these tendencies. They've been good for two years, so who can do two more years like this? I'm just gonna name one area. The return of refugees and exiled, it is the responsibility of central institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, if we can be satisfied then let's raise our hands for the report. We can name a Madrid conference or any international conference. Ratings in these international conferences and at them are unequivocally the best assessments of the Council of Ministers' functioning. The picture given by the Council of Ministers in international institutions and not very close to us corresponded to what we want Bosnia and Herzegovina to look like, just remember the departure of the Council of Ministers delegation to Sweden, or the most different trends in the international representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in which there was not an objectively much in common, that there was nothing in common. At the same time, it is obvious that it is preparing for the next item of the agenda to continue on the same path, is not a problem in the organisation of the Council of Ministers, nothing will change when the number of members of the Council of Ministers is increased on this political concept, and the political concept of the Council of Ministers was the political concept of national exclusion, or of one nationality, can not even be made beautiful by beautiful stories, the Party for BiH, the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, when these delegations are absolutely one-national, when no one still thinks that there are 53 non-people who can enter Bosnia and Herzegovina at all, because here is this powerful CD coalition delegation for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1148	Please keep an eye on the agenda, I'm warning you there's a report on the work of the Council of Ministers on the agenda. The need for a political assessment of the circumstances, the need for a national or non-national, international organisation, is a completely different topic, therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, I warn that the report on the work of the Council of Ministers is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1149	I can have an understanding of your impediment, I'm talking about the political concept on which the Council of Ministers acts and what the issue is. In order to explain this to you, I must say that, individually, all these people are better than their political concepts, individually outside the Council of Ministers outside this room, and what consensus can be put in place, but put into the political concepts that I'm explaining right now, they don't have a chance. Even a huge number of people who tried in the last phase of their activities at the Council of Ministers to do their job. Those who have begun their work unfortunately are being suppressed by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1150	Without any disturbance, I beg you and call you in time for a report, say something concrete, and suggest something about the work of the Council of Ministers and leave it for a political need.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1151	Mr. Chairman, I kindly ask you, if the Council of Ministers, the work of the Council of Ministers in two years is not a political issue, then there really is no other political issue, and if you want Parliament and it is that political views are also being expressed on the work of the Council of Ministers. I'm asking you to use your office as chairman most seriously today, rather than let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1152	You cannot end this way, I call you specifically on a report on the work of the Council of Ministers, proposals, suggestions you know what should be done, what could, if you don't already know what it is, what should be done, what would be useful to do, what was failed to do, so concretely clear things, a description of the political environment and political relations is for the political you, so I have to run this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1153	If you won't interrupt me, I'd keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1154	If you keep that up, I'll interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1155	You remind me of a journalist with pasti Milka Čerimidžić, if you allow me the next three minutes, I would speak and allow me, you probably in your political 54 appearance to dictate someone's discussion, you will certainly not dictate to me, and I have no intention of completing my discussion and I ask the co-chair, or deputy to help me finish my experience. I am talking about the essence of the problem, I am talking about the problem of how these concepts are formed by the Council of Ministers on unilateral exclusions and the next Council of Ministers will not function better, and I think that there is a need to improve the elements and that no phraseology of concrete suggestions, a concrete suggestion is that people in the Council of Ministers are appointed by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by abilities, by one multinational criterion and by a concept that will not reflect and oppose one nation to another. because you have a situation in which the objective Council of Ministers has functioned in a way that we can recapitulate or co-chair, in their political action they have not felt any responsibility to the citizens of other peoples or to the entire majority of Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory. I don't remember when Boro Bosić talked and talked in his remarks about the problems of the people of Zenica, as I don't remember, about the problems of the people of Zenica, like I don't remember when Mr Silajdžić was talking about the problems of the refugees from Sarajevo who are now located, and I'm saying there's no progress, there's no progress, as long as that thing is diametrically unversible. Until a different political concept or chip is inserted into everyone's head is a problem, probably even here on the edge of voting machines, we will adopt a report, just trying to explain that we have done nothing, here we can say, that the Council of Ministers has made significant progress, but hundreds of thousands of refugees who have not returned us to their homes private assets that are being disrespected, an increasing country's debt we have, poor international representation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, non-consistent international policy, non-functioning customs will not be resolved to such a problem. For this reason, I call on the future Council of Ministers to be defined on a completely different political concept, I think that this effort must be made, and it will not be made by logic, if at this moment you exclusively think that the aim of this assembly home is competition. You've got the parliamentary majority, you've had responsibility for this country in the last term of office, you'll also have in the next term of office, it's mine to try to show you that time is running out, and in this context I would point out a few dramatic situations that should be imagined. The most dynamic category of the population has to do with the work of the Council of Ministers, are students, at the University of Banja Luka today more than 95% of Serbian national students, today in multiethnic Sarajevo, studying more than 90% of Bosniak nationality students, all of which is, among other things, the consequence of the concept on which members of the Council of Ministers acted, did not question anything else, established their responsibility in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and of those interests, I wanted to point out that. Ponović, the problem isn't in people the problem is in the political concept, if we don't figure it out today we're certainly not going anywhere further we're going to raise our hands and try to explain on the street how nice we are. We're not comfortable. We have not made the progress we are obliged to make towards the citizens, the peoples, including you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1156	Thank you, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1157	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, 55 My predecessor mentioned chips a while ago, where luck would have been if generations in human terms changed as fast as modern chips were changing, until about ten years ago, a generation of chips lasted three years, and now it's reduced to a little less than a year's work. That's what I've been writing about lately, and the book's about to come out. So we can't even wish that human generations change so quickly. I support many of my colleaguesTokić grades, but I also come from the reality in which we are. I ask the question really - whether more could be done in the consolidation of political forces in both the Serb republic and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and could be done more than is written here. It probably is, but we need to ask the question of how much we have contributed to it ourselves. It would be very honest with us, and there are a lot of us sitting in this council right now, and we were sitting in the past, that we also analyzed our work report a little bit more, so that we asked the question very honestly and colleague Tokić who had previously been in opposition, and I who was in opposition, which is why we allowed the Office of the High Representative to adopt the five laws that this Council of Ministers which is now on the wallpaper, still brought the current and exceeded the Council, and we couldn't even bring it into line. I don't want to praise the Council of Ministers with this, but I just want to say that there really are real political circumstances that they've been doing very difficult, and when I look at it, I think it's done a lot. The second is the drinking of further work, whether in this consolidation the forces are incapacitated obviously among us here with our voting machine changing those chips, whether something is going to fix. I would only draw attention to the discussions of fellow MPs, the predecessors who sought the causes of potentially insufficient and insufficient results of the Council of Ministers' work which they did not mention in their report at all, nor did the co-chair mention it earlier. Apparently, and here some people want to get their ideas through, about what the Council of Ministers should look like, so here's what they're using this opportunity. This is not on the agenda, the Council of Ministers' organisation, is not on the agenda today, today is on the agenda of this ministerial council's report as it was. I personally think that all the possibilities and such a ministerial advice as it is concisely not exhausted, only when they are exhausted, then we can put on the agenda its reconstruction, but I would appeal to all of you, to our responsibility, our responsibility is related to the Dayton Agreement, the Dayton Agreement must be taken as a matter of trust, only when we exhaust all the opportunities it provides, then we can talk about its upgrades and changes and improvements. And until then, until we've exhausted these possibilities, and we're looking for change, I'm going to take it as dishonesty and as imposing something that fits only one side. We can put here both these and such grudges on the form of this report, whether it's well done or not, I'd like to note that globally I can accept a report like this, make one remark. This report shows that contacts with a number of countries in the world have been established, and it is easy to see that these contacts are the least established with those countries with which they were to be established to the greatest extent, which is Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This also gives us the Dayton Agreement, and it points to that, that is the issue in the long term, that is the issue in the long term, and that is the question of the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I assure you. 56 We shall have to forget some of the things of the past, and if we have too much fun in the past, I fear we shall not lose the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1158	Thank you. Would any other MPs like to take part in the debate on the presented report? I, as far as I can tell, there are no registered debaters and I ask the MPs, or I call on the gentleman, please welcome Neven Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1159	Ladies and gentlemen, honored MPs, I will take this opportunity to really thank you, first of all, everyone in the military debate, to know that the report on the work of the Council of Ministers has been discussed studioically, to all those who have given support to the Council of Ministers' work, because in these two years, after our humble assessment within the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers has done nothing. It's in two words, probably contained all of our struggles, and in which we've had in the last two years to bring the Council of Ministers and its infrastructure to life. I am pleased to show that in the last half of the year, to return a brief retrospective, the Council of Ministers established the basis for the interim decision of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the law has just been passed on our insistence, it was not in a quick start package which was then placed here on the proposal of the Office of the High Representative, but here by the Council of Ministers was adopted and published only at the end of the ninth month when the Council practically entered into reconstruction of the institutions of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in their transformation in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, as Mr Silajdžić and I mentioned, because of the blockade of Parliament's work which had one principle at the time, and these colleagues who were in the past know very well, that what was agreed on by the Council of Ministers is going to parliament, so Parliament did not have this function of the correction that we are hearing today, from which we will also make all these remarks that will be installed, that is to say, the new council of ministers, and with more frequent discussions, we will have two functions. Publicity and transparency of work and the Council of Ministers and Ministries and the complete infrastructure of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I will take this opportunity to say a few words to some of the drinkings that are open here, and above all, the Council of Ministers has, in the last half of the year, since the sixth month, when Budget Bosnia and Herzegovina finally functioned, when we began to fill the ministries in line with the new organisation and structure, so until the elections, unfortunately I have to say that the elections have created a single break that will certainly reflect a delay in the work of the Council of Ministers. However, that the Council of Ministers acted as one authority, however, our underlying problem in the work is the issue of accommodation of the Council of Ministers and of its position, also treated by the bonski and Madrid documents. It is now something that will contribute to the further reviving of institutions and their operationalisation, and in this respect, the Council of Ministers is also preparing the appropriate acts to be offered to this parliament. One of the things we consider to have affected the functioning of the Council of Ministers was the slow process of separation in competence between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and the Council of Ministers. 57 The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina is responsible for the issues of the Slovenian policy, and the Council of Ministers is to say the segment in this, and we have reached this agreement with the Presidency and then a series of international agreements and memorandums have been signed under one procedure that has become, after that, clear. Also, the question of the calculation that was mentioned here -- it's true. However, in the Constitution, the Presidency is what is proposed by the Budget and the Council of Ministers, because of this break that took place on Christmas and other holidays that were, will prepare a report on the work that the Bureau will submit to the Presidency and the Presidency in accordance with the Constitution, together with the new Budget for next year, will propose it. Also, one of the important issues that, when the Work Report is important to mention, the issue of co-operation with entity governments is mentioned here. Unfortunately, I must say that no meeting has been held, either by one of the chairman or by the three of us with the prime ministers of the entity, is necessary because the implementation of certain laws has its infrastructure at the level of the entities. When it comes to customs policy, the Council of Ministers has completed its part of the work, passed the Law, published the Law neatly, adopted the Customs Tariff, so the procedure is to implement it in entities and not to talk about a number of other examples. I mention this because it is really one thing that, in further work on the work of the Council of Ministers and the implementation of this Parliament's Work Programme, which will also be adopted, will be very important. When it comes to the issue of relations with the Republic of Croatia and Yugoslavia in this context, the Council of Ministers has drawn moves from the Foreign Minister to Belgrade, a number of interim agreements have been signed -- however, these issues remain in the core foreign policy management clause in the presidency's jurisdiction and a further move should be taken by the Presidency, and the Council of Ministers is ready to follow its infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1160	We heard the opening remarks on the report, we also heard this clarification by Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1161	Not getting into the nature of the replica, I'm just gonna say this. I specifically mentioned Belgrade, because Bosnia and Herzegovina had no diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia, and this trip was in the area. With the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina has signed a number of international agreements, so in this context relations are in a more advanced age, which is not parallel and symmetric due to failure to achieve, above all, diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia. Thank you. I call on MPs, therefore, after hearing clarifications and discussions which, of course, the Council of Ministers will have in mind - therefore, I call on MPs to make known whether they accept the report submitted or not. Please, who's in favor of accepting the submitted report, raise your hand. 20 MPs voted to accept the report. Who's against accepting the report? Are there any abstentions? So, most of the votes, MPs accepted the report with 20 votes in favour and 8 abstentions, without votes against. Thank you. I find that this concludes the third item of the agenda. 58 We move to the fourth item of the agenda: Under point (a) the programme of work of the Co-chairing Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is scheduled and I call on the co-chair to present their exposés. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1163	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will now, if you allow me, read the Programme Framework for the Action of the Council of Ministers, which has been agreed, hoping of course that you have all received this text. I hope, Mr. Chairman, this text is being sent to you -- right? [[We didn't get the text - speaking from the place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1164	Today, the session is divided.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1165	I hope that we are all taking the terms within which we are working, i.e. the fact that Parliament is also meeting in the way the Council of Ministers is meeting. Of course, it works in line with the general situation. So, the Dayton Peace Agreement, the Peace Implementation Council Declaration adopted in Madrid on 16 December 1998, together with aneks, which form an integral part, the Law on the Council of Ministers and ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a fundamental orientation for all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- entity institutions and institutions at local level and other institutions. The framework also includes activities, tasks and objectives of the Council of Ministers' action during 1999 and 2000. This means that the headquarters of the Council of Ministers and the competent ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the coming period should be focused on the following, in our opinion... The Dayton Peace Agreement, the Council Declaration of Peace Implementation, adopted in Madrid on 16 December 1998, together with aneks which forms an integral part of it, the Law on the Council of Ministers and ministries of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a fundamental orientation for the operation of all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, entity institutions, institutions at local level, as well as organisations and institutions of the international community involved in the peace process. The framework also included activities, tasks and objectives of the BiH Council of Ministers' action during 1999 and 2000. Years. This means that the focus of the work of the Council of Ministers and the competent institutions of the BiH Ministry, in the coming period, should be on • creating conditions for the accelerated return of refugees and displaced persons, and in particular on the establishment of legal and administrative conditions that will further encourage the return, as well as 59 elimination of obstacles that make it difficult to return, taking into account all possibilities provided for by the Dayton Agreement. In this regard, the Council of Ministers' activities in other areas that are closely linked to the return, such as economic recovery and the building of a positive legal environment in BiH; • establishing the rule of law and supporting the establishment of an independent judicial system, as one of the tasks on which the BiH Council of Ministers should contribute. In addition to other obligations in this area, the Council of Ministers should engage in the rapid adoption of law on judicial institutions at the state level, as well as the creation of other assumptions for the establishment and functioning of these institutions; • strengthening the efficiency of the BiH institutions in 8 enforcement of their constitutional powers and obligations arising from the peace agreement. In this context, it is a special obligation for the Council of Ministers to improve its own efficiency, to develop appropriate co-operation with other institutions, and especially with the BiH Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well as with the High Representative's Office and the relevant organisations and institutions of the international community. In order to qualify for more effective action, it is necessary to prepare laws on amendments and additions to the relevant laws on the Council of Ministers and ministries, in accordance with the views and deadlines of the Madrid Declaration. It is also a priority to prepare laws on other institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are necessary for the normal functioning of the state and for the exercise of its rights and obligations in the international community. • Realising tasks in economic recovery and reform of the economic system, which are in the power of the Council of Ministers. In this respect, priority should be given to measures for the rapid and consistent implementation of the State Law on the privatisation of companies and banks, in order to encourage and accelerate the overall privatisation process, while eliminating illegal phenomena such as national and other discrimination in the privatisation process, and the occurrence of illegal transfer of ownership. It is necessary to start the Privatisation Commission established by the High Representative without delay, with which the Council of Ministers will achieve full co-operation. The special obligation of the Council of Ministers is to direct economic recovery and reconstruction of the economic system, measures of its jurisdiction, towards reintegration and full freedom of movement of goods of services and capital, and to encourage and protect domestic production. The Council of Ministers will initiate the process of BiH's inclusion in the World Trade Organisation as an observer and then as a full member. The Council of Ministers, with appropriate co-operation with entities, will carry out appropriate preparations for the upcoming donor conference; • Support for further democratisation processes, and in particular the adoption of an electoral law which will be consistent with the essence of Annex III, IV and VII of the Peace Agreement, as well as the direct contribution of the Council of Ministers to media reform. In this context, the Council of Ministers should prepare appropriate laws and actively participate in the drafting of those laws prepared by other promoters; • Realising the strategy for the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into European integration, strengthening links with European institutions, strengthening peace, implementing economic and political reforms and establishing stability in BiH. The Council of Ministers will, within its competence, give initiatives to define the mandate and set priorities for the task of "Task Force" established by the EU Declaration of Specific Relations with BiH. • Improving relations with neighbouring countries including special relations foreseen by the Dayton Agreement and other subregion states. In this 60 context, active co-operation with Croatia will continue to be achieved to identify the interstate border, improve economic co-operation, address property-legislative relations and other issues of importance for the two countries. Under its responsibilities, the Council of Ministers will act to establish diplomatic relations with the SR Yugoslavia and open negotiations on economic co-operation, as well as co-operation in other areas, including the identification of the interstate border. The Council of Ministers will also take the necessary steps to further develop relations and improve co-operation with Slovenia and Macedonia, as well as with other countries in the subregion. • Contribution to the implementation of established obligations on military issues and security issues within those competences held by the Council of Ministers in those areas. In this respect, it is the priority of the Council of Ministers to urgently approach the preparation and adoption of rules on the protection of the state border of BiH, in line with the guidelines and deadlines of the Madrid Declaration; • On the issue of the Brcko Council of Ministers, BiH will step up contacts and co-operation with the arbitration panel and all relevant international factors, providing the necessary information, data, assistance and anything else necessary to find the appropriate solution and to ensure that this solution is effectively and fully implemented. • The Council of Ministers will continue to participate actively in resolving the issue of the succession of former SFRY, including the adoption of regulations and the provision of effective access to all records and data relevant for the resolution of this problem. • Strengthening international support for civil implementation of the Mirovngo Agreement, which can make a significant contribution to the Council of Ministers through its own cooperative relationship with the High Representative and the OHR, by improving co-operation with SFOR and the IPTF, by supporting UNHCR activities in BiH and further improving co-operation with the OSCE in the realisation of the mission in BiH. II In the abovementioned points, the focus of the Council of Ministers' action was indicated during its term of office in 1999. And in 2000. In order to fulfil its constitutional competences and to successfully implement the objectives resulting from the Madrid Declaration, the Council of Ministers must be qualified for its role, which means its reconstruction in the direction of establishing the necessary resolution ministries and completing the Council of Ministers' composition. It takes a certain time – no longer than three months, but also during that time the Council of Ministers should not be limited to internal relations only. In short, after inauguration, the Council of Ministers must not deal exclusively with itself. For this reason, it is necessary to define a number of priority tasks that the Council of Ministers will carry out in the first three months of its term of office, and in particular • prepare appropriate laws on those to be put in place by the necessary state ministries and to complete the Council of Ministers' composition. In the same period, the laws adopted should implement the appropriate reorganisation of the ministries and reconstruction of the personal composition of the Council of Ministers; • prepare the necessary laws and implementing regulations on all individual institutions that will operate at BiH level, in line with the solutions already mentioned in the legal opinion of the OHR. In the 1999 BiH budget, provide the funds needed to finance these institutions, carry out the necessary consultations and implement the appointments of officials to manage these institutions; 61 • prepare the necessary laws and implementing rules on the protection of the state border, in order to create the necessary conditions for this service to be established and able to perform its functions by October 1999 at the latest; • initiate the completion of the initial process of transformation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina diplomatic and consular network; • Define a specific programme of activities and measures of the Council of Ministers in the reconstruction of the country and reconstruction of the economic system. This programme lays down specific tasks under the powers of the Council of Ministers and Dynamics and realisation, with priority obligations relating to the privatisation process of enterprises and banks; • to prepare laws on judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to take all necessary steps to establish these institutions in the first and mid-term of 1999; • to put in the process of legislative projects already prepared in the respective ministries during the previous term; • to establish a full plan of work of the Council of Ministers, which will relate to the period of the current term of office, with precisely defined tasks in all areas where the Council of Ministers has constitutional powers and with the specified dynamics of carrying out those tasks. The Council of Ministers' work plan should be consistent with the Madrid Declaration. There are realistic assumptions that the Council of Ministers accept and implement this minimum three-month programme of its action. The only interference may be possible obstructions which are an expression of political options contrary to the Peace Agreement and the Madrid Declaration, as this programme is based solely on these documents. Therefore, the Council of Ministers should work very closely with the High Representative and his Office and conduct its activities transparently, so that any obstructions are avoided and eliminated. III In order to successfully implement its overall commitments in the current mandate, including priorities for the first three months, it is necessary that the Council of Ministers implements its working methods in advance, which implies in particular the following - the introduction of practices of regular consultation meetings between the two Co-chairs and the Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers with the presidents of the entity governments, in order to coordinate the overall activities undertaken by the Council of Ministers and the Governments of entities to achieve the objectives defined by the Madrid Declaration. It would be important for the practice of such agreements to also be established between state ministries and relevant ministries at entity level; - the formation of expert groups for the expert assistance of the Council of Ministers in the implementation of certain tasks identified by its programmes. These expert groups should be drawn up from the policy order of independent domestic and foreign experts; - the adoption of precise work plans in each state ministry, in order to clearly define tasks, deadlines and responsibilities in the exercise of competences belonging to ministries. These work plans should be consistent with the relevant programmes and plans of the Council of Ministers; - taking measures that officials in the services of the Council ofministers and state ministries are continuously trained to carry out operations effectively and effectively at 62 that have been deployed. The establishment of professional and efficient services in the Council of Ministers and Ministries means that the personal, under the rank of ministerial assistants, will be depolitised and that the existence of these officials depends solely on their expertise in the work of the IV Council of Ministers, has delivered its report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the work in the previous term. The report shows that despite the very difficult circumstances characterized by the past period, the Council of Ministers has achieved some results. This relates in particular to the preparation and adoption of laws establishing an essential legal framework in the exercise of national functions. For the next term of office, the programme orientation of the Council ofminar expresses the necessary continuity and seeks to use positive experiences and results from the Council of Ministers' work so far. Evaluating that in the next period, the overall situation and relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina will continue to change in a positive direction, the Programme Framework for the Action of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as well as the Work Plan for the first three months, have been defined quite ambitiously. Realisation of planned tasks will primarily depend on the skills and readiness of all members of the Council of Ministers to carry out their constitutional functions responsibly. Given that one of the aspirations will focus on legislative activity in the coming period, it is understandable that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Council of Ministers' work will depend on the co-operation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the dynamics of its work and the willingness of MPs to have constructive relations with the legislative projects and other proposals of the Council of Ministers. To this end, the Council of Ministers will be open to all initiatives coming from the Parliamentary Assembly. Successful implementation of the obligations ahead of the Council of Ministers has great importance for all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as numerous vital interests of all citizens are being realised in BiH institutions, including the BiH Council of Ministers. By achieving its constitutional role and the realisation of the tasks set, the Council of Ministers, with full responsibility, will take care of the principles of equality of citizens, the equal position of constituent peoples and the constitutional position of entities. On this basis, the Council of Ministers expects broad support for the Programme Framework of Action in the mandate that is just beginning. I mentioned the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for a certain period from 1 February to 30 April 1999 in this brief presentation or exhibition. The plan has not been agreed yet and the agreement, which we had with High Representative Mr. Šumaher - therefore, Mr. Mihajlović, Mr. Tomić and I, was agreed to consider this plan at the 1st session of the Council of Ministers and with the help of the Office of the High Representative to come up with a three-month plan and to begin with the work of the Council of Ministers in accordance with this Plan. I have this plan. That's my suggestion. I have to say, so it's not in line yet. I think there will be no fundamental changes, it is a very tight plan, given the fact that during the period of elections, as Mr Tomić mentioned, we were stopped in our work for several months. Simply, the election and it will be one of my proposals as... And it will be one of the proposals as a member of Parliament in the coming period that the time of the elections, or the date of the elections, will change and not be in September. We could achieve perhaps more that we just have election activities and all 63 of what goes on with it have not stopped in our plans and realised these plans. So, our detailed plan of dynamics per month can only be presented to this Parliament when this plan is agreed, so far as there are some that have been published at the end of the line, there remains one proposal and that proposal on my part. So, once we bring this detailed plan and dynamics into line, we will, of course, come out with that plan before the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1166	Thank you, Mr. Silajdžić. Mr. Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1167	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of course, you do not expect that there will be two opening presentations today, we have agreed this text, which Mr Silajdžić read, we have achieved a proper compromise, there has been a difference in seeing certain problems, but we have found a lot in common and what we have achieved, you have heard. You can't expect a concrete programme from us today, elaborated dynamically, what probably at the next session, which will offer you a new Council of Ministers - the Council of Ministers, so that this dynamic of lawmaking, which is extremely tight precisely because of this pause you heard about, hopes that we will accept this proposal, and that you will work on it. I am more concerned that you here in the Parliamentary Assembly will probably be busy with so many legislative projects that you will not be able to accept it in good time and in time, but I expect the Council of Ministers, in accordance with their capabilities, will surely propose to you a lot of these legal projects where you will have a lot of work to agree and to practically declare these laws. I expect, of course, your full co-operation and assistance to the Council of Ministers that your job, which is certainly large, responsible, is done in the way that BiH citizens expect it. I am sorry that there are no MPs here today who have left today's session, I expect that they will return very quickly to this Parliament and that we will all look together for some compromises and ask for the best solutions for this Parliament to work and in this way will be the best of your assistance and the Council of Ministers and others in the joint institutions in BiH, taking into account, of course, in the frameworks in which we operate, that is the Dayton Peace Agreement, that is the Law on the Labour of the Ministries, the Constitution of BiH, stressing that it is certainly important that it was established at the previous point that there is not enough coordination with the entity governments and the rest of the ministries, and we expect that in the coming period and that it will be operational. Because what is brought at BiH level, if not accepted in entities, then some of the problems we have had in the past. Furthermore, I expect a better political tolerance between all parliamentary groups and a lot of things, so there is also a need to do here among parliamentary groups in the Parliament itself more tolerance, I hope for once better, that the Council of Ministers will fill their next period with what it expects of him and this parliament, as well as the citizens of BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1168	Thank you. 64 So, we will open the debate -- possible questions from MPs about the exposés, and after that, exhibitors will answer some questions. Mr. Tokić answered, and Mr. Spahić is ready.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1169	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, esteeming the importance of this moment, the content of the exposé, I would like to request a 20-minute break on behalf of the group of opposition parliamentary political parties of the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democrats and the New Croatian Initiative, in order to be able to consult and take a position on this very important document and moment in the work of parliamentary life. I think we all need a break, given that far more insignificant things have made us pause, and this is a moment that requires serious consideration of the responsibility of all of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1170	So, a break at the request of the group, at 18.15 p.m. Break. The registered debater is Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1172	I did not apply for a break, but for two interventions regarding the proposal we heard from Mr Silajdžić, which concerns Parliament and Parliament's relationship and Parliament's relationship with the Council of Ministers. First of all, I find it very useful to discuss the Council of Ministers' Programme after the adoption of the Council's reports in the past period, because it creates a serious and consistent position of this state body, not only towards Parliament and the Presidency, but also towards the democratic public in BiH. And for this reason, I think it is very important that, in this context, given that there were many MPs who spoke about how Parliament reacted to the laws that came from the Council of Ministers and regarding the role of the High Representative, it was very important that we, in this interruption of work for the next three months when the process of harmonisation in the Council of Ministers with the High Representative also be clearly defined as the position of the Council of Ministers and the corresponding ministries with the Programme of Work of Parliament and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of BiH. I believe that this would make another quality step forward, which would allow the BiH Parliament's Work Programme and both homes, as well as the Council's Work Programme, to establish common dynamics and obligations, and then really strike a balance between the legislative and executive authorities in BiH. It would be for a change after two and a half years, the best indicator that BiH takes care of its core institutions, such as Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. That's the first proposal. To complement that initiative relating to coordination within the Council of Ministers and with OHR. Another proposal that would concern a whole new relationship with the democratic public in BiH and the world, the Council of Ministers itself, would show if two basic acts were to be carried out politically: firstly, that regular meetings of the BiH Parliament should, in the current activities of the Council of Ministers, place information on law enforcement and on the means of law enforcement throughout the BiH territory. In fact, it would be up to those institutions that count on building a democratic 65-decentralised state with full rights and equal rights of citizens and of all people in this country to see how equal all people are to one law and how protected they are in their rights and freedoms. I think that this three months, so your proposal for operational work would be very useful if we had a review of what's being done, whether it's customs laws, whether it's some other regulations. The third proposal concerns the nature and character of the Council's action in the coming period. I do not think there is a more competent place than the BiH Parliament to discuss the way the Council of Ministers acts and the proposal for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers in line with the amended Council of Ministers' Law. This means that I believe that the discussion that has been being held in recent months on the reconstruction of ministers should be passed on to parliamentary working bodies that have been verified today, and whose presidents or part of them have been elected and allowed in the constitutional and legal sense of the word discussion on the position and position of the Constitutional Law Council itself will be the Council of Ministers, ministers and its institutions. In this way, the BiH Parliament would literally start to operate for the first time in two years, not only through two homes, but would allow it to be in a permanent working session, and for this reason, I would like to launch an initiative in the budget for this coming year and for the year in which we are already in some way in the second month, to ensure not only that part of the funds relating to the execution of the BiH Budget to the functions of the Parliament itself, but also given the discussion we had, to ensure that one clear professionalisation of our college and their responsibilities for such difficult and painful work that will have to be brought into the process of harmonisation between parliamentary clubs and the different interests that will normally be intertwined when proposing these laws. I believe that this Parliament, in order to establish a legislative authority in BiH, must have such a professional relationship with its Council of Ministers, as the body deserves when it submits initiatives and that no delay could occur in the procedure between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, given the dynamics established, not only in the Madrid conference, but in the dark relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. And what seems important to me is that if today we cannot adopt an operational programme of work for the coming months, as I recall, we have been given the opportunity to declare by 15 February our own initiatives in relation to Parliament's work programme, it would be good for us to establish on the working bodies and on the College and among the MPs these principles of joint performance in relation to the dynamics of the implementation of these laws that are ahead of us and their realisation. For me, four laws are extremely important for the next three months and one general discussion at Parliament -- between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. First, a discussion on economic policy and social policy in BiH. And four laws: Refugee law, the Law on Immigration and Asylum and the Law on the Application of Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights, as well as a reconstruction that I have already said something about. I think BiH has a great chance of putting these four laws as a priority, including a discussion on economic and social policy in this coming period, in fact, to allow one normal realisation of life in BiH and to enable the real position of BiH in European and global integration, for which we have shown our intentions over the past years, and now we should in fact rely on our own country to do what we intend to do in the coming period. 66 So, I underline, perhaps the best opportunity that has been given to us today at the adoption of the report and what we have received as a proposal from Mr Silajdžij, is in the verification of one political will, which has come to terms both for the first and second points of our session today, which is that for the first time we seem to have the opportunity to speak rationally on behalf of the Council of Ministers, one or two presidents - the president who wants to draw attention to the interest that political arrangements and political will for BiH and for what is the fundamental basis of this Parliament and this Council of Ministers ensure in relations between these two bodies. For me, it is a very serious turnaround and if this were to be a good signal, it would remind me of a time in which it is possible to face in a solid and responsible way the problems that are ahead of us and simply make such a rhythm of work that will correspond to the interests of both the citizens of our country and the interests of peace and democratisation in our society. The team would actually be realised by a fundamental principle to take responsibility for the government and to provide democratically with insight into what is the public action of every official when it comes to the public position of the public government. In the best way, they would respond to what is today called the modern political concept of integration in Europe and the world, even at a level called BiH. So, by supporting the programme framework of the BiH Council of Ministers' action, I would like to establish a relationship in which a common interest in the welfare of our country will be recognised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1173	Thank you. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1174	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, on behalf of the MPs of the SDP, the Social Democrats of BiH, the New Croatian Initiative, we regret that the text of this exposé has not been received before, in order to take a closer look at all its aspects in the context of what stands before the BiH institution, the Council of Ministers or this parliament. At the same time, we express the view that we are encouraged by the course of action, especially in the context of adherence and strict commitment to the implementation of documents related to the Madrid Conference. What concerns us as a group of opposition political parties is a focus on the continuity of action from the previous term of office, as Mr Silajdžić has decidedly cited in his last part of the exhibition, which is unacceptable for us and in the context of this, since we estimate that the results from the previous term of office are not such that they could be followed further, but that strong changes are needed. The overall political concept, the way in which the Council of Ministers was built up and structured, and the experiences that we and our voters and the citizens we represent had in the context of the difference between the declarative and what seemed to be in hand, did not give us enough arguments to support these exposures and personal solutions for the leadership of the new Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1175	Thank you. Anyone else want any MPs on the occasion of the exposé, Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1176	This place is certainly a good place for political concepts, but we all had the opportunity to present political concepts at pre-election meetings and they resulted in the election result that we have today in Parliament. I will look back on the programme framework of the Council of Ministers' action. Personally, I believe that this software framework has just been located between those two key specifics of what the Madrid Conference is talking about. So these two limit values are self-sustainable peace and a self-sustainable economy. The first part of the programme framework, which indicates what will be the Council of Ministers' focus, clearly recognises the Council of Ministers' orientation towards the institutional and legislative direction of life in BiH towards self-sustainable peace, as most of the guidelines in this focus are currently talking about it and one part of the guidelines is talking about a self-sustaining economy. It is certainly a way for BiH to become a state in its full capacity as soon as possible and to start living and achieving the existence of citizens within BiH. I would just give some of my two suggestions in terms of paying attention to the Council of Ministers' work on a self-sustainable economy in two areas. First of all, these are two areas that are the sole authority of BiH institutions in the area of joint international communications and foreign trade. This country will rather catch up with personnel integrations towards the quality and arrangement of its common international communications, because they are the ones that, according to them, give an assessment and quality to this country towards attracting foreign capital. Foreign trade is also one of the exclusive functions of state institutions and we need to make sure that through this state function we also need to favour and create an environment for those economic operators that have an export orientation from our country, because this is the only way that this country gets some foreign income when it passes the sources of investment by international financial institutions and when the amount of money spent by international institutions that reside in BiH is eventually reduced. I would therefore suggest that the Council of Ministers pay particular attention to these two areas in their concrete programming tasks, because they are the exclusive powers of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1177	Thank you. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1178	First of all, I would suggest we give a sharp protest to the Bureau members, which is why they're not here. You see, as we have introduced a very, very significant point on the agenda. This isn't just about the exposé, or the two co-chairs' intentions, it's about the discussion of two co-chairs, and nobody even mentioned it was on the agenda. We have the paper that we got, the one that's wrong, and the one that's been delivered to us right now, allegedly good and doubtful, and now, given everything that's been going on, and no one's even opened a very significant question and said that we are now discussing proposals for the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers. If you transfer analogy from this congregation to the entity congregation, then you know who has the right to pronounce those names. Obviously, this is about non-synchronisation, the lack of understanding of its obligations, and the three people most responsible for what is happening at BiH level. 68 I realized that in this paper that Mr Silajdžić presented himself on behalf of and svet Mihajlović presented himself here on a concept on which a programme should be based in the next two years of the Council of Ministers, of course, assuming that the two of us vote today, and that this would represent one backbone or initial material for the complete Council of Ministers to consider. And if it's just a concept, then he for me and my MP group, whose president of the Parliament club, can be acceptable with some adjustments that must really be made for me when it's on the agenda to accept it. The first of these corrections refers to the first point, a major point, which says: "creation of conditions for the accelerated return of refugees and displaced persons", it must be defined correctly to the Dayton Constitution and that it stands to create conditions for the rapid resolution of the problem of refugees and displaced persons in the context of which it is of course and returned, but within which these further aspects that are mentioned are covered by the Dayton Peace Agreement. It may look like it's just a form, but I don't think it's a form, it's an essential question. One more point I have a fundamental observation that only journalists can see as a formal character, because journalists tend to narrow down some concepts for faster expressions, so from everything that needs to happen around the arbitration decision and the line of demarcation in the Brcko area, they bring it down to the problem of Brcko and then they transfer it to the political jargon. Therefore, I insist that this part, this point that begins on the issue of Brcko, be literally copied from the Dayton Peace Agreement, and I happen to have it on one piece of paper and it says:... so it stands in a relationship, so now I quote from the Dayton Agreement: “the disputed part of the border line between entities in the Brcko area”. The third remark I have referred to is this part addressed as the realization of tasks in the economic recovery and reform of the economic system, where it calls for consistent implementation of the state law on the privatisation of enterprises, etc. This part is too prominent, given the character of the Privatisation Act at BiH level, you well know that it is the most controversial law, better say, the law that was at all controversial about it, whether it should be considered here or not. And in that sense, the slower the law that was declared valid from the Office of the High Representative. I don't have it here, but next time I'm going to bring you the opinion of experts from the Office of the High Representative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on its request that privatisation is in the entity domain, what I'm asking for, if we start from the fact that these laws are temporarily passed at the moment until we adopt them and reject them, then this part should be in line with what's in that law, and it's nice to say there are some frameworks, possibly here to say that the Ministerial Council will worry about the privatisation of entities so that it won't be at the expense of the BiH state. And finally, I would like to say, I am now expressing my opinion in the first part of the proposed candidate for co-chair.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1179	Excuse me, Mr. Dokić, if you don't mind, we've divided this point into three sub-points, sub-point exposés, then there goes the confirmation of the appointment, where we planned the biography of candidates to look back.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1180	Then I think we're headed in reverse. 69 We should first confirm or refuse appointments, so if we confirm the appointments then allow them to bring the exposés or to observe them in parallel. Now we're talking about exposure, and we'll talk about candidates later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1181	So the candidates the Bureau appointed offer their programme before we confirm them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1182	I'm in for a compromise and here's an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1183	Does anyone have any questions about the exposé, any objections? Unless I call on the chairman to question whether they need to answer. So we've heard the exposés, we've heard the comments, certain suggestions and questions, and of course they've heard that and the candidates for the chairman, and I suggest we move on to point 4 below B.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1184	In the meantime, we got the text. It is indisputable that the presidency has executed, made a decision to appoint the chairpersons. The text in the first version made a mistake because that decision also included a decision on the appointment of vice-presidents. There is also one technical error in this correction because it is listed as co-chair and vice-chair but without the vice-president's name. It is a technical mistake and, of course, we will also indicate in confirming this decision that it is confirmed with the assumption that this technical correction has to be corrected. In the meantime, maybe that correction will come. I'll read about the candidates. All MPs received biographies, shorter biographies of candidates, and I will now read only a few accentes for MPs and the public, so parts of the biography for Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihajlović. Mr Silajdžić was born in 1945 in Sarajevo. Doctorate with topic from American-Albanian Relations, career of university professor at University of Pristina, University of Sarajevo, University of Itak, New York, Andrew, guest lecturer at Harvard University, then the Royal Institute of International Relations London, Carnegie Foundation,... Wilson Center and other universities. In his political career, he is BiH Foreign Minister 1991-1993, Prime Minister of RBiH November 95-96, BiH Party for April 1996 and the BiH Council of Ministers' chairman from 11.12.1996 to today. Among other things in the biography is that Dr. Silajdžić is a zealous and loud advocate of peaceful solutions. In March 1994, he led a delegation of the government of BiH to negotiations that were successfully completed by signing the Washington agreements created by the FBiH and ending the struggle between the Croatian forces and the BiH Army. These agreements saved thousands of innocent lives and significantly improved the chances of 70 to conclude the final peace agreement. His engagement consistently follows a orientation drawn at the beginning of his political career, respecting the value of freedom, democracy, human rights justice, which led him to international reputation and prominence. On the domestic stage, Dr Silajdžić is the main political advocate of the law on the application of international human rights contracts to the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. From the biography of Mr. Mihailović Svetozar, born in 1949 in the Municipality of Crnjijevo Bijeljina, according to the profession of economists, the work of the past has been spent mostly in the economy in jobs until the director, started working at the company “Sava” Bijeljina since 1972, radio by 1982, trainees, financial director and director general. From 1982 to 1987, he worked on a project of land planning in Semberia as a financial director. From 1987 to 1989 as financial director of Agrosemberija Bijeljina, from 1989 to 1993 as director of Duvan Bijeljina, and from 1993 to 1996 as chairman of the Executive Board of the Municipality of Bijeljin. Currently, he is serving as Director of the Public Fund for Pension and Disabilities Insurance of Republika Srpska. In the previous meeting of the National Assembly, he was an MP at the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, the married father of two children. You have heard the basic lines from the biographies of the appointed Co-chairing Council of Ministers, and I suggest that the House of Representatives decide to approve the appointment of the Co-chair of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, which says: 1. The appointment of Dr Haris Silajdžić and Svetozar Mihailović as the co-chair of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers is hereby approved on the basis of the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency's Co-chairing Council of Ministers and Hercegovien since 23.12.1998. 2. Approval of the appointment of Dr Haris Silajdžić and Svetozar Mihailović assume the post of co-chair of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, 3. The decision will be published in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Official Messenger. I call upon the MPs to plead by raising their hands because we confirm one decision for ZA and OBVI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1185	Mr. Chairman, I apologize, but I have an obligation on behalf of the representatives of these three SDP parties, the Social Democrats and the New Croatian Initiative, to state our position on the vote that will follow, that is, our position on the proposal. We cannot support this proposal to practically approve the appointment of co-chairs in the way it was given, for two principled reasons. Now I'm sorry that the gentlemen of our colleagues came out early, because this is the moment when they could say whether they agree or not. The first, principled reason is that this decision that is now before us that is in line with the Law, however, is not in line with the Constitution, the Constitution knows the Chair of the Council of Ministers, and that was one of the reasons why we proposed the Council of Ministers Act which we did not insist on today when there was a debate on the agenda for the purpose of opening the agenda in some way and to move towards resolving all these issues so that there would be no obstruction on our part. That's one reason. 71 The second reason is very important that we cannot support this is that Mr. Tokić also stated that such a structured council of ministers is not personally but structuredly not able to effectively do part of the work listed in the exhibition. So our decision will be negative where it is not initiated by personal solutions, it is not about the appointed gentleman or Silajdžić or Mihailović, it is about purely principled reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1186	Is there any further need for some MP to make this decision? Niko one's answering. Those who are a little closer to the Council of Ministers and the acquis of Bonska and Herzegovina know that the Council of Ministers has been working and carrying out activities on the restructuring and new configuration of the Council of Ministers, which is also the madridski obligation for which the deadline is prescribed. It is currently necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina to have a Council of Ministers, and it is necessary at this time to be subject to the existing configuration of course, with the obligation to make that commitment from the Madrid Conference regarding the change of the Council of Ministers' structure and respect. So, I make the decision, here's Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1187	I still have a need to express one of my own opinions and an attitude from which I will see clearly how I will vote. I have to say that I have some reservations for Mr Silajdžić for two reasons: this reserve is not because of the name and last name, but is usually for all those politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina who sat in the Assembly in 90 and 91 and did not do enough not to get into that horror behind us. So that reserve refers to all those who were in key political positions at the moment. The second reserve refers to this period behind us, this two-year period in which Mr Silajdžić several times made some statements in very important places that were more appropriate, so I don't know if they were worthy of the Prime Minister of an entity, but Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, my complete comment on the work of the complete ministerial council, which Mr. Tokić stated, was that they represented entities more than the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But from here on out, we must commit ourselves to political reasons, the principled position of the Style Coalition from the very beginning, and when we were with the co-chairs, in order to gain trust in each other here in this home, we must respect the proposals of the majority of one entity or, if you will, from one entity group. Our assessment is that Mr Silajdžić of the Bosniak people has a majority in this assembly and we will vote for him. There's another reason we can go over that first reserve. This is about a younger man who has time to, in a sense, correct the contents of his chip, so I hope it will be in everyone's interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1188	Thank you, Mr. Rasim Kadić, replica 72
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1189	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I hope this replica of mine does not spoil the vote that will come after, but I am obliged to replicate the simplified story of possible personal culprits for what has happened in the past six years in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is located in parliament, and some of its elected officials. This significantly reduces the basic elements of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was in the past exclusively on selected people in the 1990s elections, and which I consider to be an important and rather controversial reduction of the international possible score regarding the nature of the events that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I am obliged to say in principle that I disagree with such a way of observing responsibility for the past six years of the political life of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is why I wanted to come out in the sense of replication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1190	Thank you. So, I read the decision to approve the appointment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Co-chairing Council of Ministers Haris Silajdžić and Svetozar Mihailović. I call upon the MPs to declare by raising their hands, who is in favour of confirming the decision to approve the appointment? 21 is for, therefore, we have the necessary majority of the MPs present, we need to establish an entity's representation of votes. We're asking from the Federation's space who's in favour? (15) From Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? (5) Therefore, with the majority of votes required from the Federation and from Republika Srpska's space and most of the votes of the total number of MPs present at this session, I find that a decision on the appointment of the Co-Presidents of the Council of Ministers Silajdžič Silajdzic and Mr Svetozar Mihailović has been confirmed. Congratulations to Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihailović. Please allow us to hold the vote until the end, please, who is abstaining from the vote? - three abstentions. [[Applause]] Do you mind? Five is against it. So 21 is in, five against and three abstentions. Thank you. The order would be for the gentlemen whose appointment has been confirmed to give the word, Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihailović. Here's the deal. It's an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1191	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, here is a decision taken with half of the members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidencies House and I would in a certain way raise the question of the legitimacy of such a decision and 73 in such a way as to elect the co-chair of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. Just let it stand in the record of this discussion of mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1192	Thank you, lawyers, please, and decisions are made by the majority of the votes of the MPs present. So all decisions are made by a majority of the votes of those present and voting. The quorum makes up 22 members, we have a quorum of 28 members. The decisions were made by the majority of those present and voting accordingly, enough for 15 to vote, requiring ten from the Federation and five from the RS. Please, for the legitimacy of the decision, we'll repeat the vote to check it out, personally, I'd be willing to repeat it for legitimacy. Mr. Mihailović answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1193	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, let us, on behalf of the two of us, Mr Silajdžić, and in our own personal name, thank you for our confidence, promise that the two of us, in collaboration with the Council of Ministers we hope to soon choose, will justify your trust. Just what I was just saying was the basis of our action is the Dayton Peace Agreement, the declarations that were adopted in the meantime, the Council of Ministers Act and other acts. With the full co-operation of entities, not entering entity jurisdiction normally, respecting constitutional rights and entity constitutions. I hope that we will endure this task together and that your help in this matter will be precious. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1194	According to the otherwise established procedure, now comes the moment that the co-chairman who has been appointed is confirmed to give a solemn statement, I ask Mr Silajdžić and Mr Mihailović to approach the act of giving a solemn statement. I ask you to repeat with me the words in the text of the statement. Congratulations and applause. [[Making a solemn statement]] Under the further agenda, we should now at point 4 below c) confirm the appointment of the vice-president, vice-president and prime minister and deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Since it is necessary for them to preside over and deliver their appointments to the House of Representatives, I propose a break by 8 o'clock. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1195	(Speaks from the scene)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1196	We need a break and for otherwise fatigue and a drink of coffee, something to eat. We won't be long - one half hour. We continue after the break, which lasted a little longer than anticipated, with due apology. I am in a position to inform you that we will have to continue tomorrow's session at 11 a.m. due to the need for further consultations on personal decisions at the Council of Ministers. So, 11 o'clock tomorrow, follow-up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1197	I think this is a little unserious for a number of reasons. Next time I'll ask for a break to go to coffee and lunch in Banja Luka, my house of course. And you know how long that break will take. What's that supposed to mean? After an hour of break, and 15 minutes or half an hour has been announced. We're told we're not going on right now, but we're supposed to do it tomorrow. I won't be at the Assembly tomorrow. Thank you very much. I'm leaving for Banja Luka tonight. The break was a little bit longer, just to try to continue the work successfully. Since it's not all agreed, the only remaining -- so something extended the break just for the reason it's a successful work. Since that hasn't been achieved, we have a duty to continue our work tomorrow at 11 o'clock. The seat's been cut off from work. Extension 4.2.1999, 75
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1199	I just want to let you know that three MPs are on their way to the Assembly. Neven Tomić was sick and later left, Kadić Rasim is on his way and Jahić Adnan. In order to have the quorum needed for this kind of decision, we'll wait 15 minutes. I'm really sorry. So we'll start somewhere in 15, 20 minutes. Let me welcome all present MPs, present guests, Deputy High Representative of Ambassador Shumaher, members and co-chairman of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, and as you know, we are continuing today with the work of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives. At the 4th item of the agenda under c), which addresses the confirmation of the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers. Before I give my word - there are some MPs who have called for a word - just to let you know that there are 24 MPs present, 16 MPs from the territory of the Federation and 8 MPs from the territory of Republika Srpska. Therefore, we have a quorum for valid decision-making. This delay came because part of the MPs in the meantime were on their way to this building, according to the seat of the House of Representatives and they arrived. So I realize we have a quorum for rightful decision-making and the work of this House of Representatives. He answered the word Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1200	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have come to the floor simply to point out some things that are unacceptable to me. You know how we held the 1st and 2nd sessions and what grades we gave about preparing these sessions. Then we agreed on the agenda of the 3rd session and it went the way it did, and I feel that this session didn't even want to be held. Then we agreed hardly when we will hold this session and we agreed that representatives of all political parties will come with the Assembly Presidency to prepare for this session. On that day, 26.1. I felt that we had a constructive meeting where we discussed all the issues about the organization and preparation of the work of this congregation. Unfortunately, I feel yesterday and today that we were not honest at that meeting and that we did not make all the preparations even though many of the points of this agenda were in that session that was practically not even held. We must understand that all of us who come here as MPs have also our own professional obligations and that we cannot waste time on stretching, long-term settlement, and these two days we could also use to work commissions and prepare many other documents that should follow in the emergency session. Unfortunately, we lost that time the way 76 did, and I find that unacceptable. I simply protest and appeal that all those who assume certain obligations to prepare the agenda and prepare certain points and agree certain points must do so before the start of the Assembly and simply inform the Assembly when we vote on the agenda whether it is ready or not. We can't make it easy to give a flat-rate assessment of how to obstruct the work of this tall home, and basically when one analysis is done, then it's obvious that a lot of the culprits have and that in various ways they can't, or that in various ways, make it difficult for this House to work. So I ask that today, what we have on the agenda, we clearly say today - what is ready to do and that these things are no longer repeated so that the Presidency clearly assesses what can go, and what cannot go, so that we MPs do not waste time here and lead many of us astray and simply lead us astray a complete people who are following us and who are watching the session of this assembly. So I ask you to do this seriously and to do what is possible and what is clearly prepared to do and to do it effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1201	Thank you. Mr. Rakić's remarks and suggestions, I mean well-intentioned and well-founded. I would, however, like to point out that this session is scheduled as a two-day session, due to the necessary data consultations on some personal solutions. We stopped work at 8:30 last night to continue today at 11. I took responsibility for these points that were on the agenda for this session that we would solve them in these two days. I claim that the dots are prepared and I continue to hold on to that responsibility that I have assumed that we will end them. So, expecting further, of course, the co-operation of all MPs and assistance and in the preparation of the sessions and in the work of this session - on a question that is in a certain way and set, I am ready to respond that the points on the agenda of this session are prepared to a sufficient extent and that they can be resolved in these two days of work. Once again, therefore, stressing that I accept these remarks as well-intentioned and well-founded and justified, I call for us to join the work on the 4th session agenda -- confirming the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and vice-presidential Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As is known, according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the co-chair of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in its capacity as chairman, shall appoint ministers and deputy ministers and vice-president, with the prior agreement of the Presidency which has been secured - therefore, for the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and the consent of the Bureau necessary after these appointments and confirmations by the Representatives of those appointments, members of the Council of Ministers shall assume office. I call on one of the co-chairs of the Council of Ministers to read the appointments for the vice-chair of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1202	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, Mr. Chairman, allow me to read the appointed candidates for the Vice-President's Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. - Vice-President, Mr. Neven Tomić, 77 - Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, Mr. Marko Ašanin, - Foreign Minister Dr Jadranko Prlić, - Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Mirsad Kurtović, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, Mr Nudžeim Rečica and Mr Valentić Čorić, - Deputy Foreign Minister Dragan Božanić and Master Husein Živalj, Deputy Minister of Foreign Trogy and Economic Relations Dr Željko Šuman and Mr Gojko Milinković. I note that this appointment is agreed and aligned with Mr Mihajlović, the co-chair of the Council of Ministers and that the biographies are attached. On behalf of Mr. Mihajlović and on my behalf, I ask you to accept these appointments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1203	Thank you, Mr. Silajdžić. Mr. Dokić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1204	I'd like out of place. Give us a copy of the name so we can remember those names, and while we look at those names, I ask that their biographies be read. [[It is not clear because he speaks from the scene]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1205	In the meantime, we have consulted and until technically a copy of these appointments and the necessary biography in text form is prepared, we will take a short break at which the Foreign Affairs Commission will finish the job that didn't finish yesterday. So, members of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please attend the meeting to elect the chairman and vice-president. A break is enough until half-one. Pause According to the appointments that you have also received, I have read the biographies of the appointed -- the vice-chair of the Council of Ministers [read the biography].
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1207	I suggest that it be done next time everyone is present.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1208	I think this suggestion should be accepted, so we'll inform all the ministers and deputies who are appointed to attend the act to ensure full presence and then we'll make a solemn statement. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Divković Ivo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1209	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let's congratulate the elected ministers and ask the Social Democratic Party, the Social Democrats and the NHI, in front of the Club of Representatives, because we appreciate that it is moral for the elected ministers who are at the same time and the representatives of this House to freeze their mandate in this House because we appreciate that it is morally not to merge executive and legislative power at the same level. I would like to inform you that by the next session of this Parliament, we will pass the law or the proposal for a law on the separation of these functions, because I say again, we appreciate that it is not logical that ministers speak as ministers at the same time, and afterwards on their own programme and the implementation of this programme are declared as MPs. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1210	Thank you. Just to point out in part of European countries and where different political parties are in power and even where the Social Democrats have a majority in some of the countries, the practice is that MPs can be in the government. The issue is currently not regulated while definitely and precisely in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the practice is present. In any case, it is a matter of both the law and the rules of procedure on the work of ministers, and we accept this suggestion and will enter the minutes. Mr. Mihailović is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1211	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank you for the trust you have expressed this time, for accepting the proposal for inclusion to be elected today by the Council of Ministers. I hope that this act has done a great job, and now the Council of Ministers can do its job, and I hope that already at the next session of Parliament, I have concrete issues to discuss with you about legal projects, which the Council of Ministers will propose. Once again, thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1212	Thank you. 84 Moving to the 5th point of the agenda We've got four points here, and we're going to go in a row. (a) The European Security and Co-operation Organisation, (b) The delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shall consist of three members. The three members can be elected either from one or the other, or from both the House of Parliament, given that one delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is not the one and the other home, but only one House. Given that the delegation is composed of three members, we, as chairman of the College, have considered in preparation for this point the possibility of meeting both entity representation and national representation and party representation. What does that mean? Of the three members, it should be one-third of the RS, so one member, two members of the Federation, is an entity structure. Out of the total number of members, we believe that it is meaningful and necessary to be representatives of three peoples, Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat. Furthermore, according to party representation and election results of parties represented in the BiH House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, the strongest, or most numerous parties in Parliament should have the opportunity to take precedence in the election of members in this commission. Of course, all MPs and all parties have the right to propose and the House of Representatives will eventually decide, and we, as chairman of the College, have agreed on one proposal, respecting these three criteria, that the OSCE delegation is made by Mr Adnan Jahić, Mr Miodrag Deretić and Mr Vladimir Šoljić. That's one of the proposals, the proposal chaired by the College. I am now also putting this issue to the debate and calling on MPs for any other proposals. Mrs. Muminagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1214	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words about this agenda point, not just this OSCE passage. A group of SDP BiH MPs, SD BiH, The New Croatian Initiative is the second largest group in this House of Representatives. We have not had the opportunity, we are not allowed to participate in the agreement on the schedule of MPs in this delegation, I am talking about all four delegations, not only this, but we have been told what places are left for us in which delegations are left for us, and we believe that the election results, that we are opposition parties and that the two parties in this group and members of the Socialist International allow us to be represented in each of the four delegations, and if not, then at least we have a representative in the BiH delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Interparliamentary Union and the Central European Initiative. Since we have asked for an answer several times, we announced this yesterday both in writing and verbally9 to the chairman who prepared the proposals of these delegations, and since we did not come across understanding, we address this House not to accept such practice. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to participate in declaring this item of the agenda. Thank you. 85
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1215	Thank you. Is there anyone else? I just want to remind the Coalition House of Representatives 40% of the place, Social Democrats 4.7%, DN 2.4%, SDP 9.5%, HDZ 14.2%, NHI 2.4% Radical Party RS 2.4%, Sylog 9.5%, SRS 4.7% and SDS 9.5%. The SRS and the SDS are a common list, and that's what's coming down. I respect Mrs Muminagić's conclusion that this group has 16.6% when it comes to the summation of the three parties. However, these are electoral entities, all individually performed in the elections, not as the Coalition, not as an alliance, and only those three forms know the rules and regulations of the performance. They are a political group created by mutual agreement after the elections, which is not yet regulated by the Rules of Procedure. I don't mind the political group pleading as a political group. However, the fact is in the election results are as I stated, and when the elements I talked about and the percentages I talked about are taken and the need to represent the entity, national and party representation of the mathematics that we did, unfortunately, is inexorable, and mathematics is as I read it. Therefore, I, therefore, made a proposal under point (a) of the chair of the College, and I would ask for concrete proposals. Is there any other proposal within the Commission that we should give a candidate and declare ourselves? Any other suggestions? Thank you. We're putting too much into voting. Please, who is it that makes the delegation a delegation in the read-out? Please establish a quorum. Let's see the quorum, please let's get everyone's hands up. Twenty-one, what kind of 27 is that? I know, but it's 27 minus five. We'll wait for Ambassador Kadić to enter the O.R. please. Please establish a quorum. All MPs, count, please, all MPs, raise their hands. 22 thanks. I call on MPs to plead, who is it that makes the OSCE delegation Adnan Jahić, Miodrag Deretić and Vladimir Šoljić raise his hand? Who's in? 20 so we have most of it. Please from the RS space, who's in? So seven has a majority. Thank you. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? Thank you. So, most of the votes and most of them by entities, a decision was made on the appointment of a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the OSCE Mission, composed of Adnan Jahić, Miodrag Deretić and Vladimir Šoljić. Congratulations to the elected MPs in the delegation. Let's move on to the next one. Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the BiH Central European Initiative. We decided to appoint a six-member delegation. In that six-member delegation, we agreed one-third of RS, with two MPs from the 86 RS space. We have agreed to make it two national, two, two, two, two, and in this regard, satisfying that, according to national membership, MPs are from parties to the percentage result of the parties. According to this composition, the President's College's proposal that the delegation in the Central European Initiative makes Perkanović Mara out of freedom, Špirić Nikola SDS, Tarik Čaršimamović, Coalition, Ana Havel HDZ, Pero Skopljak HDZ and one place for a political group of five, up to six, a total of 16% belongs to the political group SDP and SD. I propose that, in the read composition, MPs be made aware of whether they are for the proposal, leaving the empty space for the group to which it was. Who's in, please raise your hand? 21 thanks. From the RS space, who's in? Thank you. 8 thank you. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? 13 and 8, so 21. I find that with most votes required, please do, 21 is total for, 13 from Federation space and 8 from RS space. Please, who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. Stop with the first and second votes, one MP abstention, voice structure, thank you Jadranko, suggestion appropriate. I therefore conclude that with the majority of votes needed and the required entity representation of votes, five members of the Central European Initiative delegation were elected, namely Perkanović Mara, Špirić Nikola, Tarik Čaršimamović, Ana Havel and Pero Skopje. The Pesto place will be elected after the SDP proposal, or the Social Democrats. The Interparliamentary Union of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH consists of an 11-member delegation of 11 members. Of those 11 members, a third of the i.e. 4 need from RS space. Out of the remaining 7 of the Federation's space, we agreed to make four Bošnjak and three Hrvat. Of the 4 Bošnjak, we agreed to be 3 from the coalition, one from the political group, and 3 Hrvat, two from the HDZ and one from the SDP group, the Social Democrats. This would satisfy the absolute percentage representation of parties in Parliament, because the SDP Group, the Social Democrats, had 16.6%, 11 seats got 2 seats, and they belonged to 1.6. So, they were satisfied with the space of RS of 4 members from two groups of Slog or SDS, the SRS list by percentage, the coalition of 40% of how much space there is, so 4, the coalition should get 3 seats, of course, which is agreed on, according to which all these elements that satisfy all these requirements, the composition of the delegation would look, the proposal of the Representative College is the following Safet Oručević, Bećirbašić Smail, Ibrahim Spahić, Mirko Banjac, Dragan Mirković, Malić Momir, Rakić Vito Pero Marković and Pero Mađar, which is 9 members and two mayors of the proposals, which according to the percentage belong to the political group SDP, SD and NHI. I call, if there are no new proposals, I call on members of the House of Representatives to plead. Who is there for this proposal from the President's College, along with this fact that two seats remain vacant for the sudden spill after the proposal? 87 Who's in, please plead? How many total votes? So 20 for, most of it has. From the RS space, who's in? Thank you. From the RS space, who's in? Thank you. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? 12 thanks. So, both from the RS and from the Federation, the majority is needed and most MPs are needed. We're taking the vote to the end. Who's against it? No one's against it. Who's being held back? Two abstentions. I find that nine members of the Interparliamentary Union have been elected. Congratulations to the members. We move on to the next commission, a delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. A delegation to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, consisting of 5 members according to structure, the first entity 2 members should be minimally from the RS space, 3 from the Federation's space. Of this 3 from Federation 2 Bosniaks and one Hrvat. As the coalition has 40% of its seats in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples, 40% of the 50 are round 2 places for the Coalition, one place for HDZ, as this is the next largest political party in the Federation and two sites from the RS, which are filled with a proposal from two political groups, one style, one SDS SR list. Thus, the Presidential College proposes the composition of a parliamentary delegation for the Council of Europe in the following sastav: Edhem Bičakčić, SDA, Mediha Filipović, Party for BiH, Dokić Branko, Sloga, Tošić Momir SDS and Vinko Zorić, HDZ. Therefore, a five-member delegation of five parties, all members from different states, two from both entities, demand and five members from one member of women. This is a proposal from the chair of the Colleges that meets these requirements of percentage representation, entity and national. I call upon the members to plead. Who is for this proposal from the Council of Europe delegation? 21 votes. Thank you. Please from the RS space, who's in? Thank you. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? 13 votes. So we have entity representation and we have most of the MPs present. Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? One abstention. I also find that this de3legation requires the majority and the required entity representation in the majority that the House of Representatives has chosen this delegation as well. I would like to point out once again that the House of Representatives is choosing a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for all associations and the elected delegations in this 88 composition are the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. I congratulate all elected deputies in committees and wish them successful work in one period for which the quality work of these commissions will be extremely important as before. This would end this part of the agenda if there were no questions. We're going to go to six. Agenda item Is there a need for participation from MPs? Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1216	Fellow Members of the Bureau, Bureau and guests, a number of times yesterday was observed missing members of the Bureau or the absence of members of the Bureau in this session. Today, it is impossible to undetect the absence of MPs where I do not think of MPs who have used their business rights not to participate in the work of the session and esteeming, of course, the obligations we have made as MPs of this high house, I would also like to set up a sweat and, at the same time, recommend that poslovnički or other relevant acts be precisely regulated by the obligations and responsibilities of Members of the BiH Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1217	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might be asking you a question? Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1218	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the essence of the Dayton Agreement, among other things, is based on the continuity of all laws, which are not opposed to the Dayton Peace Agreement in relation to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I think it is very important to conclude this in the context of non-compliance with the legal acts at the previous agenda. According to the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission and the OSCE, it is clear that these rules and regulations are in force, unless they are opposed to an adequate law relating to the election of MPs in BiH's different state-level assembly. According to an important positive regulation, automatically when selecting members of the executive bodies of the government ceases membership in the parliamentary institutions of those same people. I call on the Assembly's leadership to establish this and in a certain way both the preliminary points and from the moment, in fact, establish a completely different quorum and a completely different status of all members who wish to maintain the opposite regulation at the same time as members of Parliament and members of the executive bodies of the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-01-22-0.u1219	Thank you. Is there anyone else who has a question? 89 As far as I can tell, it's gone. The professional services will prepare an interpretation of the status of MPs, and at this point, I remain to finish this session and thank all MPs for their cooperation. Sit down and finish work at 13:30.
