ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1220	Gentlemen chairman, honourable fellow Members, esteemed guests. I would like to inform you that the Lawmaker's Club, after what we announced last time at the Parliamentary Assembly meeting of BiH, has filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court of BiH in the way of the election of co-chairing the Council of Ministers as a whole, and we do not dispute that you will continue to take the solemn oath today that the co-chairing ministers will swear not to violate the BiH Constitution even though they are not legally elected under the same constitution. We do not dispute your right to do so with the will of the majority and today access that act, although we wanted to suggest to you the work of the co-chairs and members of the Council of Ministers that we do not do so until the Constitutional Court's decision, but if you already make such a decision and do so, I must inform you that this act will not be attended by the MPs of the Serbian Democratic and Serbian Radical Party because they have launched the dispute before the Constitutional Court of BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1221	Thank you. The Co-chairing Council of Ministers made a statement last session. I urge ministers and deputies at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the act of giving a solemn statement. Please repeat with me parts of the text of the solemn statement. [[Making a solemn statement]] Thank you, I congratulate you and wish you successful work. A-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i.i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i-i. 2 We are continuing to work and we are starting to establish the agenda of the 4th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. There are 35 MPs present in this issue, therefore there is a quorum for the rightful decision-making and work of the House of Representatives. We move to the agenda of today's meeting of the House of Representatives. As I said at a meeting of representatives of all parliamentary political old people, which took place on 27 January, the agenda and the 3rd and 4th meeting of the Parliamentary House of Representatives was preliminaryly established. The 3rd session is over, you are familiar with the work on this session, and the issues that we have addressed, and for the 4th session of the House of Representatives, it is agreed that all the legislative initiatives that have arrived in the meantime be put in place by the Council of Ministers, MPs, Members of Parliaments, etc. It is also agreed that the competent working authorities, i.e. the House of Representatives' committees, all initiatives of their jurisdiction, all legislative initiatives of their jurisdiction, shall be reviewed, made their comments, their opinions and that these issues are subsequently considered. We have established the working bodies of the House of Representatives, elected chairmans, elected members of these committees, vice-chair and part of the working bodies, or the Commission has already had a session, along with the Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs, which has discussed part of the law and proposed a conclusion on the procedure or procedure in the case of initiatives for certain legislative solutions by Members and Clubs of MPs. The conclusion of the procedure and the procedure in the event that the MPs or the psolanic clubs submit some legislative initiative, we intended to put it at the bottom of the current questions and to temporarily resolve this issue until a permanent Rules of Procedure is brought forward, and those questions that the committees have resolved or discussed have been put on the agenda of today's session. Before this meeting, we summed up the work of the House of Representatives' neighbours and discussed the possible appearance of a definite agenda for today's session. We agreed that there was agreement that at today's session there would be: the draft law on the BiH State Anthem, the discussion and adoption of the Law on Citizenship, the review and adoption of the Law on the flag of BiH, the review and adoption of the Law on the coat of arms, the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Immunity, the Decision establishing the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Parliamentary Issues. This is a proposal from the Presidential College for today's agenda on which there is agreement and issues discussed on the committees of the House of Representatives. This is also a proposal from the Presidential College for the agenda of today's session. We did not agree and there is no agreement on the proposal for a law on administrative fees for BiH. Of course, every question will be considered and a search will be conducted. So we did not agree on the proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose proposal has been submitted by the Council of Ministers long ago in the form of a proposal. Since it is not agreed at the Presidium College that this point, as agreed, goes into the draft agenda, we will declare ourselves specifically, whether it will be on the agenda or not, we will particularly plead, and we will agree on this overall agenda, as the Presidential College has proposed and agreed. Mr. Banjac, come in. 3 Gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests. I'll try to briefly say what my proposal is. I hope this will not again be interpreted as an obstruction, because I am convinced that the protection of the BiH Constitution is not an obstruction. This time it is true that we have agreed to what Mr. Chairman said about what was read, I would only suggest that it be in accordance with Article 1. BiH's 6th Constitution first takes a decision on the BiH symbols, and then discusses the draft of the laws mentioned, because it does not violate the Constitution, simply let the procedure be known in the meantime, let the Presidency take a position on it, and we will then discuss the proposal at the next session. We also satisfy the Constitution and what is here, and I ask that it be made known. So I'm not arguing anything unless I'm asking the procedure to respect the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1224	Mr. Genjac, I'm asking what function Mr. Hodžić is here, sitting down, since he's blocked me from my path, so I'm only asking what function he's in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1225	Do not prevent the road as employees of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1226	He's employed by the Council of Ministers. So the employees are sitting in the front row now. Just to consult that's past the deal. The front row is reserved for presidents of the international community and ministers and their deputies. As far as I'm concerned, he can sit wherever he wants, but when we make a deal, that's how it should be. Dear colleagues, the respected presidency, on the occasion of the agenda, I would like to say that today's agenda is quite the opposite of what we agreed on 15 days ago. Namely, to remind the esteemed presidency, a number of people sitting here as MPs were present at that meeting, I do not want to call them names, and then we agreed that the first session of the next session, that was the one we had the last time that this session was held on the agenda that was agreed and that for today's session of the agenda, we would taxively count the agenda with all proposals of the law, which are now in the procedure and for which the promoter insists to be put. In this light, four laws are foreseen for today's session, which were sent by MPs' SDP clubs, i.e. the Social Democrats to remind you, that is the Law transposed in the People's Language regarding co-operation with the Court of Justice in The Hague and the arrangement of a whole set of issues relating to people suspected of war crimes, another law that speaks of the establishment of a common police force that should act on the prevention and prevention and detection of serious crimes, serious crime of trafficking and drugs, terrorism etc., the third law relating to travel documents and four laws is the Law relating to the Council of Ministers. 4 Not entering into what is the content of these laws, what is their quality, which is their justification of this or that kind, these laws are in the procedure, some of these laws are almost two years in the procedure, and some of these laws are 10-15 days in the procedure. We agreed then that these laws would be on the agenda today. If they were not respected to say so, unless the consistency around them was complete, then it was thought that today the debate would be held, the first debate, and that after that the laws would go in the further procedure parallel to that not only had it not been done, parallel to that, the Constitutional Commission reached a conclusion that, I remind you, a rule is set up which is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House, they went to the Interim Al is the Rules of Procedure. The initiatives of the Members are practically blocked here in the way they are specified by the Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you of the conclusion of point 4 and point 3. The Commission's reports are directly derrogated and are contrary to Article 6(4). Interim Rules of Procedure and Article 8(2). The Interim Rules of Procedure and whatever the Proposer had the best intentions to arrange this entire area, the result is that only blocking what is the right of a democratic MP has been done. With this in mind, I want the following gentlemen to be made chairman, we believe that this agreement should be respected and that what we agreed on should be included in the agenda. You can forward this to the Council of Ministers after that debate and probably do so, but in any case, we insist that it be done and done as agreed. You may not like these laws, or like them, but that's the deal. I'm saying this for one simple reason why I want to draw attention, especially to Mr. Šumaher, who recently told us here that this is the darkest era of parliamentaryism. I don't think you can talk about the darkest age here for the simplest reason why there's never a nigger around here, there's always niggers from what we do, but it's definitely this black age, I'm going to tell you and I insist that we plead. Please, you are MPs who do not participate in the ruling structures that I do not factor and I do not support this Council of Ministers, ignore our laws beyond the agreement, you have chosen only the presidents of the clubs from your and the presidents of the committees from only three ruling groups, representing this House abroad exclusively the people you have agreed on in the SDS, HDZ and the SDA. You're sitting here with the three of you from HDZ, SDA and SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1227	Please submit a proposal on the agenda. The proposal on the agenda is for Mr Genjac to declare whether you block the opposition by building a tripartite parliament, the leadership of a tripartite parliament, which is nothing more than a mirrored Council of Ministers. What would you call that part of the agenda? The golden point of the agenda, Mr. Genjac, is called to put into the agenda what we have agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1230	With all due respect, the replica to Mr Lagumdžija, when he found that the SDS as a party in power and some other party in power and some other party in power. I just insist that it is known that SDS is not a party in power. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1231	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1232	N. Dama and gentlemen. I think no matter how hard individuals try to hide a new relationship in this representative council, they're doing nothing. The only truth is that the Council of Ministers makes up the Coalition for Full and Democratic BiH, HDZ and the koalicija of Sloba from RS. In this case, Zlatko must know that the SDS, the radikal and the Democratic Party I run share the fate of the Party he runs. The SDS has been the opposition in Parliament for a year, and I don't think it's a good idea for you to continue your inerts, though, as instructed by part of the international community for all the problems that you're simply putting into that basket. It's not fair, and it's not democratic. So here is the work of the coalition of SDA, HDZ and the Coalition of Syllabics, others share the same fate. I slow down not to argue that this coalition can function. But time will show whether or not it can, people are chosen by majority votes and I, of course, disagreed, we neither supported the Council of Ministers' composition, we weren't even when they took an anthem, when they took an oath for reasons we think it was an unconstitutional act and an act that was against the BiH Council of Ministers' Act. Thank you. So we're in a position like you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1233	Thank you. The replica of Mr. Banjac and Mr. Lagumdžija. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1234	I'm asking Mr. Lagumdzi to at least apologize to me, because I am here from the SDS, but I'm here in the mask, I'm masking what's going on, so please at least apologize to me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1235	Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1236	Mr. Genjac, if you'd let me say it more partially, I'd be republishing what I've been called, probably Mr. Banjac wouldn't have to answer his word. So, I repeat the congregation leadership, the College - makes SDS, SDA and HDZ, that's the fact. Three gentlemen sit here and they're the ones who gave us the agenda and agreed. The assembly is run by these three parties personally, and all the rest are masks that others can talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1237	Thank you. Mr. Deretić and I ask you to limit yourself to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1238	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Presidency, fellow MPs and distinguished guests, I will again point to a question which, to date, is not a concrete position, and this is a matter of excluding this building and forming a district, therefore, for the protection of the physical integrity of the Members, above all. To this day, unfortunately, I have not received a concrete answer to my inquiry, I have read the materials of former Members who were in the Representative's Council, I have read the answer of Mr Vestendorp, which he has promised will be resolved soon, but to this day absolutely has not been done, and in this sense I pray that this point and the last time I insisted on this question is answered here by the distinguished Mr. Chairman and his associates that this issue will soon be resolved. However, this is an undefined notion for me soon, and I would ask that today and this issue be placed definitely on the agenda, to set deadlines until when this issue will be resolved, given that I had just received information that there was also a single arrest here in Sarajevo yesterday, a Srbin and Mr. Uroš Gostić or Gostović, as I do not know, and I would also ask that these issues and this issue be resolved at the moment when they are to be arrested and for whom someone thinks they should be arrested and pre-convicted as guilty and to find themselves in prison and prove their innocence. I, in this sense, ask Mr Šumaher to take this matter to work with Mr Vestendorp, and at the shortest possible interval, to resolve this issue for the safety of all our MPs and on the other hand, that none of us must do it under certain tension, because I think it does not create an atmosphere that will be desirable and that would be desirable given the work that we are doing here today and in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1239	Thank you. As far as I can tell, here's Mr. Rakić. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1240	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear guests, I suggest a change in the agenda. You know that MPs from Republika Srpska have raised the issue of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity, however, considering the law as defined, and knowing that today we have both a decision on the establishment of the Secretariat and the definition of further services of systematization and all that is happening, we believe that this law is quite unscathed and broadly covered by immunity, and that today should be removed from the agenda, and that one should make a real provision for the overall organisation and what must be covered by immunity for one of the next assembly when it is brought to an end to put it on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1241	Thank you. Mr. Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1242	The esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow Members, dear guests, I would suggest that today we do not consider those laws that have been declared provisionally valid from the Office of the High Representative. I have a few reasons for that. First of all, we need to agree on how we will adopt these laws, in no case at all, and because of the integrity of this high house, we cannot accept them in the form that they are intoxicated in the Official Messenger. If this and what is standing there, it is best to confirm this great statement by my colleague Lagumdžija, that this is the time as he said "black parliamentaryism", and I will only read to you what is in the preamble of the Law on the Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. - In accordance with its powers under Annex X of the Peace Agreement and Article 11. I hereby decide that the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina will enter into force on 1 January 1998, on temporary grounds until the Parlamenary Assembly adopts this law in the form necessary without any additional amendments and conditions. I think this conclusion of this sentence even I am deeply convinced did not even occur from the Office of the High Representative, and if it is, this is the best proof that this is the time of black or blackest parliamentaryism. And if this were to be adopted by the Sloge parliamentary group, this would be directed to consider the Council of Europe, to assess parliamentaryism as imposed here. On the other hand, I'd just remind you that even the first part of this preamble doesn't stand at all. Because in Bon, the High Representative has not been given the authority of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly, and to be honest with you, the Office of the High Representative knows well. I was the one who had several times not only as an MP but also in some other function raised that question and I had conversations with the people of the Office of the High Representative and I had confirmation that they knew that the High Representative had no right, and we all know that here, but at one point the blockade of work in the Assembly, we accepted as a temporary measure to come into some position here where we are now in the assembly to pass laws. My proposal regarding all these laws would be as follows: To return it to the procedure as follows: If the coordination body of the Assembly therefore, both councils prepare for the assembly, it may already be on the next things that were not agreed, and we discussed all these laws, and we almost agreed that these things were being prepared and discussed. You know well, since the first law in that set of the Law on Citizenship, that there was only one member left here to be open, the service of Mr. Šumaher one evening about half past twelve, defined, and that member gave the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina the right to double citizenship with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the same way as he did with Croatia. Only about it was not agreed, I think if there was a good will, and a lot of what was disputed at that time about that member was changed in favour of adopting this, that we could fully implement this law through the assembly procedure by returning to the agenda of that member. It's similar with other laws, I'd like to remind you that for example. The law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina text section that was agreed, and if it remained a controversial form of flag, there were three variants, and the proposal included two votes, and voted for one. I suggest that we consider now only that part, not the wording part of the law, but that part alone. If I didn't take up your time, it also applies to these other laws, so let them apply as they apply, this is not an emergency matter at all, for the next assembly or for the other one to be able to go through the assembly procedure in this light and once put in a completely regular way. I think that's how we're going to protect the high representative's office that I believe wanted to help make things right. I still have one suggestion, in line with what Mr. Banjac has suggested to expand the agenda with one point that we will adopt, which are the symbols of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if you accept it, to make one break for the co-ordination body to write that proposal, it can be done in 15 minutes, and to put that into constitutional frameworks. I would be very pleased if our work in the next two years were really based on the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not on the action of certain authorities that sometimes forget that there is a constitution, as the highest legal act that we all must uphold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1243	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1244	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vito Rakić has already talked about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Immunity, I am now taking the opportunity to invite all MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly's Representatives regardless of which entity they come from, to invite the Office of the High Representative of Mr Šumaher himself, to take a half hour break to inform us of the Minister of Interior of the Federaciuje, since there has been an arrest by the High Representative of Republika Srpska in the territory of the Federation of BiH, and we have prayed 9 for a break of 15 minutes or a half an hour to hand over that information to us, otherwise a delegation or MPs from Republika Srpska in this House will consider whether at all while arresting the highest state officials of Republika Srpska will attend a further session. So, please pause for 15 minutes or half an hour as long as it's enough for you to brief us, to make a decision regarding immunity and a set of laws, and to participate in the work of this Parliament. Thank you very much, pause until the information is prepared, and we will present our position afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1245	Thank you very much. Mr. Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1246	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am taking this opportunity to inform this meeting that Mr. Uroš Gostić was arrested yesterday in Sarajevo, and that he was handed over to the investigation court in Sarajevo, he was part of the area of financial violations, and after the investigative judge today takes a statement he will decide on his further action, it is therefore not a matter of any need to raise tensions on this, since Mr. Gostić was allowed to talk to Prime Minister Dodik last night, that the legality will be fully respected and possible already after the conclusion of this statement that Mr. Gostić continues his way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1247	Thank you. We'll take a break after this agenda issue is formed and settled is not a pause disputed. But let's get some systematic work done. I will first ask some questions that were directly addressed to me, namely whether we want to introduce the authority of three parties in this House, and then it is explained that three of the three parties sitting here, of course also in the House of the Federation Parliament, are sitting representatives of the HDZ and the SDP, I do not think that this is the rule of the SDP and the HDZ. The second thing probably led Mr. Lagumdžija to this confusion in his correction, and don't think about it, because in the first discussion, he referred to Mr. Šumaher as the question that three parties were represented in the working bodies, etc. that this is the power of three parties. Because of the general public, and not just because of Mr. Šumaher, I want to explain once again, of the seven House of Representatives commissions in each commission there are at least six parties, in each commission the opposition received a more percentage election result, out of seven presidents in seven commissions the presidents are from six parties, so six different parties. Nine parties were represented in the Interparliamentary Union of 11 members, five parties were represented in the Council of Europe, five parties were represented in the Central European initiative of six members, and three parties were represented in the OSC mission of three members. So, from this part of the answer I think it contains the answer and that we do not want to introduce the power of the three parties and that from these facts it is enough to conclude, of course to the good part of the parties the election campaign was the only argument being the power of the three parties. Unfortunately, that card finally seems to be missing. I ask you to bear in mind these facts, especially about the commissions, about the composition, because it is absolutely satisfied with both party membership and structure and election results and please bear that in mind. As far as the agenda debate on the agenda is concerned, we've concluded, and now we're putting it to the vote, what do you want? There's no need for a replica of exposure, here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1248	Chairman, I'm sorry, I have no intention of raising tensions, and obviously I have a need as soon as I raise my hand. I want it because you've made it possible, I haven't, and I thought that today we're discussing it, and that's the way the Commission's election is about European institutions. You know that we left that agenda at the last session, and you also know that we think we left first because we are not satisfied with the way we were defined as being left behind, not asking us, and the other thing we don't consider and that this choice is legal and that it was regularly done for the simple reason that we claim today, and we ask that it be checked, that the elected ministers had no right to vote. Or we continue to claim that the incompatible executive and legislative authority is at the same level, and if that's the case, then you did not have a quorum at the last session for such a choice. So without the minister's votes, you didn't have the quorum, for the record.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1249	I have cited the facts about the composition of committees and therefore I say there is no need to replicate the numerical facts, I will ask the Secretariat to prepare for the next session a more detailed statistics on this issue, that is one thing, another thing please finish, you will get the word. This is a matter to resolve, and to move on to the agenda and take a break. So, I have expressed the facts of how to ensure the participation of committees and the election of committees is a democratically other way there is no, all these issues, the comments on the composition of the committees have all had the opportunity and the opportunity to say and to plead. And in the end, it's decided for the most part. So please, this question can be some point of some new agenda, some new agenda, some new agenda and some special point. We're moving on to a statement on the agenda. If there is no agenda, please refrain.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1250	You don't need me to talk to you here because you all know, we all know well here, Mr. genius has spoken to the public, I want the public to know that these figures on the number of MPs and parties and individual commissions, that SDP, Social Democrats and the NHI political group that is working together here is definitely not in any government, not in the chairmanship of the assembly, and if it had a candidate, it doesn't participate in representing this home in international institutions, it doesn't participate either as chairman of any committees of this home. I want the public to know that the full responsibility for handling this home and his presentation outside has been usurped by anyone who isn't in these three parties, if that's what you want. So, I repeat, we're not in any of these bodies, thanks to the arrangement you see who.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1251	Thank you. In one committee chaired by these parties, in each of these committees three are from these parties, in the Interparliamentary Union two of these parties were left place, in the European Initiative Delegation one of these parties, that they did not propose and that they gave up the possibility of democratically ensuring, that is the question of this group, these are facts. Mr Lagumdžija was not present at the last session, but these are facts, therefore. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1252	You've now moved on to what we've been left with, what's the matter with you? What are you going to leave us? What you left us, we won't. Mr. genius, you're not here to leave us anything, we have our own electoral body, we have our own space in this House, you and anyone who doesn't have to leave us anything, and please get rid of that rhetoric. Thank you very much for leaving us nothing but you or the political group that you belong to.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1253	At no point did I say that something was left behind, in every party of places it's as percentage, so it's left to every party absolutely. Here you go, Mr. Branković, Bičakčić and Mr. Malkič.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1254	I personally watch out as an MP of this home from my colleague Lagumdžija that I have not publicly apologized for anything, and I do not belong to this party group which he mentions is usurped by the right to do so, I have won my right in democratic elections, if there are any problems with the results of democratic elections we can make a point of regret for the past elections and making a strategy for the new elections, but please, Mr Lagumdžija, I feel offended and I have no right to usurp.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1255	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to go on the agenda and that this parliament as an institution of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina begins to work normally, and I ask my colleague Lagumdžija to show a little patience to participate in the work and this home with the candidates he proposes. It is his right and this House will respect all the proposals that are based on it there is no reason to disobey, in line with the results achieved, but a little more patience and until the moment when it will be able to decide in the way it now commands here in relation to the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1256	Dear gentlemen, honourable MPs, I can't understand that we're always going out here after a pay phone and talking about some sort of disagreement and disagreement, with someone and something. It is clearly defined as saying in the Assembly by voting, not by going out for a pay phone and telling stories to the unconscious that something is wrong and that it should be different. I guess gentlemen are clear parliamentary procedures, which are primarily regulated by the parliamentary majority in democratic countries. It is necessary to play numbers based on election results in Parliament. You have the opportunity to group together that your proposals have an impact on the work of the assembly, but you can't impose that on the speaker and I suggest we go according to the agenda points, voting on points. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1257	Havala. A few suggestions were on the agenda, and I'll systemize it. The first thing that has been agreed on in the presidential college is the proposal I will put to the vote. Of course, in tomas, each item of the agenda can be stated what the MPs had objections to that item on the agenda, if the agenda is adopted. It is therefore suggested that the agenda should look like this: 1. Draft law on the national anthem, 2. Discussing the Law on Citizenship, 3. Bosnia and Herzegovina flag law 4. The adoption of the coat of arms law, 5. Discussing the adoption of the Telecommunications Act, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Immunity Act, 7. Decision establishing the interim secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and 8. MPs' questions. That's what's up with that explanation that I listed on the representative's college. Mr. Genjac, please, while someone from the RS is lying in jail, please give us half an hour of information to participate correctly in Parliament's work. The information you've received is sufficient. It's not enough. We ask that this home be made known whether or not we will work properly. We're ready for every kind of dialogue. I'm looking for a half-hour break to vote on the agenda, if we're going to participate. Because it's more valuable than the agenda you want to give us now, we'll vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1260	I'm taking this matter of delegating a person very seriously, but before we approve and we have a break I'd like to further explain what Mr. Bičakčić said. About Mr. Gostić being arrested. Whether he was a member of Parliament or an employee of Parliament or was a delinquent in another joint institution. Yes or no? 13 If the answer is no then there is no reason to take a break. If the answer is yes, then we should have a break. Whether this man is a member of a joint institution or a deputy to someone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1261	Is there anyone who can answer the question right now? Mr. Dokić and Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1262	I have to say, I'm very surprised by this news and I found out about this news here. Mr Uroš Gostić is a member of the Party of Independent Social Democrats, whose member I am also, he is not in the joint services that is true, but regardless of which it is really necessary to carry out certain consultations, and especially this break has come at the right time and because we will not adopt the agenda under this proposal of the co-chair today. Obviously, there are a lot of objections, and Mr. Co-chair, I'm afraid we're going to reject the agenda and we're going to end this session today, and there are a few things that can be completely finished today. That is why the coalition's Sloga parliamentary group also supports a request for a break within which it would now try to redefine the agenda in that light that could be accepted today and completed on the one hand and to consider this initiative for a decision on BiH symbols. And the agenda and this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1263	Thank you. At the request of the two parliamentary parties, I am giving a half-hour break. PAUSE ( AFTER PAUSE) We can keep working. On the break we had was a meeting of political party representatives, an extended college, and we agreed on some issues about the agenda. The Law on Citizenship, the Law on the flag, the Law on the coat of arms, and the Telecommunications Act would be postponed for the next session. Also the proposal for a law on administrative fees for BiH. The four laws tabled by Parliamentarian Lagumdžija would also be at the next session under the obligation of the Committee for Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the Council of Ministers to consider and present their opinion on these laws, unless the procedure is implemented and without these laws will be on the agenda. It's about that proposal. Since this is about a group of issues proposed for the agenda, since we have resolved these issues, it remains as some concerted proposal by these representatives of political parties to work on the agenda as follows today, and I ask you to listen to the proposals and try, since it is agreed to adopt this proposal. 14 So 1. Draft law on BiH's national anthem 2. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Immunity Act, 3. Decision on the establishment of the secretariats of the PS BiH, that is, the decision on the SPS Secretariat, 4. The conclusion of the procedure for the adoption of the law and of the 5th MPs' questions. Since we have long discussed the agenda that various concepts have been made that, within these points, all the comments on topics that are on the agenda can be made, I would ask you to join a statement on who is for the extended agenda. Please raise your hands and let us know who's in. Of 35 MPs, 35 voted in favour of the proposed agenda. Since we were unanimous, I think this is the right time to inform you that lunch break is scheduled at 2 o'clock, so lunch is timed at that time, so we're going to have to keep that in mind. So we're going to go over the agenda points, according to the agenda that we just adopted. 1.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1265	Dear Members of the Parliament, before we move to the point, or at the beginning of the debate on this item of the agenda, I suggest that this House take the following decision: “In accordance with Article 1(6). The Constitution of the BIH House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly makes: Decision on Sombolims of BiH. Article 1 - BiH symbols are anthem, a coat of arms and a flag. Article 2 – The decision on symbols is referred to the BiH presidency for confirmation. Chairman." Please make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1266	Before I put this proposal to the vote, I will also call on the representatives of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission who has been considering this law to make its point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1267	Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been considering this law but has not taken into account this proposal, which has now been presented by the Vice-President. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, I would only plead on this proposal, which concerns making a previous decision prior to the accession of the law to make this House a decision on the symbols of the BiH state. Article 1 Bosnia and Herzegovina's constitution says BiH's symbols will be established by the Parliamentary Assembly and after these symbols will be approved by the BiH presidency. So, making a decision on BiH symbols can also be by making the law 15 on BiH's anthem, the Law on the flag and the Law on the coat of arms that are at the same time symbols of BiH's laws was already passed, so I don't think it is necessary now to make a preliminary decision of this house on BiH's anthem, but that it is enough for the decision to come down to the adoption of the law on an anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1268	Thank you. Mr. Banjac Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1269	First of all, I don't understand why we open up so many discussions and why so many words to a formal legal procedure. Is there really a need to derivate the Constitution, everything the lady or missus said confirms the right to make the decision that I was talking about? Please, the decision is not the same as the law. You know what the decision is, you know what the law is, whether there's a need to explain it now. I don't think there are any facts that contradict my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1270	Thank you. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1271	Please, I have the need to read that point to which the gentleman is called from the Constitution of BiH and which reads: Article 1 point 6 which contains the symbols: “Bosnia and Herzegovina will have those symbols as decided by its Parliamentary Assembly and approved by the Presidency.” Does this mean that it is necessary to make a special decision on each of these symbols, if two laws have already been passed which have established the flag and coat of arms of BiH, why now retroactively make a decision on the symbols of BiH. The High Representative has brought in on the basis of the authorisation referred to in point 11. The Bonjour law on flag and coat of arms in this way will lead us to the opportunity of the High Representative to pass this law if we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1272	Thank you, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1273	It seems to me that we're talking the same thing here, and then in the end we only send a different message. There's no obstacle to us making this decision right now. We were supposed to bring it back sooner, but we didn't, so let's fix that mistake. It is not said here that every law will make a special decision, we now decide that the symbols of BiH are anthem, flag and coat of arms and thus legalise what was previously made, we can do so in two minutes and move to the agenda point, which will be the law on BiH's anthem. I don't think anything really is controversial, and that's how we respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1274	We are continuing to discuss this agenda point. 16 Does Someone Want To Take A Word? Unless one of the MPs wants to explain his point of view? Mr. Banjac in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1275	I don't see any reason for this many words. I think it would have been far better if we'd spent this on the anthem law and there if we'd talked. Gentlemen, once again, I ask that this high house respect the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1276	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1277	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't understand this problem. It has been said that the House of Representatives decides and decides by law. The Constitution does not say that a decision should be made before, but it is said to decide and it decides by law as we have previously decided. I don't see any problem. So he decides by law the most impoverishable way possible. The Constitution does not say that we should make a decision before and then make laws based on that decision, etc. I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1278	I'd like to ask you, Mr. Silajdžić, to read this. I'm asking you to read it correctly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1279	I'd love to. Bosnia and Herzegovina will have those symbols set by its decision by the Parliamentary Assembly and confirm the presidency. So she decides. Just a little bit, please. Do you think the law isn't a decision? We can decide by law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1280	The law is a decision, but the question is whether we will accept three symbols, two symbols, one symbol. It's decidently defined here that these are three symbols by decision and then we move on to the laws.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1281	Since we've made a decision by law that there are two symbols.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1282	I'm sorry, there's a lot of dispute here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1283	Are you questioning those laws? 17
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1284	I'm not questioning it. I have a question.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1285	Then it's all clear. So this law also decides that we have an anthem. I don't see the real reason, otherwise when I'm out to say, right now in front of the Council of Ministers, we want to work here. I cannot understand that the Parliamentary Assembly today does not make any decisions that will help the Council of Ministers to continue to work. So the problem isn't with the Council of Ministers. The problem is making decisions in this House. There's a tight throat here and it's not in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1286	Thank you. Mr. Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I think things are getting unnecessarily complicated again. We must respect the BiH State Constitution as the strongest act of law, then the laws passed by this Parlaemnt and not be able to derivate the law that is being passed by some decision. So that's the order in which these decisions are in force, so based on the Constitution, we're making a law on sybmolims, this time the law on an anthem. And maybe more symbols will be needed, and we'll agree on that. So we have a coat of arms, a flag and an anthem. There are countries that have more symbols. So we'll see what we do next. At this point, I advocate that the law be passed and that we respect this procedure even legally I do not think it is possible by decision to amend the law because the decision is a lower level of the act taken by the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1288	Thank you. Would anyone else like to take part in the debate? President, I suggest you put it to a vote. Of course. We'll put Mr. Banjac to the vote. The proposal of a group of MPs from a group of parties and as you heard Mr Banjac read the motion for a decision. She's short and you heard her. I put that motion to the vote. Who is it for the predstanvički of Representatives to adopt a decision as read by Mr. Banjac? Please raise your hand who's in. Of the 35 MPs present, 11 voted for it, it doesn't take most of them to win, and it doesn't need to be done by entities, but by entities. Who's against this decision please raise your hand. Three against it. Who's restrained? 15 abstentions. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1290	Please, if there's been a quorum before the vote, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1291	No problem, we'll do it again. 35 were MPs when we started working. I ask the Members of Parliament to raise their hands to re-establish the MPs present. We're establishing a quorum. 34 MPs present. We'll do it again. We've established a quorum, based on a fixed quorum, I want us to re-voting - 34 present MPs... Who is it for the motion decision, how did Mr. Banjac read it? - Eleven for it. Who's against it? - Three. Who's restrained? So 20 abstentions, 3 versus and 11 for. The motion for a decision did not receive the necessary majority to be adopted. We are moving to discuss the proposal for a law on the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I again call on the representatives of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, which has been considering this request to make their views known.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1292	At its meeting, the Commission discussed the proposal for a law on the national anthem, which was submitted by the Office of the High Representative of Bosnia and Herzegovina and after the debate was held, found that the law complies with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and with the positive legislation in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the same time, the Commission considered amendments submitted by one MP in the Assembly House of Representatives and with the Office of the High Representative, who proposed the law, agreed that certain amendments should be incorporated into the text of the Law, which are amendments concerning the entry into force of this law, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - that is eight days from the publication - and the amendment concerning the members themselves, that breach of the national anthem constitutes a punishable act. The Commission also agreed with the Office of the High Representative to make an adequate translation of this Law, since the versions in the local languages - Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian, did not correspond to the original English version of the law, so that, after the law was translated, certain legal and technical shortcomings were corrected by the Office of the High Representative, so that the Commission proposes that the Law be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1293	Thank you. Noting that an integral part of the Law on the held anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the music part, i.e. the orchestral part that has been proposed in three versions of the audio recording, all three versions have been delivered to all the clubs of the MPs of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to listen and to be able to make known about one, second and third variants. So, I note that before the vote on Law 19 itself, we will need to make a statement and adopt one of the proposed three variants of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem. I'm opening a debate for the MPs. Since there are no reports. Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1294	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the national anthem. So, today, we should make certain remarks and discuss the Law in principle and make concrete amendments so that, probably, at the next session, we can adopt this law completely. We have considered this Law and compared it to the Law on the coat of arms and the Law on the flag. In addition to these texts, we also consider that these laws should be brought into line and that we delete certain things from this Law on the basis of this. So we suggest that the draft law on the national anthem, as a name, be changed as with these two symbols -- is called the Draft of the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1st, 2, 3rd and 4th, as well as strongly defined that this law regulates Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem and regulates its use as a symbol of the state, and everything else below where the state figures - means that the anthem - the term "state" is deleted by the "hymney of Bosnia and Herzegovina" is the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. So it's in accordance with the coat of arms and flag laws. Furthermore, we suggest that point 5 be inserted in Article 5 and that Article 6 be deleted and point 5 be defined. And on other occasions in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is no need to leave - an anthem can be performed, and then leave it so indefinitely, that clearly in Article 5(5), it defines this attitude as read. Article 7 remains and we have shared such an amendment here today with all MPs and we insist on voting on them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1295	Thank you. Mr. Deretić, then Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1296	Dear colleagues, I would also fully support Mr. Rakić's discussion, with me just looking back on a few things. So, termologically when it comes to certain directories here, I would point out the following: So, in Article 1. The draft of this law, which is here for us, comes from this - in Article 1 literally states: “This Law establishes the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and determines its use as a symbol of the state.” We've all accepted the Dayton Agreement. The Dayton Agreement is an extremity act and we have committed all acts of Bosnia and Herzegovina to be adopted on the basis of the Dayton Agreement. Unfortunately, in this draft, the person who proposed it did not respect that fact, so he just used this phone book, or termnologically used the directory “maintain” that is not mentioned anywhere in the Dayton Agreement. Only Bosnia and Herzegovina is mentioned in the Dayton Agreement. In this context, I am once again starting from the fact that the noun “maintain” should be left out for the simple reason that Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I have had the opportunity to prepare for this session to very much question literature and, unfortunately, when it comes to the form and 20 types of state organisation, this form - therefore, the state arrangement in the legal theory I did not find anywhere. I don't even know how to speak English, but I consulted my colleagues and even in the original text in the English language, Bosnia and Herzegovina is just mentioned as something that looks like a state. So we all know that otherwise Bosnia and Herzegovina still, looking back from a formal-law aspect, we can't even put it in a free country, we're fighting the truth -- it has some features of a free state -- we're fighting against not being a unitary state. Unfortunately, the regulations of some try to create a unitary, centralised state, even certain provisions of international organisations and recommendations go into this sense, which I, as the MP of the Radical Party of Republika Srpska, who I represent the voters of the Radical Party of Republika Srpska, will never be able to support such a concept and a proposal. Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other hand, is not even a complex state. I have to explain why I'm against this, a colleague you have to be a little patient, you have to learn to be patient, if anything else, then at least be polite. When you speak, I will listen very carefully and raise my hand to the line. I'm not giving a lecture, I'm just explaining why I'm against having the noun “maintain” still in the Draft. I have to explain it. So, it's precisely that this term, for this reason, can't raise my hand or be so, and it's also not about Bosnia and Herzegovina when it comes to the form of state planning, not even in some mixed form of state organisation. Therefore, in order not to open up, I look at from my point of view, a particular controversy, and that I would not be making yet certain questions that should really be mentioned here, I think that the term “state” is too high, that it is not in the Dayton Agreement and, in that sense, I suggest that it be left out of the Draft as it is. I also believe that Article 6 in the Draft of this Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina is too high, given that Article 5 of this Draft is decidently indicated in which cases Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem is being performed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1297	Thank you. Mrs. Čolo, then Mr. Silajdžić. Replica - Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1298	Mr Deretić, an MP, said that in Dayton, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not mentioned as a state. I must, unfortunately, note that we are going back a few steps, I thought this issue was resolved by the Dayton Constitution and subsequent debates, at the start of the action of the state parliament. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state in accordance with Article 1. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Excuse me, I'll read it. This is a very important question. I hope we never come back to this question again. From what I am about to read, it clearly follows that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state, of course, if we respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm reading a Cyrillic version. Article 1 - Bosnia and Herzegovina, Continuity - the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name is now Bosnia and Herzegovina - continues its legal existence under international law as a state, with an internal structure modified by this Constitution and with existing international-21 recognised borders. It remains a Member State of the United Nations and as Bosnia and Herzegovina can retain membership or request membership in organisations under the United Nations system, as well as other international organisations. If only a country is to be added, it may be a member of the United Nations and other organisations. The whole world recognises Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, from the European Union, the United States, Russia, China and all other countries. Diplomatic relations have been established with these countries. So let's not go back, Bosnia and Herzegovina is the state in line with what I read. Thank you very much. I have - the replica was Mrs. Čolo's first, and then Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1299	I also had a line to Mr. Deretić, who spoke more from this pay phone as a legal theorist, not as a lawyer of the positives who deals with law in everyday life. The state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers said, has continuity as a state and it has its symbols and these are state symbols and I think the OHR was wrong in adopting the Law on the flag and coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it left out the name of these laws to be a state coat of arms and a national flag. I think we should go along with this, pass the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is one impulse of the Office of the High Representative or us when we pass these laws, which the Office of the High Representative has adopted on a provisional basis, to amend in their name the word “State” in the text of the Law. I'd just like a little bit more before Mr. Deretić comes out, and it's about -- is this about the bill or the bill? In this House's parliamentary procedure, we don't have a proper procedure, we're actually going with the law in two phases -- whether the law goes first in the Draft, and then in the proposal, it's not defined. If this is the Law in the draft, as Mr Deretić claims, and I don't know who it was before, then this law would not have been amended, but would have gone to public debate, so all of us would have pleaded and submitted their proposals and opinions. We had this dilemma on the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs - whether this Law is in the form of a draft or in the form of a proposal. Proposer, Mr. Šumaher has made it clear that this is the bill and, as such, it is going to be adopted today. Here is only a mistake - the name of the Law stands the Draft. I would like to invite Mr. Šumaher, who has given us this position of the Office of the High Representative - that this is a proposal. So, this is the final stage for law-making, that the bill should be amended, not that this law goes into public debate, then none of us here should submit amendments. Why did their colleagues submit amendments if they thought it was a draft?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1300	Mr. Deretić, let Spahić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1301	When I explained my position on this draft, because I got the preparatory material where it says - the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem - then I thought first of all, and that I have apostrophetically, the Dayton Agreement that is for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an extremity act. So, I didn't mention the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina for one moment, because I felt and now I believe that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina must comply with the provisions of the Dayton Agreement. So the provision of article number one. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which you have read, is absolutely clear to me. However, thank Bog, there is a Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina that will surely, in due course, have to give its word, among other things, exactly what you are talking about now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1302	Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1303	I also wanted, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and guests, to draw on one fact that this discussion about what has been commanded to do is not simply because the General Peace Agreement of Dayton is made up of a General Peace Agreement which has a very, very, very, very, very defined annexes and, of course, by that principle, we could say that all conventions on human rights and freedoms are also an integral part of this whole project. Therefore, I would like to return you to one fact-finding course - the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is an act on which this Parliament operates and we have a General Peace Agreement that regulates many other issues and which are guarantees of large forces, Contact Groups, neighbours etc. But the Constitution is a document based on which we act, and it is one of the only fundamental acts on which we act. When our fellow MPs proposed a special procedure, a decision, then a debate on the Law, etc. They were referring to that very constitution. On the other hand, there is not one part of the General Peace Agreement, nor in the Constitution, nor in annexes, where Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only at this point that Mr Silajdžić read, when it comes to continuity, which is undeniable, and I think that he has rightly turned his attention as co-chair of the Council of Ministers, that the matter should concentrate on what we are tasked with doing. Even immediately in another member, it is said that Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a democratic state that will act according to the law. We need to adopt one of these laws now. I absolutely cannot understand that in one case MPs are calling for the Constitution, as a supreme act -- looking for a point, a commad idt -- that in another case, when it comes to normal procedure, it would slip into the General Peace Agreement, looking for an opportunity to avoid the responsibility that we have as Parliament. We today have the law and responsibility to adopt it, or to consider it -- to decide which anthem is most acceptable to us, publicly or secretly. So I would suggest that we don't really turn this into a single space where we give a replica to things that are undeniable. I guess there is no room in Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliament in the House of Representatives, to open a debate on whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state or not. It's a declassified debate. I will remind you, the magnetogram may point to the previous three four sessions, that many of these MPs who are now reporting for the word, have called for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be a state and that it is indisputable. I have such a memory, I don't want to burden you with the team, but it's better when it's ticking and preparing, read your own statements. And it is absolutely undeniable that today we should join the vote on Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem. As is the national coat of arms, as is the flag of the state. It's in every democratic state that's most normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1304	Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1305	It's a little easier for me now, but now I hear I'm not lonely when they say the Office of the High Representative made a mistake. I thought she just made a mistake when she criticized me for obstruction, what I was looking for, now I hear there's another one. However, there is one problem - Ms. or Mrs. Čolo forgets that the High Representative is in charge of interpreting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I highly doubt that the institution that was responsible by accident wrote exactly in two laws, which she wrote. It wasn't written by accident. Second, there's something else I need to read here. I'm not a lawyer, but I'm hanging out with people, so I've learned some of it. Here he says, "The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name is now Bosnia and Herzegovina, continues its legal existence under international law as a state." Now, I'm going to tell you something: If this were the following: “The Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state whose official name is Bosnia and Herzegovina” things would have been very different. For it is said that the legal norm previously stated has power, or applies if it is derivated by the following text. And this is about derogating the next text. So, gentlemen, things aren't exactly like that, and I think because of the very clear procedure and there was a lot of debate on the subject where the lawyers said it wasn't a classical state, that it was something between the Federation and the Confederation, etc., that I'm not discussing the subject now because it's not the point of the agenda. I believe that there is also a name under the quotes and it is called “Bosnia and Herzegovina”, and we are now bringing an anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I believe that the Office of the High Representative has not made a mistake, because they know well how to interpret the Constitution and I believe in their interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1306	Please, as you have been reported, I will now read: Silajdžić, Deretić, Špirić, Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1307	Dear colleagues, I did not expect today to be the issue of whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state or not, and I cannot cross some newspapers that were introduced here today. Unfortunately, we've been going back a few years. A new category has been introduced, and this is an extremity act. That's what I heard from my colleague Deretić here. What does that mean, an extremity act? It has been said, as far as I understand, that the Peace Agreement is an extension act. This Annex is part of the Peace Agreement - an integral part and not a single part is commanded by the other part. According to the Constitution, Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state and it's explicitly written. So, Dejton confirms Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, continues the continuity of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's no extravagant act. What kind of extravagant act can exist? So, it is a problem of me being obstructed by the work of this Parliament. Dejton addressed this issue and made it clear that Bosnia and Herzegovina's state -- continues under international law, within its borders recognised as such in the United Nations, and the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina can possibly discuss the compliance of 24 entity constitutions with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and cannot be questioned by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1308	Thank you. Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1309	Indeed here, Mr. Silajdžić, I must admit that I used that term when I said that the Dayton Agreement is an extremity act, but unfortunately, it's my job and I really think it's my subjective right to do it well and to know it well, because in Annex 4. There is a chapter in the Dayton Agreement that speaks only of the Constitution, and on the basis of this chapter it was meant to be made and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina was firsted, where it was literally indicated what the authorities of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina were. I'm very sorry that your discussion overcomes your position that I wanted to obstruct this draft that I have with my discussion. It wasn't my intention. To me, it was only my intention to base the Dayton provision that, indeed, when we bring, in my opinion, very important legal regulations, they would be adopted in accordance with higher normative acts than themselves. So, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Dayton Agreement. Article 1 Anexa 4 literally says: “The Continuity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name will now be “Bosnia and Herzegovina” will continue its right, existence, etc. etc. So, there's no mention of a country's term anywhere, and in that context, I suggested that this noun really be thrown out of the Draft. So, this is my view of it for the simple reason that this Annex 4 envisioned the competences of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we here already have from certain clubs certain initiatives for the adoption of certain legislation that regulate the area that comes absolutely out of the jurisdiction of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we will, normally, in particular, open the discussion when they are here on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1310	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1311	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're becoming masters to open up a series of dilemmas and where a normal man and a normal MP wouldn't want to open them, nor is there a possibility of anything, and that they want to derogate them. So, I don't understand that anyone's thinking that what it says in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, derived from the Dayton Agreement, is not admitting or saying today that it will not work in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think these colleagues who spoke are right, and so is Mr Silajdžić. I think that we've been dividing ourselves in two camps forever -- unfortunately, showing that something ugly has been happening here for the past six years and that we don't trust each other. The MPs took an oath and swore in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it is in vain that MPs who do not respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina are sitting here and will not speak to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But, I beg you -- we swear on a democratic world, democratic Western states, I want to ask, and I don't really know, does the hymn 25 of France say, "The Law on the State Anthem of France" or "The Law on the Anthem of France"? Let me do that once already - if it says there's no dispute. Don't let us open up dilemmas where they're really not there. Let's open a debate about the essence. Will this anthem enter the heart of all of us living in the space of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entities? Will we have the need to resist her? We can write in law whatever we want. I want common symbols to come across the warm reception of people, then I'm convinced we've built the symbols of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can argue about what the other side is going to put in the paper. And, second thing, I beg you don't let us rape the soul of the MPs and the people sitting here. It is a democratic procedure to discuss, to close the debate, to accept the views of the majority and those who are in the minority have no reason to be human. Let's start with a sequence of these things because we're going to open up a series of dilemmas at every point in the agenda. I beg to be understood that there are no those who are reluctant to speak those words or who read the Constitution in one way or another. I want to believe that they don't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1312	Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1313	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, guests, Ponović, that parts of the Dayton Act cannot be legally separated, in particular to oppose each other or to command each other in terms of the Framework Agreement and the Constitution, and I think it is quite clear. However, I expect, on my part and the MPs, to take into account the widest, sensitive issues like this, and not to be exposed, let's say, to the inaccuracies that can lead to false conclusions. counterpart Deretić said that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state is not mentioned at all in the General Framework Agreement. Article 1 ends, not to bother you, “against the territorial integrity or political independence of Bosnia and Herzegovina or any other state. Not directly - suggesting that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state. Article 10, I apologize for reading. "The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina recognise each other as sovereign and independent states within their international borders." So here it was, I would say, about replacing the state as characteristic and, if you will, not to say the basic forms of the political community, of the state as form of the political community as such and the character of the arrangements or relations within the political community, or the state. I would like to understand so much the differences for which the bridge was also a fellow Špirić who spoke before me. So let's not afford inaccuracy after all and make sure we don't change our plans, so to speak, in terms of the state as a form of a political community of neutral and kind of state-law order as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1314	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1315	When I agreed to go to the SDP list, the SDP MP's list for this Parliament, I accepted the obligation to try to contribute to the construction and operation of 26 joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning that Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, because we from the SDP never questioned whether Bosnia and Herzegovina was a state or not. I'm not a lawyer, but I know something from this area, and I have no intention of interpreting the Constitution here. For us, the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina accurately states that Bosnia and Herzegovina has continued the continuity of the activities of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that Bosnia and Herzegovina has continued this continuity as a state and we do not see it, there is no logic that its anthem is not called the state anthem. Even if we don't write in the Constitution, the people will call it the national anthem because they will refer to the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I guess that people live in a country, which is the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1316	ambasador Šumaher.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1317	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is a debate without any meaning and I kindly ask you to discuss the first item of the agenda. First of all, I must say, I'm very glad that the SDS delegates raised this issue, because this clearly took off the mask on this side of the Dayton Agreement, that is. That's just nice words, nice speech. This just confirms the opinion of the High Representative and the OHR. If the party does not change its mind, it does not change its behaviour that it does not need a place in the ruling structures in Republika Srpska. Because the government under the auspices of this party will never have the support of the International Community. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to the point. It really doesn't matter what your internal laws say or indicate whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state or not. I would especially recommend to the Republika Srpska gentleman that he has lectures on this issue by experts on international law. Whether you're a state or not is the question the International Community needs to decide on. It is an issue of international recognition, and in this sense it was the most significant decision that Dayton and Bosnia and Herzegovina continue to exist as a state. May I quote point 1 of the first set of agreed basic principles, which clearly states that "Bosnia and Herzegovina continues its existence and its international recognition is continued." Whether the word “main” is mentioned in one of your laws is really not relevant. We will not question infallibility, I assure you that in this case OHR did not make a mistake. In addition, after hearing this discussion, I would like to refer to my letter of 8 February which I delivered to the chairman and chair of the Working Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, which clearly states that we have delivered this Law in the form of the Proposal and we expect it to be adopted as such at this session. And finally, after hearing all these arguments, I think someone should point out that even the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of the Dayton Peace Agreement and that aneks 10 makes it clear that the High Representative has ultimate authority when it comes to interpretation in this very sensitive and serious area. I would ask you to keep this in mind. I would ask you to continue the debate on the first item of the agenda and I think now, three years after the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement and after three international conferences - in London, Bonn and Madrid, I must expect local politicians to take their commitments and start making decisions, not delaying decisions. And, in that sense, I think it would be a positive signal for the International Community if the deputies took part in a constructive debate in order to make one constructive decision rather than delay decisions until further notice. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1318	Thank you. Mr. Banjac replica and Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1319	Dear Members of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy High Representative, I am extremely sorry that you do not know that all of these here are not SDS. I have a problem one -- whoever blames something says they'll be declared a member of the SDS. The proposal to abolish the "state" directory was presented by Vito Rakić, who is a member of the Coalition of the Sloga and the Serbian People's Union, and the second proposal was supported by Deretić, Mr Miodrag, who is a member of the Radalana party of Republika Srpska. The third one was spoken by Mirko Banjac, who was in touch here, who was a member of the Serbian Democratic Party and only troubled the legal guidance in the Constitution, and could not slow down what it says. The fourth one spoke Nikola Špirić from the SDS list, which is called a tranquilizer, and you called us that we took off the masks. Oh, my Bog, everyone here will not be declared a member of the Serbian Democratic Party. Therefore, I ask you to spare this party and its representatives what they did not say, and it seems to me that I have shown by work and work in this skuština, which I can and the chairman - two, also confirm that I want to work and co-operate. Please, I can understand the impatience of every species, but the arguments are worth looking into. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1320	Mr. Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1321	Ladies and gentlemen, I haven't responded to the replica, but I'd like to make some clarifications. First of all, I did not mean to raise any question and ask the question of BiH's statehood. I made it clear what I was proposing, and in article 1, I suggested the following. This law determines BiH's anthem and determines its use as a symbol of the state. I think it's clear enough that it's a symbol of the state, not that it's crawling in each member two or three times the state, state, state. I simply watched it from the point of view of the coat of arms law, from the standpoint of the Law on the flag and by looking at the laws on the anthem of other states, France, Italy, etc. I'm sorry this caused controversy, but I haven't set BiH as a state for one moment. And I think we've entered into a ridiculous debate that doesn't lead us to anything, and we can make decisions on very important issues and others.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1322	Mrs. Radžević, then Mr. Lagumdžija, then Deretić, then Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1323	My fellow MPs, what I answered for was partly said before me by Mr. Vito Rakić and Mr. Banajc, but there was something left and they didn't say, so I went out for a pay phone anyway. However, I will also remind of the 42 MPs of this high house we are only three members of the SDS and believe us, do not attribute to us what we would like – a crucial role in this high house. We don't have it, we can't have it. So by that we're really side factors here. What's left and why I came out is to speak to Mr. Šumaher publicly like this 28 because he's speaking to the public from this same place, to you and to us in the SDS. It really offends me as a man, not as a political worker, to read his lesson and beech to us who are also 50-year-olds as humans. I don't know who he's coming to and where he learned it was democratic to talk to people. First, six months as an MP here, I've never had the honor of inviting us SDS MPs as new deputies of this high house and talking to us, first of all, to see what kind of people we are, what politicians, what MPs. Respecting his high function, I think it is really not the right thing to do, that such threats here are pronounced, in addition through the SDS and the threats he has made here, he has spoken to the vast majority of the Serb people and the population of the RS who in the last elections have shown that, despite all the evils that speak for this party, he still bestowed the most trust on this party. So I would really like to ask for the future appreciation of both us as people and this party as a political party now in the opposition. And as for the very point of the agenda, I would really like to underline it once again, although my colleague from the RS-style coalition has already said, no one here argues that BiH is a state, but we wonder why it has to stand next to the anthem so many times state, so state, so state. Is anyone afraid that this country is in danger of not being a country, we're not afraid, we admit it's a state. But the anthem really only has a state, no one else. And the coat of arms has a community, so no one would ask there to be a state coat of arms, a state coat of arms, a state coat of arms. Therefore, there is enough of the BiH anthem, and it is known what BiH is, is neither a municipality nor a county nor a county, it is known to be a state, therefore we are in favour of it being an anthem of BiH, and no one is questioning that the state, as it is under the agreement, will be seen, and will be seen in the future. However, in this way I argue responsibly do not contribute to being a state. Because since I've already gone too far to accept that my country is now really wondering if I accept it as a country at all. And I really honestly accepted her as a state. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1324	Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Lagumdžija, but in any case, it's good that we come to consensus and believe he's a Bosnian state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1325	Appreciation of colleagues chairing, respected colleagues, supporting Mr. Rakić's discussion, who had just said that we should try to bring an end to this quote: "free debate", I contribute to bringing an end to what has been described as a pointless debate. Probably a good part of it will be characterized that way. I'd like to ask for a few things and get over it. First, I would suggest that you put this proposal to a vote. So the proposal we have ahead of us. I thank Mr. Šumaher for explaining to us what he gave us in writing that he was working on the proposal and not the draft, so he reduced a lot of unnecessary debates. I would like to turn Mr. Šumaher also, to the fact that I quote the question” Is the international community deciding whether we are a state” closed quote. Mr. Šumaher doesn't decide that, the international community has long decided that, and you're here to implement what the international community has decided. So it's decided and it's the end of every story about it. Unless it's clear to anyone, someone loves or dislikes us, if I'm waiting for Mr. Šumaher and the Office of the High Representative when he's already honoring us here with this presence and his exhibitions that some of the consequences are drawn from what's being said here. I think it's quite 29 elemental order for the Office of the High Representative to take appropriate steps towards every individual who doesn't recognize the Dayton category here. If any of us here have anything that doesn't like it and in Dayton let's keep it to ourselves at home otherwise he'll be carrying the concubines he's supposed to be carrying. When asked why the word of the states is repeated over and over again, because it is obviously not clear to some. I always repeat equal entities and equal peoples because some people in the story of the state forget to say it's about equal entities and equal nations. I repeat that because we need all three of these to repeat both the BiH state and the equal entities and the equal nations so that we can all find it easier to figure out what category it is. If the Office of the High Representative does not see from these discussions who considers this a state that considers this equal entities and peoples, then we can put one proposal on the vote of a resolution, that this parliament adopts that it says: that this parliament will work in the future to create BiH state institutions in accordance with the Dejonton Agreement. So whoever doesn't like it gets out of this Parliament. And I expect the Office of the High Representative not to interpret whether we are a state but to make sure that the things that are opposed to the fact that we are a state or that we are equal here to sanction them properly. And finally, Mr. Genjac, once again, I'd like to ask you to channel us to speak and to go in favour of bringing this debate to an end, so you must put this motion to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1326	Thank you. Of course, I'm a registered debater, and I've got three people registered for now, and I'm asking that we really end up trying as short as possible of our discussion. So Mr. Deretić, then Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1327	Madam Chairman, I'm really sorry that someone understood my discussion, although it's not directly said, as a bullshit debate, but I don't think it's like that, I do even when I think someone's saying it, I'll never say it like that. I'll keep my opinion on that. Therefore, he would also fully support the discussion, i.e. Mrs Desa's replica, of the MPs. I'm not afraid of any sanctions here Mr. Lagumdžija, you know I don't think I've done anything for sanctions, and even if I have to file for sanctions, But I will never let myself say what I believe in this high house and BiH's largest legislative body that I should say. Mr. Šumaher, first of all, is obviously not a familiar man, that I, as an MP in the eyes of the preparation of this assembly, got a draft, so I didn't get a proposal, does Mr. Šumaher know the difference between the draft and the suggestion that I don't know right now, that's one thing. Secondly, I, as an MP, have the right to give my opinion on the draft law that has been delivered to me as an MP, on the one hand, to give my opinion and to put my view on the draft legislation here on the agenda. I also suggested that Article 6 be omitted in my first discussion, as I now suggest that Article 7 should leave out the penal act and Article 7 should read as follows: Insubordination of an anthem will be regulated by a special law. So that's Mr. Chairman of what I have to say and in the future I'm asking nicely to discuss in the sense that someone gives himself the right to say that something sucks is 30 etc. I ask you to react and all in the name of preserving the integrity of this body here and in that sense I ask normally to protect not only the name but every MP who has the right to state his position here whether we agree with him or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1328	Thank you. Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1329	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Ambassador, we have a point on the agenda of the draft law on the BiH National Anthem, but the chairman should have met us and we all received the letter from Ambassador Šumaher that this draft should be moved to the proposal, and we also have the Commission's opinion on constitutional and legal affairs, which has agreed with the proposal of Mr. Ambassador Šumaher. Since this is a proposal from the Office of the High Representative, I would ask you to know if it's a proposal or a draft. If the draft is we can have general discussions, opinions, we can also exhaust ourselves by defining point 1. The Constitution and return it to the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, if he is in the proposal today, which he suggested and requested, the Ambassador there, we should act here to amend the text to make sure that the amendments are spoken whether or not they are accepted by the amendment, and then to approach the vote afterwards and to determine at the end the vote on the law, if it is in the proposal and from what I have is the law in the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1330	Thank you. Mr. Skopljak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1331	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really answer often, I don't feel much of a need for that, but this time I think I should say a few words. And they will be in the spirit of reconciliation of the attitudes that we have expressed here. There is no doubt that BiH is a state, it is a state and my opinion is that our work, as far as I am here for two sessions, both Mr Banjac and Mr Genjac are going really correctly. I personally don't have any objections regarding the deal and the conversation. So in preparation for the sessions together we are correct and find common ground. I hope it will be in this House soon. In the spirit of this, while respecting Mr Lagumdžija's discussion, who has repeatedly potentiated here, I have made one gentleman's proposal that we take part in the preparation of meetings in a number of people, and I believe that we will find a compromise solution there as well. What's being discussed here for me is the question and fear of how much BiH as a state will be a democratic society. I think the burden we are carrying from the past is, unfortunately, the problem of this discussion that we are having here. And in that spirit, I call on you and I ask you and I suggest that if you want us to join the vote for the first point and confirm this law that we are already trying to support here, or we are trying to convince each other that he can go as he is and I will say the most about the future of BiH whether we will make it a real democratic state or not. In that spirit, I invite you to plead with this law and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1332	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. 31
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1333	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I personally think that this misunderstanding has taken place as a consequence of perhaps at some point a clumsy interpretation of the clause that should stand or should not stand before BiH, and that no one has really asked whether it is a state or not. I think that's where the consensus has been reached, and it would be good if we don't waste any more time on that. I think the misunderstanding has turned out to be that there is no in front of BiH under the Dayton Constitution, nor the Federation, nor the Union, nor the confederations, nor the republic, etc. As a state, no one has really asked a question and to overcome it. I'd go back to the competition on the agenda and say the next. For the second time, we are questioning the sessions because some very important acts have not been precisely defined. Last time, a parliamentary group left the session because the act that came from the BiH presidency's office was not legally written. We have another act that's a little confusing. In all the places in all the papers we have received is the draft law on the BiH national anthem, and even in this paper that we received today at the session and signed by Ambassador Šumaher in several places stands in this draft law paper. Let's learn from this and make sure that all the acts that come through this council's legal services don't waste any time on it. When it comes to BiH's anthem law, I would like only one brief comment on the proposal tabled by Mr Rakić. It consists of two parts. One formal who suggested that it was too often pointed out that it was a state anthem, believing that this would be understood if it stood up in one place and the other essentially it was that Article 5. That's why when there's a vote, we ask that these two things be clearly separated. I would like to remind you that the co-chair, or now the chairman, has announced one break in two hours and has forgotten that break at two o'clock, so I suggest that before we continue this session, let's take that break so that we all do something, what he has announced and that those who are leading the meeting, all of this which we have discussed reconciliation so far, and to define the exact point of the agenda. My suggestion today is that we consider this a proposal. If that's any help, let's talk today about the BiH Anthem proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1334	Well, Mr. Dokić reminded me, although I haven't forgotten and I'm trying to finish this whole before, a very practical solution would be the following if you agree to overdrive all three versions of the partition now and then take a break to get some of these variants to the heart. And then after that, we'll make a statement on the amendments and on the version. So I ask the Technical Service to release these three versions. I would like to note that they will be played under ciphers, in order of alphabetical order called ciphers, first code “Intermeco”, second “Polychimni” third “Y”. This order will release the orchestral parameters of this variant, first Intermeco, second Polihimni and third Y. When we listen to these three variants of pauses. Anthem We'll continue at 4.15. 32 Pause
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1337	Dear Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I think this debate should be concluded by compromise, as has been done so far by compromise. It is not disputed to speak, and when we disagree, because I am here in front of this House saying that the statement says, when there is no difference in anything else, then I don't care whether I exist or don't exist because the other one makes up for me in everything. Therefore, I ask you to understand all of our discussions just so that one diversity of birth and a new value and I would like to see it that way. It is not disputed that we need to agree on something that will not disturb the Constitution, which will satisfy me to say to the population, citizens of all nationalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore propose that Article 1 contains a text that makes it quite clear: “This Law establishes the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as the "Himna") and defines its use as the symbols of the state, making it clear that everything is said to be Bosnia and Herzegovina’s state. Everything else is too high. It seems to me that we're afraid of each other and that it's all giving birth to such an illogicality and that it's connected to the Constitution. The constitution said they were state symbols and here we say it's nice that it's a symbol of the state. Thus, in the world it is unknown to say the national anthem - the German national anthem, France and so on, there is no need to do so. One word says what's what as a symbol of the state, and that makes it clear. As far as - I just want to conclude, I have no objection to gentlemen lecturing, I am absolutely in agreement with Mr. Rakić's further proposals and what Mr. Deretić said - it would not be directed to stand here "punishing itself", but to pass a special law, which would be much more instructive than what we do in this Law. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1338	Thank you. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1339	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since the essence of the dispute of this syntagma is a state anthem, it seems to have rested on the grounds that, first of all, it is an unnecessary repetition in a good number of members, that is, in most of the members of the proposed Law, and in full agreement with what Mr Banjac has made, that this law should be brought into line and finally adopted in a way that goes in a line of compromise. It seems to me that the compromise could be in the fact that the Law and indeed called the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the first article would say “this law establishes the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, and the brackets would remain instead of “the national anthem”, so that the following articles would be: Article 2, 3, etc. He mentioned the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem is the state anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the anthem consists of orchestrary, etc. 33 I think this is one solution that is compatible enough and in some way removes the shortcomings heard in Mr Dokić's design on excessive repetition of the term of state, and the term “state” or “state” is also legally confirmed in the name of the law and in the first member of this law. I think this proposal could direct the debate towards the final vote of the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1340	Anyone else want to take part in the debate over the text of the law? If not, I'll try to narrow this down and I think we're close to a solution. It would be about compromise to remain the Law of the State Anthem is about the Law - that the first member should remain as he is here, and that in all the following members, wherever the "state anthem" is mentioned, it is, as it is said, replaced by "theming" and I think that the compromise is in this. [[speaks from the scene]] In the further text of the anthem. Article 2 - the name of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem is "the state anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina" remains that name under quotes. So, please let's read it once to make it look. I think the compromise is close and we're close to agreeing and achieving what we want. First, the title. "The Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina" Article 1. This law lays down the state anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as the "Himna") and defines its use as the symbols of the state. Article 2 The name of Himna Bosnia and Herzegovina is "The State Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Article 3 The hymn consists of an orchestral partition, which is in addition to this Act as its integral part. Article 4 The copyright in Himna retains Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 5 The anthem is performed... etc. Article 6 The anthem can perform 34 _________________E, there is an intervention and I think it should stop there. If you need Mr. Proposer to say what he needs to say one more time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1344	I would support this amendment to article 7. - Disrespect of the state anthem will be arranged, actually sanctioned by a special law, and disagreement with the laws of coat of arms already passed and flag upon the confirmation of the law, I think we'll have room for that, possibly, to influence if this difference is significant to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1345	Here you go, Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1346	Please, I've got nothing against this attitude delivered by MP Hilmo Neimarlija. However, I would just like to point out what might happen. We don't have -- the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal law -- we have a criminal offence to destroy federal symbols. I also believe the Criminal Law of Republika Srpska, because it is a crime that has been taken over from the former SFR Criminal Code - we have a criminal act that has been sanctioned, which is destruction, among other things, of the state flag, coat of arms and other symbols or mockery of the message or others. And if we define it this way, it remains an obligation to make sure that the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the next period, which I believe will come safely before this Parliament this year, is prescribed as a particularly criminal act. And just to get it into the session log. I mean, it can do as the MP said - that we have an obligation to prescribe it as a special crime, because it's the only law that can regulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1347	So, if Article 7 is formulated in this way, it imposes an obligation to determine it as a criminal law and to enter the record that we have agreed to sanction it as a special crime. That's not controversial. Please, as far as I can tell, we have a consensus. Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1348	Be careful whether it is necessary in the title to do this, if it is not in practice anywhere in the world - whether it really needs to be done, although we are at an alignment. Why do we have to? That's exactly why. I agree with everything you've said, except for this - in the name there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1349	Comrade Banjac, I think we've come -- one step, step two, step three, to the variant, and please read the text of the law that could finally, therefore consensus on the vote. "The Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina". This law lays down the state anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as "them") and defines its use as a symbol of the state. Article 2 The name of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem is "The National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Article 3 36 The hymn consists of an orchestral partition, which is in addition to this Law, as its integral part. Article 4 The copyright on the anthem retains Bosnia and Herzegovina. Article 5 The hymn is performed - and all the above - with this position 4 in Article 5, which reads: "On other occasions in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Article 6 becomes a member of the 7th and reads: “I apologize, can I consult with club presidents for two minutes? Break five minutes. I'm just one style correction. Article 5 states “The hymn is being performed”. So, - “The anthem can be performed” Please just a moment. In Article 5, there is a binding formulation at the beginning. So, - “Himna will be performed”, St. 4. is transferred “In other times according to the Constitution and the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina.” So here is the point of the anthem not being performed, but the anthem being performed. Therefore, the anthem will be performed. You don't do an anthem alone. So this is a language correction, stylish. So,” the anthem will be performed” - Article 5. Please, therefore - Article 6 becomes an ex-member of 7 who says: "unrespect for the state anthem" - disrespecting an anthem will be sanctioned by special laws. Article 7 shall become Article 8. - which reads: “This law takes effect eight days from the day of publication in the “Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina”. So, we have a consistent text of the law. In order to be able to declare the Law, we must approach the elimination of variations of the musical part, i.e. orchestral partitions, and come to a version that in this way - as it with the largest number of votes becomes an integral part of this Law and afterwards, in this text of the Law and in this version which gets the largest number of votes to be fully declared. So the Constitutional and Legal Commission has proposed that we declare these three versions that we have just heard. I would suggest 37, by a secret vote, that we declare ourselves first about 3, and then in the second round of voting -- the two who get the largest number of votes -- that among them the votes that will get the largest number of votes, and in this way we will eliminate one in the first round, in the second round, the second round and there will be only one version -- therefore, the version that has received the largest number of votes and it becomes an integral part of this Law, which we have declared and agreed on and then fully on that text of the Law and on that one version we vote by adopting the Law, voting on it. So I think we're clear here. Just two technical things before this. I'm going to ask someone of the experts who worked in the jury to choose these, to explain to the MPs from a musical and professional aspect. And, secondly, after that, I will propose the composition of the Commission to conduct a vote count. I'm asking someone from the experts to take their word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1351	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Dr. Vinko Krajtmer, a professor at the Music Academy and one of the 10 members of an independent commission formed by the High Representative, Mr. Vestendorp. In March of last year, we were invited to prepare a contest, the competition was prepared for nearly two months, it was agreed what should be put in place as a request. With regard to the purity of music and the essence of what this anthem should reflect. On June 21st – a competition was launched and sent across the Internet to the whole world, public reports from other countries were very interested and a response to this so widespread competition was beyond all of our expectations. In a contest to draw up sensitive details, what this anthem in this, not to say, should represent a delicate moment in BiH. We were in a dilemma whether perhaps in a certain way we suggest not to force national musical elements, traditional music, or to suggest that it be based on such traditional elements. In the end, we gave up all of this, counting on a conscious paper to choose and propose to you three proposals that are the best that according to those formal characteristics that have been extended, which are for an anthem very well known short forms with the initial and final part mostly repeated, and that's what we mostly got suggestions for. The competition, which was open for a full 2 months, received 49 works, of which 3 were declared invalid by the Commission because they did not meet all the requirements of the competition. We worked in several circles to put it this way, first we had detailed informational listening, spontaneously informative listening, without accessing any evaluation and elimination because almost 50 papers immediately decided that it was neither simple nor possible. After a month and a half, we started narrowing down circles. In 20 of these compositions there were certain dilemmas, and in the end we came to 8 which were almost equal to the suggestions that you had heard less than an hour and a half ago at delegate clubs. The three proposals that are here in front of you reflect, in our opinion, everything that a European anthem, an anthem of the European state should contain, is one very singing tune, sufficiently solemn with a contrasting middle part, which is a factal issue and purely psychological contrast, so that what makes an anthem the exalted is later repeating the first part or one additional third is one standard type of an anthem that in the whole world makes an anthem the way it is. 38 I do not know if I should tell you who the members of the Commission were, you are probably familiar with the members of the Commission, those seven members of the Commission who were also for the other two symbols, coat of arms and flag, and in this musical felt Mr. Esad Arnautalić – composer from Sarajevo, Mr. Milorad Penjalović, editor-in-chief of Radio Banjaluka and professor at the Music Academy in Banjaluca and I Vinko Krajtmer from Sarajevo. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1352	I thank the gentleman. I suggest, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1353	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, like anyone who wants to compromise honestly achieved I was pleased that at the end of this important job all the way until Mr. Co-chair suggested a way of voting. Now I just don't believe we've really talked about any compromise. If an exception is made and people vote on such an important matter, and we have asked for a number of other things a secret vote has not passed in this House, I will doubt the good intentions of the people for a compromise, and I will define them according to both the text and the phonic record in a way that every MP has the right. I think every time you end up bringing us in to undo some of the compromises that we have reached in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1354	Thank you. The proposal is therefore not to vote in secret. Please, I have stated that this is about the Commission's proposal for constitutional and legal issues on the technology of elimination and the selection of a final version of the music anthem. So, they've gone too far as to make that elimination, they've suggested it, I said it's a proposal from the Commission for constitutional and legal issues. I don't know if anyone here can recognize any attempt to compromise or do something that could cause any kind of skepticism. if I say that the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission has proposed that we come to an elimination in this way. So it's one proposal on how to get to one of the proposals that will end up with the most votes. Of course, if MPs accept that, if they do not accept that the vote is secretly left to vote publicly. So, the Commission's proposal for constitutional and legal issues is to secretly eliminate first between three and two, between two and one. To be clear to the end we don't see absolutely, nor do I need anything, this proposal came before compromise on the text of the law. He arrived from the constitutional and legal affairs commission on Monday. We will plead on how we are going to hold the vote, and in the end, whatever the Vairjant is eventually, it is the only one coming to the vote in the law and the law must be voted on, very publicly and very prescribed in the Rules of Procedure by most and thirds of the entity, etc. I propose that we make it clear whether we accept the Commission's advice on constitutional and legal issues to identify ourselves in a secret vote between these versions. This is the Commission's proposal for constitutional and legal issues. Who's in it for being secret. Here you go, Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1355	Mr President, 39 You have made a very correct proposal from the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs, but I would only be free to refer you to Article 7(3) of our Interim Rules of Procedure. I'll be free to read it so there won't be any dilemmas here about this proposal, which I respect as very correct. But given that there is a certain way of voting, I would ask that by respecting the provisions of this Interim Rules of Procedure to ask MPs first, and to declare whether the vote will be done as it has been voted so far, the vote usually takes place by hand, that is the first sentence, I have not taken the glasses, on an official request that the vote will be made by means of an alphabet or alphabetical order, starting with a member whose name the chairman draws a draw, if it is accompanied by an alphabet, if it is Bošnjak or Hrvat. The House of Representatives may decide to vote in secret on any issue in accordance with Rule 7(2) of this Rules of Procedure. So, my suggestions go in that sense, and besides the Commission's proposal that you first ask MPs whether they will make a public statement about this as they have done so far, and only after that to put the Commission's proposal forward, that is the right way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1356	Thank you. Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1357	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this discussion is really difficult and it's really groundless and that's why I felt the need to answer it. I think it's a mistake in the record of this Commission. Because we agreed on the Commission whether to go through in secret or in public. And then we finally came to the conclusion that it's best to decide here to be decided by the MPs. Obviously, it was inserted here, left behind to be at the first secret, and in the second part, if none of the anthem had a majority, then there were two who had the largest number of votes left to decide whether the secret or public vote would take place. However, the Commission was decided at the beginning to propose that MPs decide not to propose it to be a secret vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1358	Okay, thank you. Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1359	I usually want to pick up when big things are on the agenda, but unfortunately the sea and the so-called. small. First, at the session of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Šumaher had a proposal that the Constitutional Commission itself suggested that the possible narrowing of the variants of the anthem, because three members of the RS Commission did not attend the session of the Commission, and this was accepted by the Commission not to do so, but that all three proposals go to this session. Afterwards we considered how to come to the proposal and we proposed the next solution and I, without any possible connotations, suggest that in the first round, because it is easier to eliminate one proposal, possibly in a way that we agree on, can and secretly and publicly, we have to eliminate one in the first round, and in the second round eventually choose between the remaining two proposals. 40 I think it would be logical for the elimination of one proposal of three to be carried out in the first round by a secret vote, and then from those two to be defined and then we can vote publicly for one of those two proposals offered. I consider it a correct proposal and an invisible reason to raise some additional questions about it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1360	Thank you. I think this might be the solution. Some kind of compromise. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1361	Ladies and gentlemen, without the intention of telling anyone how to work. If Mr. Šumaher has a solution for everything, then we'd best all go home and have the man send us a written memo that says right. I have nothing against it either if this body makes such a decision in accordance with its own Rules of Procedure. Don't really freak us out with Mr. Šumaher, he's a decent diplomat who has his suggestions. It is not good for BiH's public either, then we must say that Mr. Šumaher is BiH's president. Let us, as MPs, decide on important issues in this country with full respect for Mr. Šumaher's proposal. I think every discussion is immaterial if you go out to us and tell us somewhere Mr. Šumaher. I have to say, I didn't hear Mr. Šumaher say that anywhere. Nowhere. He seems to have occasional consultations with those he has to keep telling right. The other thing is, there's a procedureal way of voting, like all other issues, and this is a very important question. I don't understand much in music I think Mr. Krajtman said the way people came up with three perfectly logical proposals and I think we have to respect every proposal equally, not knowing in advance that it's going to be eliminated. Let's go as exposed here and we'll vote. And the proposal it receives in line with the Rules of Procedure is the necessary majority of BiH's anthem. Unfortunately, it can happen precisely for these reasons that you won't tell the public not to pass one, and that's the result of the work of this representative council. Let's look ourselves in the face, why secretly, what we're hiding from our people if we say it was the professionals of an independent commission. I really don't know, I'm gonna take it since I like all three, all three solutions choose one of the solutions. What kind of eliminations are now in the beginning. We are going in accordance with the Rules of Procedure I really most kindly ask you not to do a favor or a high representative of the international community what you want to make of him here a man who is able to wipe out or impose everything. I really want to be cooperative and open a dialogue on everything. You won't scare us with this, Mr. Šumaher can dictate tonight and who isn't an MP, and I don't think the atmosphere in BiH is going to change, I really respect the representatives of the international community, Mr. Šumaher. Here, please, let us work in accordance with the rules in which we and those among other things helped us get to them. We stick to the Rules of Procedure and believe that we will come to a solution not to play hide-and-seek in front of the people who chose us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1362	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. 41
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1363	First, I think Mr. Špirić interpreted my mention of Mr. Šumaher absolutely in a way I wasn't talking about, and that's another story. But I have a fundamental question. Let's assume we're going to vote in public for what's-his-name. Three suggestions, all right. The vote finds that no proposal has received the required number of votes, whether it means that the vote on an anthem is over and that we do not have an anthem voted, or that it means that the anthem that received the smallest number of votes is waste, and the other two go further. If that means it's me for a public vote. But if that means that eventually not having enough votes in the first round means that we don't have a practically voted anthem, then I think there's a very risky warning here that can lead us to the fact that the online circumstances practically don't have two rounds of voting. That's one very important question, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking to clarify that, and then when we clear up the way we vote it, I don't think it's going to be a dispute.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1364	Short, then Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1365	I have one for this, of course, Mr. Kadić. We choose an anthem of BiH. We say that independent experts have worked and that all three hymns and singing and fine and beautiful. Let's try to declare the BiH anthem. Why did we start right from the beginning so that none of them could pass. Why elimination. Why now suddenly change the Psolovnik we've voted on? I want to believe we're going to vote the anthem. Make sure the anthem is voted on this side, too. Except if there's only one variant that you are for. I don't really know which one to vote for. But I'm not on the principle of elimination as you suggest. I'm not for that principle. Anything else can be agreed upon by the next session, unless one goes without the required number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1366	Thank you. Just in order, Mr. Banjac, Mrs. Muminagić, Havel and Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1367	Please, I think we're getting involved without any need. There's no need for this. It is clear here that all decisions are made in accordance with Art. 7th point 2nd suba and b. I'm not going to read it, you've read it. What Mr. Kadić says and what Špirić says I think the same thing is that the ants get to the anthem, you have to come up and we can't work like that to not get to the anthem. It's out of mind, but the fact is that the second round of voting can go to those anthems that get half the votes and at least as many entity votes as expected. Gentlemen, don't break the Rules of Procedure, don't do that. So what do we do, then this isn't worth it. So you won't vote according to the Rules of Procedure. It's something else. I'm asking you, if we're voting in secret, you know you have to let me vote in accordance with Article 7 of paragraph 2 under a and b. or in public under the same conditions. If he can't do that, I can't accept voting against the Rules of Procedure, and I accept that we must get to the anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1368	Thank you. Please, let's try to take it down. There is no commercially established way to come between three versions. That's not making a decision. It is not, if three versions of a solution are offered, so MPs vote for one of those three versions is not a decision-making process and can theoretically happen, or can theoretically happen, if it votes for three to not get a majority of it, but some of it has to get the largest number of votes. It's been settled businessly in that case. Let's do it the way you applied, but take this question down to discussion. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1369	That short period behind lunch seems to have made us happy for nothing that we will come to a compromise soon tonight. I guess we just fell asleep for a little while and we agreed so quickly, this is a joke. Let's start with the fact that we all speak honestly, that all three proposals we've heard tonight are acceptable to the BiH anthem. If anyone has reservations, I suggest we discuss it and then approach the vote, but there seems to be no reserve. It seems to me that this is about the nuances that are, it's about music that doesn't represent anyone's national character here we've heard, and we have to admit that even coming to this meeting, we've prepared ourselves in that sense and we've received such assurances. I have to admit that my ear is too hard to recognize music tones, but I was looking for the one whose ear is soft and he confirmed it to me. So, honestly, now behind this pay phone I'm saying, I don't care which of these three anthems are going to be chosen, and of course I have one of my own that's more in my ear. If the others don't discuss in terms of any objections, I won't, even though I have some remarks. So, if we go from honestly wanting to choose one of these three variants, then I would say that if after the first vote we don't get by the Rules of Procedure to eliminate the proposal that has the smallest number of votes and that we all do, then we'll see what the situation is like and then vote again and get to that proposal. This is not a specific matter such as other legal ones where we have amendments, proposals for changes, etc. And so, so that we can have different variations, here we have three proposals that are untouchable. The first proposal is what it is, we can't add an amendment to Intermeco so we can insert something into this Intermeco example. And please, I personally think that if we care that the initial compromise that we had after lunch worked today and we choose Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, let us behave. They're waiting for us, I won't say that this isn't a small thing I think this is a significant thing, but we're waiting for a lot of other important things to bring here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1370	Thank you. It is understood that a louder public vote is made, if the proposal for a secret vote does not get the majority, it is meant to be a public vote, that is. Neim, I can't put if we're going to vote publicly, because that means, if a secret vote doesn't pass, it's an alternative. It may occur that neither the proposal for public or the secret vote does not win the majority, so we cannot vote. That's why this secret vote is meant if it doesn't go public, so let me and I have to put the proposal for a secret vote to the test. Please, who's in favour of the first round of voting, so between the three variants, let's do the secret vote, and the second round in public between the two remaining variants, that's the section of Mr. Kadic. The proposal is as follows: that the first round be held by a secret vote between three and two who receive the largest number of votes go to the second round of voting. Who is it that this 43 vote between the three variants of the first round is held by a secret vote, who's for this, please raise your hand? It is understood that it was prescribed by the rules of procedure since the proposal did not receive the necessary majority to vote publicly. That's what this is about, right now, first of all, let's figure out the quorum. Please raise the MPs' hands, the quorum is determined. So 31 MPs are present. We are going to the first round of voting and to the I variant offered under the code “Intermeco”. I call on Members to declare by raising their hands who is in favour of accepting the variant under the code “Intermesco”. Who would please raise your hand? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? By entities Republika Srpska who's in favour? The Federation and the variant who's in favour? I find it accepted in the first round of the Goapsoin Špirić vote. With Mr Špirić's decisive contribution, the first variant was accepted. [[Applause]] I find that this variant whose intermeso code has become an integral part of the Law whose text we have agreed and reached a consensus, and what we will plead upon. Once we've passed the law, we'll listen to the anthem. I put the whole Bosnia and Herzegovina State Anthem Act to vote. Who is it, please, that we plead by raising our hands? Who's against it? Is there any abstentions with 28 votes for, two pttivs and one abstention we have to implement this by entities. Who's from Republika Srpska? There's a need for most of them. Thank you. From the Federation's space, who's in favour? Thank you, and here we have the necessary majority. I find that from the 28th vote, a decision on the adoption of the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been made. I thank all the MPs and congratulate you. Now we're going to listen to this version. Please get up on your feet. (Himna) Thank you. I mosliti it's a great pleasure to realize that we've been present at a historic moment, we're the first to hear this anthem, I thank you once again and call on Ambassador Šumaher to take the word. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1371	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to take the opportunity to thank you briefly on behalf of Mr. Karlos Vestendorp. I would like to congratulate all the representatives of this respected body for choosing relatively quickly and relatively this anthem. 44 I želimd to remind you that this is the first time that Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives voted in favour of a law on the symbols of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it's encouraging for all of us, but it was a long and exhausting process. Now I would also like to remind you that now that it has been three years since the signing of the Dayton Agreement, Bosnia and Herzegovina has more than completed the process of establishing its symbols, so it would also be very encouraging to give a positive signal to the international community, if the laws on coat of arms and the flag that are currently and still adopted by the high representative were to be formally approved by this body. To enable us to continue working together to address issues of vital importance for this country and its people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1372	Thank you, Mr. Šumareh. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1373	Dear Lord MPs, I have a suggestion. To buy an artist a picture, this tall home, and sign all of us to the author for whom we'll find out who it is. Give it up. I think this is a historic moment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1374	Thank you. Here's the proposal for an acclaim accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1375	Since I also see members of the Commission on the way out of the gym, I would like to take the opportunity to give these members of the Commission who have come so hard with 49 with three proposals for thanks, I do not think we have thanked each other so far and to ask this House of Representatives to adopt one conclusion. The conclusion can be: To oblige the Council of Ministers or, more precisely, the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications to provide quality copies of this tonne of an anthem after this law enters into force to all interested public institutions concerned by the performance of an anthem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as soon as possible, so that all those who have to and should perform an anthem have a quality text or a quality tone record and would not be able to manage the black market except for tapes and CDs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1376	Thank you. I therefore feel the need for members of the jury on behalf of both the Presidential College and on behalf of all MPs to this expert team of the Commission who has decided to thank again on behalf of the House of Representatives for congratulating them on a successful job, and this proposal by Mr Kadić, on the obligation of the competent ministry to obtain a sufficient number of quality audio recordings to deliver to all public institutions, I am putting as a proposal for a conclusion on the vote. Who's in? 45 There is a necessary majority, thank you. This concludes with the first item of the agenda and we are going to the 2nd point of the agenda : I call first of all the legislator if there is a need to give an introductory presentation. As the Council of Ministers has known, the law has agreed recently. At today's consultations at the College, too, the Law was not controversial and it was agreed on how much it was necessary for the applicant to plead, unless I call on a representative of the competent commission if there is a need to plead, so the President of the Commission for Human Rights of Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, Mr Malkić, President of the Commission for Human Rights, Refugees, Immigrants and Asylum.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1377	Dear gentlemen, honourable MPs, at the 2nd session of the Commission on Human Rights and Immigration for Refugees and Asylum, this law has been discussed among other laws. Most of the members of the Commission, i.e. all present at the second session in the discussion, held the opinion that the proposal covers a wide range of persons who need to have immunity. Given that, according to the constitution in the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, freedom of movement is guaranteed, and there is no need for it but to respect, the Council of Ministers' suggestions and by seeking to work, and following the reasons for the Council of Ministers' representatives to come to the initiative of the Republika Srpska staff, and supported by the High Representative in order to function Bosnia and Herzegovina's central institutions, the Commission adopted the proposal for the Law with certain conclusions which are of particular technical nature. Since the Interim Rules of Procedure did not define the powers of the working bodies or commissions, we did not have the opportunity to submit amendments at the meeting, which had not arrived from the MPs. We therefore require that a permanent rules of procedure be made as soon as possible to define the Commission's competences. The conclusion is: that the immunity of all persons provided for by the amended law on amendments and additions to the Immunity Act is linked during the appointment of BiH institutions and the journey between institutions and the place of residence, with which both the identity card and the ID must be harmonised. This can be done in Article 7 or new Article 7a. In Article 4. The bill's proposal to add words - the competent authorities to confiscate the immunity of the persons referred to in Article 3 of this Act are: after leaving this out, - Article 7. to comply with Article 3a, or a new member formulate 7a. Also in Article 7 according to the amendments in Article 4 of the wording - it will not be possible to replace it in Article 7 of the word “will continue”. These suggestions or conclusions try to separate the degree of immunity within the meaning of Articles 3 and 3a. which is defined by these changes and additions. The general view of the Commission is that the law was passed without any preamble, and an adequate preabula should be put in the Immunity Act.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1378	Thank you. Do any of the MPs have a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1379	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I'm trying to think about these materials that are waiting for us regarding the conditions, the way common bodies work, the location, the general environment, and when we define all this, then this law on employee immunity will be out of force or it will be an addition. So it would be good to think about waiting and bringing quality solutions to the global aspect of the functioning of common bodies. We will already have the next item of the agenda where it will be asked among other questions. I am afraid of how we started working, given the degree of trust or mistrust, that we will seek immunity for birds flying the sky above entities or Bosnia and Herzegovina So I think and should simply consider the general environment having two high-presence letters concerning this general environment I believe that we will open a debate here on all segments and in all of us MPs openly discuss and find solutions. So I think it might be wise to stop by making this conclusion while we look at these global solutions, if, of course, this home decides to discuss and make a decision, of course it obliges me, who thinks differently at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1380	So is there any other MPs who would like to discuss this law? If not, I am primarily obliged to put the amendments, which are in front of the Commission, to vote, and then to the law in full. In Article 4. The proposal for a law to add the words “the competent authorities to withdraw immunity from persons referred to in Article 3 of this Act are:”, that is one amendment proposed by the Commission. Who is for this proposal please add these words? From the RS space who's in? From the Federation space? So we need most of this amendment has been accepted. Please, the materials have been delivered. A perfectly correct remark, you have all the text of the law and you received it in time, and the record of the working committee competent to be shared with MPs who do not have it. Five-minute break. In the meantime, the consultations that we have carried out, what the Commission has done on this law, these are observations of a legal-technical nature, cannot be treated as an amendment, mainly technical remarks, technical nature, comment on the content, because it is done - please follow, you have the Commission report, you have the Law. First, in Article 4 before the text in general, to put “the competent authorities to confiscate the immunity of persons and of Article 3 of this Act are: (It is not right, please Balkić your Law to Balkic) 47 So, please, propose a law on amendments and additions to the Immunity Act. This Amendment Law proposal has a total of five members. This is the proposal for a law amending the Immunity Act. In that Law, the Commission had several technical remarks to be corrected, and it says: “In Article 4. The proposal for a law amending the Law to add the words: “The competent authorities to confiscate immunity from the persons referred to in Article 3 of this Act are:” - all of them listed, because it is simply left out to put those sentences, is technically left out. In Article 7, to comply with Article 3a, it is not a problem and Article 7 to, as amended by Article 4, where the replaced words are not to be kept in words, they will cease to do the same in Article 7. So, the technical observations of the Law. That's what this is about. So it's not about the amendments, please keep that in mind. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1381	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the degree of mutual trust that we build will affect that no immunity can help people, because immunity lasts while people are in office. I think we need to build each other's trust another way. Do you remember the Law of Immunity and Immunity of Ambassador Džedović? Where is this man today? We have an MP who has immunity. There's no man, he hasn't been coming in six months, and now we want to protect professionals with some immunity. Let's not lie. We need to build a level of trust. There can't be hunting for people if we want this country and its entities to survive. I think it's simple to wait with this to see what kind of global alibi we're going to have for the rd of joint institutions. Maybe this one when we define it will be an ad-act. And I ask you all -- here, we had the Immunity Act, we said that elected all MPs have immunity, one man for six months is not coming, no one finds fit that this high house informs what happens to an MP who has immunity. Whom we deceive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let's open a democratic debate once and there's nothing we can't discuss. I don't think the Immunity Act will protect any clerks if there's any reason to fear. Simply to stop playing some immunity, we will appear to invent that every third citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina will have immunity or will be the security of a senior official of this or that or be on elected posts. There aren't many of us. I think we should put this off and think about it one more time. Well, you see, we don't even make much more important laws for the functioning of this country, we take them off the agenda. And here we won't look the truth in the eye. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1382	There can't be an argument about breaking some laws to break more laws. Of course, Mr Špirić made his point on this issue, we had a search, we had a debate, we also had technical remarks from the Commission, suggestions from Mr Špirić and everything the MPs said will be presented, it will appear in the way of the vote. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1383	The Immunity Act, not only this Law, but any Immunity Act, recognises a certain right for a person to, while performing that function, cannot criminally or civilly be held accountable for any action he makes within his authority. Recognising someone's right to immunity retroactively for something he did before he was an MP is something that is in legal practice - legal procedure impossible. Not 48 can be recognised to Mr. Džedović the right to immunity for what he did before he was an MP in this assembly. Please, all who gain immunity under this Law - and we MPs who have immunity are protected only by actions that we do within the exercise of our powers and during our term of office. Can anyone recognize our immunity retroactively? If I killed a man five years ago, and now I'm an MP, then I won't be held accountable for what I did five years ago. Well, that's absurd, believe me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1384	Since no debate has been reported, I am putting the amendment law to the Immunity Act, with all these technical changes that are necessary, to put it to the vote. Who's in favor of this law? Twenty-four for it. Please by entities from Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? 10 from Federation's space who's in favour? 13 Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I find that with that number of votes, with the necessary entity and the half-present majority of MPs, the proposed Law amending the Immunity Act has been adopted. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: The text of the Decision establishing the interim Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the proposal is given to you all today. The text has been agreed by representatives of parliamentary parties and it sanctions the defacto state that those in the Secretariat and for a time already are working to establish themselves by the House of Representatives Decision and that the decision is sanctioned. Text of the motion for a decision you got. The text doesn't have many members. Most of this is due to the views in which I would single out this third position, where it is said that the sekretarijat - on a proposal from the Secretariat of the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the Peoples in consultation with various committees on administrative matters of both homes, will, within 60 days of the entry into force of this Decision, forward to the Parliamentary Assembly the adoption of the Proposal for an Organizational Scheme of the Secretariat and prepare the acts on the internal organisation of the Secretariat and professional services. According to the Law, filling jobs should begin gradually and end until the end of 1999. So this is what I'm putting, the importance of this decision at the very top. I said you got the text of the motion for this decision and I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1385	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I was also at the last session, when we were establishing the agenda for this decision to be put on the agenda. However, since it was not prepared, and my objection was that we should be involved in preparing this Decision, I was responsible by 49 chairmans that I would have the opportunity to take part in the preparation of the Administrative Commission Decision. Yesterday was held - some overheated, and some yesterday - all the commissions. The Administrative Commission has not discussed this Decision. I don't think that's right. The decision has been shared today, and I think, if we had delayed it last time, that it was time for the Administrative Commission to discuss this Decision. I didn't object to the agenda, because I think it's a decision to make, but I have an objection to Article 2 of this Decision, because I don't think it's right to regulate that the Secretariat is going to be composed of people of a certain nationality. First of all, I think that is where we should choose professionals, not members of the people, and here it says that the sekretarijat consists of six members -- two Bošnjak, two Srbin and two Hrvat. I don't think that's a good solution, so that we wouldn't possibly be imputing something else I'm going to tell you my proposal. I think it would be better if the Secretariat consisted, because it is the sekretarijat that will be in office of this House of Representatives, means at the service of all MPs, not MPs of certain nationalities. I think the better solution would be that the Secretariat will have a number of members, equal to the number of members of the Colleges of Members and a group of Members' clubs, that the working committees on administrative issues will appoint both at home members of the Secretariat, taking care of the size of Members' clubs and equal national representation. I think a formula like this would be more correct than choosing people for employment -- professional work, by nationality. If you need me, I haven't had a chance to make amendments before, because this is divided into benches.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1386	It is about the decision to set up an Interim Secretariat, which is not a party body, but a professional body that has very clear specific tasks to prepare the systematization of the organisation of professional services and to prepare the Permanent Rules of Procedure and, of course, Mrs Muminagić as a member of the Administrative Commission, as well as all members of the administrative committees of both homes will have the opportunity to participate as members of the administration committees to develop the systematisation and organisation of the professional services of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Given that this is the result of an intensive activity in the former Parliament for the past eight months, the OHR representative and the establishment of the Interim Secretariat for the Transitional Body, which would be extinguished by the establishment of professional services and that this is a defacto solution taken from earlier, this Decision only sanctions the Interim Secretariat by decision, which is the third state of six employees, who are professional workers, not according to some strictity and structure of the parliaments, but according to Parliament's needs to satisfy certain functions. So, while respecting the remarks made by Ms. Muminagić, who can and can personally accept, I felt the need to clarify this, what is really the matter - that it is sanctioning the existing state and state that is temporary, which, for very clear reasons from a few months ago, has been established and which - will stand in its temporary state until the final systemisation, and within 60 days, definitely does not solve this with the intensive participation of the administrative committees of one and the other home. Anyone else have any objections? Mrs. Muminagić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1387	I have no doubt that as a member of the Administrative Commission, I would have the opportunity to take part in the debate on the organisational scheme and that was not my point. My objection to the text of this Decision. I didn't get a chance, as a member of the Administrative Commission, to say what I said here in Administrative so I wouldn't keep this House around 50 of them and try another solution. I repeat, it is not right for us to draw up the Secretariat by nationality, to hire people to do jobs by nationality, even if it is the current situation. All of us sitting here are members of some nation, but it's not right that in the decision we write we say - the Secretariat will consist of six members, so let's say who it is. This is people's employment, and I think there'd better be another solution. I've tried to find that solution, if it's necessary to repeat, it's up to the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1388	Of course, and in your proposal, you end up taking care of equal national representation. You've put -- taking care of equal national representation. In fact, that's it. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1389	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth paper of the motion for a decision that I have managed to see, which our great presidency, fleeing to open the essence of the problem, has brought before the MPs. That's exactly the way I disagree. I'm interested in what made us compromise one side or the other or the third side to get this material. I didn't just say that we need to define a series of things to get to this. We have the Interim Secretariat, he's doing his part of the job. It will be much harder to break up a part of our decisions that are not good, but to make new right decisions that are not valid. You may think, the decision to establish the Interim Secretariat, that the gentlemen could not define where the Interim Secretariat was located. Are those harmonised attitudes? Does it bother anyone here to open that question? Therefore, I ask that such decisions, which, among other things, concern and work of the joint bodies, return to the discussion of both the Presidency and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to start a problem once. You see, we had just come to Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. We'll get to everything if we work. In this way, I say to you that they will not function together in the way that the citizens would like and as they expect us to. I'm asking today to state where the Interim Secretariat's location is, to open up the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1390	Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1391	Madam Chairman, I would firstly like to declare on point 2, on the proposal by Mrs Muminagić, concerning the Decision on the establishment of the Interim Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, since this is about the establishment of the Interim Secretariat, I would support the proposal in the version that we have received. I wouldn't elaborate anymore. Mr. Chairman, follow me? That's below 1. In point 3, I would suggest that this 60-day deadline be reduced to 30 and I'll be free to read more literally, because I have a supplement to point 3, so it would read like this: (I'll indicate where the supplement should be done.) “On the proposal of the Secretariat, the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the Peoples will, in consultation with the Working Committees on Administrative Affairs of both homes, within the deadline of -51 days - from the date of entry into force of this decision, forward to the Parliamentary Assembly for adoption of the Proposal for an Organisational Scheme of the Secretariat and to prepare acts on the internal organisation of the Secretariat and professional services, (now complemented) to submit the legal framework in accordance with the letters of Mr Vestendorp, which would ensure the protection of MPs, persons working in the Council of Ministers and other joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (and continue) in accordance with the Law. The filling of jobs should be gradually and completed by the end of 1999. Will I be free only on a piece of paper to deliver to you or should I dictate specifically to you? A piece of paper.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1392	Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1393	First, let me say what I agree with. I think it's in point 3. The proposal to cut from 60 to 30 days is justified, it seems acceptable, because we are already spending - I don't know which month - of our mandate. I ask the MPs to take this intervention Mr. Deretić showed, accept and make it 30 days. The second thing, it seems to me, is that the last sentence in point 3 is quite wide-ranging, that jobs will be filled by the end of 1999. I'm going to tell you openly, some of the basic technical things that we have here presented a fundamental political problem, such as the disputed decision of the Presidency regarding the appointment, are the fruit only of the fact that, let's say, some places aren't filled and that it can be physically done. I don't think there's any excuse for a deadline to fill jobs, by adopted systems, to be -- and it could be eight months -- no reason for such a long period of time. Third, I have an understanding of Mrs Muminagić's proposal. It even seems to me that such predetermined jobs in line with national belongings could be interpreted as some kind of discrimination in working relationships, and we are signatories of international conventions that say that the workplace cannot be favored or that the right to work cannot be discriminated on any basis by either ethnic, religious, religious, business, and any other belonging. It seems to me that the compromise could be that the sekretarijat will have six members, with the Commission taking care of the national representation of employees of people in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. By doing so, we can formally escape the possible responsibility of breaking the law, and we can essentially find a solution to the temporary secretary’s staff. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1394	Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? We move to a statement on the proposed amendments to the text of the decision. Ms. Muminagić put forward a proposal for the opinion, or Article 2 of the text, to read "The Secretariat will have a number of members equal to the number of members of the Colleges of Chairmans and a group of Members' Clubs. I don't get this. The Working Commission for both homes will appoint members of the Secretariat to take care of the size of MPs' clubs and equal national representation. In fact, I am trying to connect these proposals to Mrs Muminagić and Mr Kadić, but I am putting this proposal to the vote. 52 Who's in favor of this formulation? (So, three votes) Speaking of Article 2, Mr Kadić had a formulation that the Secretariat would have six members, but the Committee for Administrative Affairs in Employment will take care of national balance and in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's the same river, and please, who's for this proposal please raise your hand? So the proposal didn't get most of it. The proposal was repeated to reduce this from 60 days to 30 days, these were two proposals. Who's to suggest that this change the art of 60 to be 30 days, please raise your hand? So this is reduced from 60 to 30 days. Furthermore, Mr Deretić suggested adding the following sentence in the same position 3 “To be added in Article 3 behind the word “in accordance with the law” from professional services where this point is, below the words to go, “deliver a legal framework in accordance with the letters of Mr Vestendorp to ensure the protection of MPs and persons working in the Council of Ministers and other joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with the law. Then this last line goes if there's a line here. Who's in favor of this addition to adding this sentence? Therefore, the proposal did not receive the necessary number of votes, that this intervention in the text should also be carried out and that is, as regards the adjustment of the text of this decision that we had on the proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion on these proposals, I remain the whole text of the motion for a decision on the establishment of the interim secretariat of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly for the vote and I ask you who is for this decision to plead by raising hands. Twenty is for, please entity to establish from the RS space who's for?five. From the Federation's capitalist who's in favour? Twelve. So, with the majority of votes needed from both entities and MPs present, I find that a decision has been taken to establish the interim Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you, we move to agenda item 4: You received the text proposed by the Commission on Legal and Constitutional Affairs in the meantime that text is in two places balanced on some improvement and that modified text, you also received Mr Kadić's invitation to the President of the Constitutional Legal Affairs Commission to explain.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1395	As you know the draft laws or other acts on this House of Parliament or in the Parliamentary Assembly are proposed by the Council of Ministers, the Presidency or the Office of the High Representative. Since in practice, the situation has shown that some laws addressed by MPs have never entered the actual parliamentary procedure before a year ago. On the Constitutional Commission, we have taken the job of trying to regulate this issue which has not been regulated by the provisional rules of procedure so far, where point 1.3 says that what is not regulated by the provisional rules of procedure can be regulated by the conclusion of the House of Representatives. 53 We had good intentions, and I seem to have already given good intentions because we have received a proposal for a conclusion, or of seven points, which regulates the procedure for passing laws and other acts but in a very simple way. All those who have the right to propose laws retain this right actively, but we are introducing deadlines for statements that will not give anyone the right to endlessly block the debate on the laws submitted, i.e. We are introducing rules that mean that certain laws will, after a certain period of time, enter into the ordinary parliamentary procedure whether or not they have been declared by the Council of Ministers. With this conclusion, we are primarily helping MPs to propose their laws, secondly, we are laying down rules of play which are now clear to the Council of Ministers regarding the statement, and thirdly, we are free of any responsibility that by subjective assessment some legislative proposal may be in the process for more than a year not to come on this agenda. We also tried to inter-partyly balance this proposal with conclusions and I don't know if I can ask, but I don't think we should make any big remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1396	Thank you. I am opening a debate on this text of the proposal for a conclusion. Do any of the MPs have a need to discuss? Here you go, Mr. Neimarly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1397	My remarks are of a formal nature, however, I see they do and can have not only formal implications. Here it is said in the further text of the laws, I suggest that the further text reads "the bill's proposals". I'm afraid of getting used to it, and in some ways we're getting used to the identification of laws and bill proposals, and in that sense, my proposal is wherever the laws appear, that there are a lot of bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1398	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1399	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, On the trail of what Mr Neimarlija was talking about, I suggest that the text reads: “This conclusion refers to initiatives for the adoption or amendment of the law” cannot refer to the draft laws, because the bill is already defined form which was created after predications, drafts, etc. Therefore, this concerns initiatives for the adoption of laws or other acts or other initiatives of the Memorandum, agreements, etc. and that there is a “initiative” in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1400	This conclusion was drawn in order to implement Article 8(2). Rules of Procedure relating to the adoption of the law. Point 2 stands - laws can be proposed in any home, laws may be proposed by any member of the House of People's House of Representatives or delegates, or by any member of the Bureau, or by the Council of Ministers or by one or more committees of each home. Please do not change this conclusion, or this view of the Rules of Procedure. All we're proposing is a change of attitude here says laws, doesn't say initiatives, doesn't say proposals, doesn't say drafts. It will propose in the form of an MP, a commission, a council of ministers or anyone named here, and I would not change, if we want to be precise, then we'd better get invited to the first point, to Article 8. bet.2. Rules of Procedure, so let's be exact. I suggest that as an addition to the cadic's proposal, but I had no intention, because I agreed with him, but since there is inaccuracies, so be it. This is at point 1. We say that this applies to Article 8(2). Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1401	The point is the same wording, it could be initiatives regarding this and that member of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, gospodin Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1402	I appreciate Mr. Tomić's proposal, however, that proposal and if the horse had no intention of clearly derrogating Article 8(2). The Interim Rules of Procedure, which says MPs can propose laws, not submit initiatives. The initiative is a rather vague legal act, it can be verbal, written, etc. Because we had been working on this for quite a long time, not to derivate the interim Rules of Procedure, which gives MPs, among other things, the right to propose legislation, and yet so the proposed laws would not go directly past some procedure towards the House of Representatives, but to pass the form of the Council of Ministers in order not to paralyze the conflict in the laws, we have proposed these conclusions. This conclusion, in all its seven points, also leaves the right for the representatives to propose laws and other acts, obliges and gives time and time to declare the Council of Ministers, in order not to paralyze or comply with the law, to set deadlines until the Council of Ministers can declare itself and within what time period, if it is not made clear, then independently of that goes into parliamentaryly further procedure, and it seems that we have satisfied all interests when this matter is concerned and I believe that this conclusion should be adopted without any further amendments, because any changes will likely more complicated matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1403	The intervention, Mr. Tomić's proposal, if he stays on the proposal, I'll press the vote, you've heard Mr. Tomić say so.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1404	I fully understand both the discussion and Mrs. Muminagić and Mr. Kadić, however, what can now formally happen if we accept this exclusively in this way. If we simply had 20, 30 and 40 draft laws and each MP, each of them have deadlines that are given which are very short, practically the Council of Ministers as the body that works most on these laws has its own programme of work, and we would have to form a service to respond to these things, for this reason it is not a bill proposal, it is a proposal of 55 laws, when it comes here in the form of a bill proposal, but until it comes to the form of a draft, a draft, it is a constant initiative for the adoption of the law, which may be in the form of a written request to initiate a particular procedure, or in the form of a predetermined text of that law that is intended to be launched. I speak for one simple reason why it will create if it goes with such a hard formulation it will create such a one chaos in activities, we have from the past convened a 6-7 law from various areas, inter-entity crime, etc. And the shadow of that law cannot be very simple to say that is what we are discussing let it wait, it is not fair to the MPs. So I think it's essentially initiatives to pass these laws essentially. I know that this formulation from the Rules of Procedure is obviously not the most sensitive, because it is also about the law-making initiatives, not the law-making proposals, but that's how it is. It is possible to go in this direction that this conclusion refers to the implementation of this article in the Rules of Procedure and the relation of the initiatives of further those not covered by Article 8.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1405	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1406	I apologize for going out this many times, but I would like to go over this in this way in point 1 stands - this conclusion refers to the proposed laws, i.e. the law-making initiatives, etc. and that a new position is added in point 1 and that the proposed laws by the MPs are considered to have been submitted in the form of a predicate of the law. Because, really, as it turns out, MPs can submit a bill, and you know that in the parliamentary procedure until the proposal is reached, there is a murky way, and that every government has a Legislative Office which makes observations to these laws, and no law can come to Parliament until this procedure is passed, we cannot accept that it is now a proposal, but in conclusion, it states that such laws will be treated as predicate laws. Because I really can't make suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1407	I don't think we've established the exact meaning of certain terms yet. I'm not saying that as a criticism to you, I'm saying it to myself. In that English version of the draft, it's interpreted one way or another, it's probably here under the so-called. by proposing laws and by means of procedures, and it seems to me that the compromise could be to state, however, that the proposed law implies that it is a form of predicate or draft, somewhat lower, because that is exactly what we are prescribing the procedure so that it does not go directly to parliament, it may be a supplement in Article 1 as a compromise, it is first and second, it seems that if we want to go towards a compromise in relation to what Mr Tomić is saying here, we seem from the Council of Ministers' point of view, then it may possibly be an extension of 30 days for a mandatory statement by the Council of Ministers, so the amendments in Article 4 and not the amendments in Article 1. We can ask for a compromise in Article 4 or point 3 to even find a compromise there, a draft law and a draft, and another, possibly within 45 days, that 56 must be declared by the Council of Ministers, and an exceptional 60 days if it evaluates the College. This leaves essentially the point, and we formally go out to meet the Council of Ministers, with the fact that I have to mention one thing very important. The House of Representatives today adopted the conclusion that at the next session of the House of Representatives, it will discuss all the laws that were passed during the past period including the laws that were filed a year ago. The deadline may be shorter than 30 days for the Council of Ministers to plead. And when we settle it by the next session, then there won't be any backlogs for the Council of Ministers to cause any major problems. It's a very important thing, we already have one conclusion on the agenda that was a compromise for today's session. Perhaps in point 1. add the proposed laws are laws that are treated in the form of a predicate law and thus we seem to have solved the problem for today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1408	Thank you, Mr. Dokić and Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1409	I come from this, when something is adopted, that there is a need to take care of the possibility of realisation. Because if you do something unrealistic, then you put it right in the first step and it gets used to it and then it doesn't work anymore. In that context, I would support it, it seems to me that it's suggested that this 30-day deadline extends to 60 days, but that it is indeed maximum. If we stick to it, it will be relative to the practice so far very much progress. Also, I don't think it's even in the title of the law-making procedure. I'm not a lawyer, but I understand some things, and I totally support what my colleague Tomić said was immediately in the title of the adoption procedure -- an initiative or something, as he put it, I don't know, let him plead. So, from the moment the MP launched the initiative to go to the Council of Ministers - the initiative to consider and 60 days by, in particular, this proposal to come to the consideration of the Council of Representatives. I'd like to, now mention some of the conclusions that we made today, I'm not sure that's how we made it. I'm asking the chairman to make sure they don't put a lot of laws on one session. Two-and-a-half years of practice tells us that it takes a few sessions to pass a law. Don't have such an ambition to serve us five, six, seven laws at one session. Make a secretary of some kind that we should go after, except, of course, those laws that we were talking about at the beginning, which went through the procedure almost 95%, so they can be discussed. These are the laws that were declared temporary from the Office of the High Representative.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1410	Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1411	I apologize for going out again, but I would like to ask you not to derivate what we have written in the Rules of Procedure. It states in its Rules of Procedure that the laws can be proposed by any member, not to list everything, says the House of Representatives or delegates of the House of Peoples or any member of the Bureau, etc. Therefore, we have established it for ourselves. This is what we're working on. At least that's how I realized the position of the committee - that we were working out a procedure. I wouldn't be in favor of deciding here right now not being able to propose a bill. Because if in the first term, on the first point, we write it's not the bill, 57 then we're going down to the fifth point. Here we should stay, if you want to say in a word that we do not specify, it is proposed laws, which means it can be an Initiative, it can be a Draft and prednacrt, and it can be a proposal in a situation where something needs to be dealt with urgently and we can say what the procedure is. This is about that, and that is essentially what I need to be told about - whether we are about MPs being legislators or just the Council of Ministers. It says here in the Rules of Procedure, I'm not in favor of changing it from the Rules of Procedure to another conclusion. When we do the Rules of Procedure, not the Temporary, but the Permanent, then colleagues from the Council of Ministers and we MPs open all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1412	A five-minute break. We held a debate on the content of the proposed Conclusion, which we called The Conclusion on the procedure for the adoption of laws and other acts. In the meantime, we have had consultations and we have tried what was presented during the debate to bring into the form of a compromise to change the text of this proposal. I ask Vedran Hadžović, in front of the Secretariat, to read what it should look like.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1413	Three amendments have been agreed in the debate on the proposal for a conclusion: - to delete the words "on the procedure for the adoption of the Law and other acts". So, the title should be just “Finishment”. The other amendments relate to point 1. A proposal for a conclusion. I'll read point one's proposal as suggested in the break. “This conclusion concerns the proposed laws, i.e. initiatives for the adoption or amendment of the Law and other acts referred to in Article 8.2. The interim Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted by Members, MPs' clubs, working committees and other institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, submitted to the Representatives' House of Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose proposal is not the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter: the proposed Law)." The rest of the proposal remains as proposed earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1414	Discussions and remarks have also been respected, and I think this proposal contains a compromise that has respected what has been said quite a bit through the debate. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1415	I am asking to vote on this proposal, and I think it included Mr Kadić's proposal to extend this 30-day period, if we want to create one serious time for which the Council of Ministers can respond to all requests and make that deadline 60 days.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1416	Mrs. Havel. 58
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1417	From where I'm standing, I'd just say. In connection with this proposal, which is now said above, changes should be made in paragraphs 3 and 4 that wherever the Law stands, the proposed laws
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1418	We'll do it the next way. First, about this deadline of 60 or 30 days to plead. He's got a 30-day version. It could be in special cases for 60 days. If you can get Dokić to withdraw the proposal. They have both variants. Mr. Dokić suggests putting on 60 days instead of 30. in Article 3 and Article 4 to be a deadline of 60 days to the Council of Ministers. As a rule, it's 60 days. Please, who's in favor of being a 60-day deadline? 21. The entity majority and present MPs are needed. So it's 60 days. When we resolve this dilemma, we move on to the text of the conclusion, as suggested, with Mr. Vedran's corrections, because he's kind of a compromise of all discussions. Who's to conclude how Mr. Vedran read it? 24. Therefore, the conclusion is needed by the number of votes both per entity and by the MPs present. So, it will agree with the meaning of these changes. The next and last item of the agenda are SALANICAL QUESTIONS. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1419	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest, too, that when we succeed in overcoming our own obstacles, we make one decision - since I have already proposed this at the first or second session below - about our Rules of Procedure, that we give one deadline until we have a Rules of Procedure on the agenda, Permanent Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Last time it was said -- as soon as the Administrative Affairs Commission is formed, it will bring it in a month. It was past that month, January passed, and February passed -- I would ask the College, from the chairman and his first associates, that we set today a deadline for the text of the Rules of Procedure that we will discuss at this House, including procedures concerning our work. That's the first thing - if I can get an answer right away, so let me suggest another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1420	Exactly, you can get the answer, because the topic of Parliament's questions - questions about the permanent Rules of Procedure at the next session will be answered by the Secretariat and by the Administrative Commission, a detailed answer to what is with the Permanent Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1421	And how long can we get that text? In 30, 60 days - when can we initiate the procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1422	The deadline -- today we have adopted the Secretariat Decision -- is scheduled for a 30-day deadline for systematicisation and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1423	That means, since it's February 10th today, we'll get 10th of March of the Proposed Rules of Procedure. So, eight more days, that means, say, March 21st -- the day of spring, we'll get the Rules of Procedure. Okay. I'm asking for a record. I mean these answers, then the next one. All right. Now it's about two things I'm interested in. First, I wish it were very good that we have established today a Decision on the Secretariat - the Interim Parliament, but I would like to launch an initiative that Parliament's leadership, too, should address Parliament at a reasonable time regarding the professionalisation of the work of the chairman and the working bodies of Parliament. I would ask, if this is an integral part of the decision taken by the Administrative Commission, there is no need for an answer, only to ask for one proposal on which seats in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the programme of work they will have, hopefully after 15 we will deliver all our suggestions and proposals - 15 February, should be an evaluation of the Kolegijum of Professionals in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in one and another home. It's an initiative. I would also like to make a statement at one of the next sessions of the College of this House of Representatives. The second thing about working conditions in this House, to conclude with this topic, is - apart from the work of MPs and the Council of Ministers and Professional Services of the Secretariat, are the working conditions of journalists, press, Radio-Televisions. I believe that this hall is not good and does not create conditions, firstly for the normal course of monitoring the work of the session and secondly, I also find it useful to ensure that communication links from this house are provided in such a way that journalists can report in accordance with standards that a home, such as this home, must provide to the public. So this is one initiative to the Secretariat to take care of different and better conditions for the work of journalists. It's really embarrassing that they don't have desks to work with, etc. and communication. Now, as far as this is concerned, so much. I would now like to ask Mr Prlić Jadranko, Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it would be good, I said that when we establish working bodies and representations in different bodies of Europe and the world, we will launch as an official initiative, as an MP in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm interested in two things. I would like Mr Prlić, at one of the meetings of the House of Representatives, as foreign minister, to have his presentation on the international position of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the initiatives that Bosnia and Herzegovina has in relation to, of course, economic and political issues concerning strengthening the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina ahead of the upcoming and conference, but also on the commitments we have taken in different bodies. In fact, it would be good to get as a House of Representatives a review of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the past period - this we have received in 60 frameworks of the Council's Report, but especially those initiatives and projects on which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working today, which I think is also responsible for this Parliament. In this regard, I would particularly single out one area that I am interested in, a position and a different internal organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is related to international, cultural and educational, scientific, technical, sports and any other kind of co-operation that would have to be regulated at state level, in accordance with the role and position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If we may request such a report, please Mr Prlić and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepare one such document for one of the next sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1424	So Mr. Prlić accepted the initiative with pleasure. Is there anyone else? Mrs. Jovanović Branislava.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1425	I would like to refer a request to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency in front of this House of Representatives to allocate a portion of the funds from which the vehicles for the transport of MPs will be obtained.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1426	Mrs Filipović, then Mr Dokić and Mr Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1427	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, My parliamentary question would refer to the following: In the last meeting of Parliament, a decision has been taken to visit, namely to announce visits by the parliamentarians of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Croatian parliamentarians. Can we acuteize that question?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1428	The Foreign Affairs Commission will be established in the next seven days and this issue will, among other things, be resolved - that is what I can answer at this time, Mr Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1429	I actually have two proposals or initiatives, as you call it, I don't know. The first concerns our conclusion at last session. In fact, we said that those exposés that the co-chairs submitted could not be accepted, it was not even voted for and it was said that they could only be harder to propose the work of the Council of Ministers. Since the Council of Ministers has sworn an oath today, I would ask for the next session to submit a written report on how they think they are working and to be delivered before the session, not at the session itself, that we can update it. That applies to all other materials. Avoid, please, delivering the material we are discussing at a given session during the session itself. It's impossible to analyze, and we'll take it off the agenda. The second thing is related - another initiative is related to the Madrid Declaration. We had a debate before Madrid, and it's fine. After Madrid, we only got some kind of operational summary of the Madrid Declaration from which you can't see who made it. 61 I ask the Headship of the Assembly in co-operation with the Council of Ministers to make one summary in terms of the obligations of the Assembly and to make that terminology a little more precise than it is here. We must not play with these things and be the basis for our work in the future. In this Rezime, I am responsibly saying, there are things that are wrong, which we would have to react to, which are against the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which can be regulated in a different way than is suggested here. To be clear, respect for certain declarations -- we have an obligation to implement, can be realised in various ways: through laws, through memos, through decisions, through agreements between entities, etc. etc. This rezime prefers only this legal form. We are obliged to protect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1430	Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1431	Dear gentlemen, in Article 40. The law on citizenship, proposed by the OHR, or the High Representative, is the establishment of a Commission to resolve the status of naturalised after 6 April 1992. I wanted information - was the Commission formed, did it submit a report, which is the number of naturalised ones, then what is the number of persons who have lost their citizenship of BiH, by obtaining the citizenship of another country -- which has lost and who has voluntarily given up BiH citizenship? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1432	Mr. Lozančić, then Mr. Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1433	Mr Chairman, at the 3rd session, or last session, following the point of confirmation of the co-chairs, members of the Council of Ministers, or ministers and deputies, the elections of our delegations on European security and cooperation were on the agenda, then the Interparliamentary Union, the Central European Initiative and the Council of Europe. Afterwards, MP Tokić reacted, with the claim, and it was based on the regulations and rules of the Pre-election Commission - point 1 below (a) which is contrary to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, he argued that members of the elected co-chair and the Council of Ministers lost the mandate of MPs in this House. I would like to ask my opinion at one of the next meetings according to MPs to write instructions and members of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, concerning the mandate, i.e. the basis for the rules of the Pre-election Commission, which is contrary to the Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1434	Mr. Prlić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1435	I believe that we should work more operationally, that, by definition, we should be members of the Council at Parliament's meetings and immediately respond to the questions that can be answered, other than thematic discussions. Because, now, there will be some conclusion that will be transferred, so it will travel 15 days to the Council of Ministers and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which means that within 10 days Spahić can get some answer, which may not match the essence he wanted to ask. 62 I would suggest the following: First of all, to provide you with the basic direction of the foreign-political activity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was adopted in February of last year, so that you know what the directions are. Secondly, the issue of overall cooperation, when it comes to scientific and schooling, technical and institutionalization, is a question that we still open. We have received one opinion from the representatives that will soon be held at the Council of Ministers' meeting. And, the thing I would like to propose, precisely to strengthen the political position held by Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives, is this: We are at our counterpart's afternoon reviewing the current state, measures and conditions received by Bosnia and Herzegovina, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina's membership in the Council of Europe. I believe that this is an extremely serious issue at this point in time in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I think it would be good to organise a topical debate at this home to inform you about the current state of affairs when it comes to our membership bid, but also about the conditions set for BiH to become a member. These conditions are of paramount importance to consider this home. I would consider these questions asked by Mr Spahić, which he proposed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to inform and propose to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency, but also to this home debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1436	Thank you. All issues and initiatives within the points are, of course, recorded and will be done in a way that will satisfy the initiatives as well. In the end, I'll just get to know you for a little while. We received notice from the BiH Representation in the Council of Europe that Mr. Janoš Maratonji, acting as chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and Danijel Tarhis, will visit BiH on 16 and 17 March 1999, the Secretary General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. During a two-day stay in Sarajevo, the gentlemen expressed their desire to arrange a meeting with the presidency, the Council of Ministers and representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. Given that these gentlemen have expressed their desire to address the BiH Parliament's MPs so both at home, we believe it would be useful for the further course of BiH's accession procedure to the Council of Europe to call a joint meeting of both homes of Paraliament on 17 March in the period 11 to 12 hours. So please take notice on 17 March, 17 March from 11th to 12th of the joint session of both homes to address these representatives of the Council of Europe. We'll try to get to the college that day, if we can put together some more questions to solve. But I'm asking you to book this. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1437	Since we have accepted that in some way we show the attention of the composer of the anthem, I suggest that the person be invited to the next session when he is officially given the artistic picture with the signatures of all MPs, who, of course, will be there that day.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-10-0.u1438	Thank you. This has exhausted the work of today's session. I'm closing the session and thank you all. The session was completed at 7:20 p.m. 63 END
