ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2165	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 10th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to inform you that, in addition to the MPs, the chairman and members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, co-chaired, vice-chaired and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the PAR project and representatives of public information. [[intonating anthem]] I warmly welcome and thank you for having found the time and will to be with us today and to assist in Parliament's work. I received a report from the Secretariat that 29 MPs, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 17, and from Republika Srpska 12. The session was announced by Mr. Pero Skopljak, Mr. Vito Rakić, Mr. Ljubomir Zorić, Mr. Sejfudin Tokić, and Mr. Safet Oručević. I'm realizing we have the necessary quorum and we can work. Mr. Mijačević has been sick for a long time and is also absent justly from this session and I ask that it be determined. Here, I'm getting additional information that Mr. Zovko, also, justifiably absent, writes to me like this. Please don't make these mistakes again. Before we move to the agenda, let me tell you that today we had a delay for the reasons that the working committees worked and I ask the presidents of all the working bodies of the Assembly not to schedule the same day of the working bodies, because we are coming into a position to postpone the start of the Assembly, because the commission does not arrive in time to do the work, please, the day before schedule the working bodies and please do not repeat this again. For today's session you have received the agenda, the College only has a small supplement, so the agenda proposed by the College is the following: 2 D N E V N I R E D: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Representatives and the minutes from the 1st joint session of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, 2. Report from the Commission on the alignment of the Labour Programme of the House of Representatives, 3. Information on the presence of Members of the House of Representatives, 4. Giving consent to ratification of the Air Traffic Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Austrian Federal Government, 5. Other questions: (a) Information on further work on the preparation of the Work Programme, (b) Information on the decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the action of the then vice-president, and (c) or (c) depends on how who interprets the verification of the mandate of the Member of the Commission for Administrative Affairs, 6. MPs' questions and answers. Does anyone have a proposal to modify or supplement the agenda? While you decide whether to discuss the agenda, I would like to inform you that within such a short period of time we have convened a session for the reason that we respect the business provision regarding the alignment of the position on the Work Programme and that this was the basic reason for such a quick call of the session. Here you are, Mr. Ambassador Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2166	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have no intervention on the agenda, but I am expressing my dissatisfaction with the SDP's Club of Representatives because the BiH Council of Ministers is not fully present. It has already become a little bit of, to say, regular practice, we cannot deal with this practice and ask that you who are holding the session, and we, too, invite the Council of Ministers of BiH to be a regular presence at Parliament's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2167	Thank you very much. I am obliged to inform you, and also an apology to Mr Svetozar Mihajlović, who announced to me yesterday that he must be justifiably absent, other members of the BiH Council of Ministers have not contacted me, I do not know if they have contacted any of the members of the College, if they are, as well. Here you are, Ambassador Dokić, and Ambassador Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2168	Dear Presidency, kolegica and fellow Members, 3 I, too, have no objection to the agenda, but I would like to underline what my colleague from the SDP asked for, therefore, on behalf of the Syllabic Coalition, I would like to ask that, as the first item of the agenda of the next session of this Council, the work of the Council of Ministers, especially in the context of his responsibility and presence in the preparatory period for the sittings and the sittings themselves. We, right away, had a meeting before this last session, where we asked that if they could not sit here, they would necessarily be present in their cabinets that we needed for consultation, because of the more efficient work of the Assembly, obviously that they were not listening, and behind this pay phone I would like to remind you that the members of the Council of Ministers were chosen from us and that we were chosen by them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2169	Thank you very much. poslanik Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2170	Gentlemen of the chairman, dama and gentlemen of the Parliaments, the esteemed guests, I also join the Social Democrats' initiative and the Syllabic Coalition, but I think we must cultivate practice that those who are partly responsible for the situation as it is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we bring in a way to launch an initiative to replace the BiH Council of Ministers, if we want to make the next Council of Ministers of BiH responsible. I think that here, in part, the the thesis is changing for the parties that are in power, who participated in selecting the Council of Ministers, they put forward a proposal for some, for God's sake, debates. How much preparedness is there, then, to define today's initiative to replace the Council of Ministers of BiH in order to make the matter serious, here I am making this proposal and to see if it will come to the support of most MPs in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2171	Thank you. So, you're suggesting that the Assembly start a shift of the BiH Council of Ministers? Okay. I suggest, so it's like a complement to the agenda. Okay. Can I get another one for you? He's not answering. I'm putting on a vote on the agenda adopted by the unanimous College of the House of Representatives. Who's up for the college proposal? I find all present, therefore, 29 MPs voted in favour of the proposal proposed by the College. If it's 29, I know what to do next, there's no need to vote on entities because we all voted. I am putting to vote the initiative of MP Nikola Špirić, which is a proposal to replace the Council of Ministers of BiH. To be placed in the agenda. Gospodne Jahić, I didn't notice, I'm sorry, but then he called before the vote began. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2172	I think this is a very ad hoc proposal, we can't include on the agenda points that are absolutely unprepared to go into the procedure, you know, the shift of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I don't want to amnesty for certain effects in my work of any member of the Council of Ministers, but I don't think it's possible that without complete procedure, in particular to support a valid report on what the Council of Ministers is doing, what problems it faces, that we put the issue of even trust, or shifts on the agenda. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate to ask for a full report on what it is doing and that, ultimately, this Parliament defines a request to the BiH Council of Ministers to which they are obliged to come to these meetings or, as the fellow MP says, to be at our disposal for more frequent communication and co-operation on all important issues that are of interest to the quality work of MPs. Therefore, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with including ad hoc in the agenda of this proposal, and, of course, everyone has the right to declare a certain initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2173	I hope that you do not dispute, according to the Rules of Procedure, that he is right, to me, as I understand the proposal, you want to make complete information about the work, and only after that, I understand your proposal, here, so I will give opportunities to the members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, they want to say something, I think, I will use my right to give them something to say.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2174	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to draw serious attention to the mistakes that we have made as MPs, if we want to respect the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the MPs, in breach of the Constitution, have chosen the Council of Ministers of BiH, this Council of Ministers of BiH at each session of the Representative Council, have been touched by the dissatisfaction of MPs, not only those who do not sit here, because there is no need for the Council of Ministers or ministers to sit here, if they are doing their work seriously, they can sit with us every time, and if we are not satisfied with the work, but the launch of the initiative is exactly how the Council of Ministers of BiH works, we need to see them once we choose to put them seriously on the agenda, but I know who will provide resistance and put them on the agenda, and the citizens must see it. The citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina must see who is guarding the power that is unable to respond to the challenge of the moment that Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, is not Nikola Špirić and we 1/5 MPs here, there is an executive power that we have chosen, which is not capable or inert, or does not work, there are thousands of reasons, but I am in favour of making full information, and that the initiative is being launched today. There are probably people who are pleased to meet in the next Council of Ministers of BiH, there are also those who have miraculously led to the Council of Ministers and the accident of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the people that have hit these premises, and 5 to open a debate on the work of the Council of Ministers, why we are running away from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2175	Thank you very much. Ambassador Mrs Jovanović, so I will give my word to the members of the BiH Council of Ministers. I don't slow it down and I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2176	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, on behalf of the Sloga Club, MPs, we insist on putting this item on the agenda from a simple dissension that this is the third session that we are discussing, on very important issues, that the gentlemen did not find appropriate to appear here. The meeting was attended by MPs and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I don't know what quality, last time no one was, today we are asking to put on the agenda, maybe it will offer them a move, get involved in the work with us. They have an obligation to us who chose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2177	Thank you, here you are, Minister Rečica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2178	I, in any case, particularly on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, cannot deny any MP to request that a certain point be placed on the agenda, however, I believe and support Mr Jahić's view that any assessment given for this speaker must be based on some arguments and facts. Again, let me say, I do not dispute, the right of every representative or delegate here to have his own opinion, and even the opinion of the club on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers. However, to put such a point on the agenda and debate in Parliament, I think there should be a lot more real indicators and concrete information. As for the presence of the BiH Council of Ministers, I must say, that is, members of the Council of Ministers, you will today, as far as I can see, discuss, among other things, the presence of delegates, or representatives here in the House, by a game of cases, or at least three or four members of the BiH Council of Ministers, are also MPs in this House, as far as I can see, one of the most regular at these sessions. I honestly must tell you that, even if I do doubt, the members of the BiH Council of Ministers have been invited to this session, and I must say that a large number of people are justly, officially, absent from their regular duties. I repeat again, I do not challenge anyone's right to speak for this speaker, however, I would ask that it be justified and supported by the fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2179	Thank you very much. Here you are, Deputy Minister, Mr Božanić Dragan. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2180	Madam Chairman, Dear colleagues, we have just heard a few notifications as to why and how, whether or not to be required, of course we should discuss the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we are talking about documents that come to the respected House. Perhaps as a technical explanation, some of us have received an explanation about the session this morning, I ask you to respect such an argument that perhaps some of the colleagues have not even received an explanation at all, or on some of the work assignments, as you know, the council of ministers is an executive body and, at this point, at least one minister, as far as I know, is on the way. So he couldn't even come to get it. What's the rest of the situation with other people, please, in that sense, when you talk, talk about maybe they didn't even know it. Of course, the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH should also be discussed about the documents that we manage, so to speak, to push towards you, in order for you to solve them and, apparently, that we too cannot do much alone. Please make sure that the Council of Ministers of BiH internally, therefore, could have done this to itself, made a decision to attend all Parliament sessions, and in that sense, we encouraged such behaviour, you have the right to ask, we have acted as such, at least until now. It seems to me that we attended these sessions, but at working meetings, where we may be more needed, and that was not the case, in that sense you are quite right, why perhaps you are not informed enough or prepared enough with us to discuss some points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2181	Thank you very much. poslanik Lagumdžija, and I just want to, I was informed here by the Secretariat, the same day, so when the MPs were sent the invitations, the invitations and the Council of Ministers of BiH were sent. It's just knowledge. And when the service did, I don't know, I mean your service. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2182	Mr. Chairman, dama and gentlemen, esteemed fellow MPs and MPs, here it is said several times with law, from various initiatives or with various political motives that the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to know what is going on here. If I understand correctly, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be less informed from this session of what is happening, but from previous sessions, because today it is, and today the chairman did not draw attention to it, because perhaps the chairman does not know it, there is no TV broadcast of this meeting today. Should this seek the reason for the failure of members of the BiH Council of Ministers here, so since there are no TV transmissions, then probably not, it doesn't matter what it will be, I don't know, but I am obliged to draw attention to this, because very often opposition party representatives, opposition parties have accused themselves of using this payphone to politicise Parliament's sessions and that seven would probably abuse the presence of TV cameras, and address citizenship with some initiatives that do not mind Parliament's work. I would first like to be answered whether the leadership of our Parliament and the College are familiar with the fact that the media, the television of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not present here today with a direct transmission, that is, under one. If they've been informed that they've told us why they haven't informed us about it, if someone else has given the order not to do it now, so three years after Dejton, that for the first time, the opportunity to see what's going on here directly, directly, directly, however you want, to tell us who did it and why. I would like to say, to inform this House that two days ago there was a session of the Federal Parliament and that, from the session of the Federal Parliament, it is also free to say, the people who run the media called TV Bosnia and Herzegovina have been disfellowshipped from direct pens, so I am now saying this, there is no direct transmission and we cannot be abused to address people in a way that is not appropriate to Parliament, but, two days ago, a direct transfer of the Federal Parliament by the same people, only if you, a colleague of Banjac, together with the agency, have not agreed, now abolished the direct transmission of this House. Whether it's the gentlemen who run the TV BiH or the media, whether it's them who came to the conclusion that the time has come for citizens to cut off information about what's really going on at these gatherings. I think that this is, to say the least, scandalous, inappropriate, to be denied in this way, as one said, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who are fortunate to see that signal, what is happening here, and to open up the possibility to them to shut down this programme and not to watch this noise very often happening under the company of both the Federal and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Proposed by the debate on the agenda and supplementation proposal, we agree with the agenda adopted, but also, as MPs of the Social Democratic Party or the SDP, we believe that the agenda should be expanded. There's more than one colleague in Banjac for that. At the last session, the last session ended with the same empty benches with the exception of Mr Božanić, who, I see, came today. It has already been said, here is a third session in which we do not have a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, but be careful, today the situation is even worse than in the past and before, why? Because we have received a report in front of us on the effort to boost the consensus from which we see three members of the College having three different opinions on constitutional matter regarding the Work Programme itself. It is the elemental order for the BiH Council of Ministers to give us its position, please, to understand immediately, this Parliament is in a blockade because the BiH Council of Ministers is in a blockade or vice versa, however you wish, but the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to manifest itself according to this report and to bring the Work Programme into line. It is unacceptable for the BiH Council of Ministers to treat the Work Programme as if it were here, as if it were, a parliament that would give it his homework. Well, if it does, we agree they'll do it all. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable for us that the Council of Ministers of BiH, according to this agenda item, which is included under: The Report of Consensus, is not present here and does not give its view on all of this. And for this reason, we insist that the Council of Ministers of BiH appear here, with full respect and respect of fellow Members of Mr. Rečica and Mr. Božanić, with full respect and respect, but we need here the chairman and co-chair and co-chair and co-chairing one of the ministers to be present, 8 when we discuss these matters. More to the point, which we still have many questions for the BiH Council of Ministers. We have many issues that have emerged recently, we are interested in having a little Council of Ministers of BiH, for example, say. Does this New York Times lawsuit have anything to do with, perhaps, this Council, because different institutions and individuals appear, parties that sue and hire foreign lawyers, to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH, but not to answer us in writing in three months, but to ask him immediately that you may not have something, gentlemen, with it, etc., etc., has a mass of questions that the Council of Ministers needs to answer here. And that's why, Mr. Banjac, looking for an answer on the transmission, with full respect for the gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the media, who with great interest follow what we are not doing here and who with great interest, with great effort, are trying to get some common denominator out of what we are doing here and to place it with their newspapers and their electronic media, but an electronic medium called Bosnia and Herzegovina television is required, in the name of what it insists on being the television of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a television that has continuity for the future, have no right to behave like this as they have made themselves towards this House.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2183	Thank you very much, Ambassador. Let me write it down. I am the answer to the MP Lagumdžija, the cabinet and I personally have not received any notice of what happened that there is no direct transmission, just before entering this room, Mr Genjac informed me that there will be no direct transmission. Which sources he found out from, I don't know, he's looking for a replica, so let him say. He's a replica, so MP Branko Dokić, no, no, Branko Dokić's discussion, and this is a replica, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2184	It may be that Mr. Lagumdžija has influenced that there is no television transmission. Now the question can be asked on what basis I say, so so by heart as Mr. Lagumdžija says that perhaps Mr. Banjac and I have influenced that there is no transmission. So, if we want to do it by heart. I, of course, do not keep it a key issue, considering, however, that we here need to be overly guided by the work, however, by welcoming the efforts of workers of BiH TV, sometimes superhuman, on what they have done so far, following all parliaments, joining the demands, first of all, I ask the employees of the BiH Television to do additional efforts to enable television transmission and, of course, to provide information on what it is, why there is no television transmission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2185	Thank you. The poslanik Dokić, then the apostle Čaršimanović, and the apostle Spahić. Replica, excuse me. Branko, I'm sorry, you asked for a word. Replica, Ambassador Lagumdžija. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2186	A brief answer, Mr. Kadić, since Mr. Genjac asked me directly how I concluded there was no TV transmission. I've figured out if he's got or isn't got a TV feed, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2187	I answered you what I know. I haven't been informed, I've seen the cameras, and I don't see these cables either, so, according to that, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2188	So, I just want to inform my fellow Genjac that, using methods called observation and logic, it's possible to find out if there's any or no TV transmission here. If he is interested in officiality, the official position on this and in writing can, as a member of the College, very simply check if the method of logic and observation of common sense is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2189	Thank you very much. I think I'll conclude this discussion about the media. No one has informed me, so I respect Parliamentarian Lagumdžija's proposal and, please, do you agree that we are looking for an official response and, of course, Mr Genjac, whether we should ask for an official answer as to why there is no direct TV transmission today? And please, if you don't mind, I'd like to make a note of it and ask for it in writing immediately at the end of this session, it may even be during the session. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2190	Mr. Banjac, if you'll excuse me, just two small interventions, since you wanted to conclude one debate on whether or not we have a television broadcast. It is a debate that is groundless, but it is clear to all that television broadcast is not available and standing there and working and sitting, if you will, a representative of the BiH RadioTelevision, who probably resumes occasionally and prepares his programme dedicated to Parliament. Everyone knows this technology and it's completely pointless to ask questions that we know the answer to right now. But it's not the key question of how the key question was asked. The key question is in your view from last session and Mr. Dokić's position. You said there was no need to hold press conferences or contacts with the public because a direct television broadcast was provided. So that's what you said, Mr. Banjac, and you can take a closer look at the magnetographer in which you said there's no need to have a press conference because we always have a direct television transmission, that's the first thing. The other thing is, Mr. Dokić suggested at last session that, due to the rescue hearing of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, television is being broadcast or used a nicer word, he said it would break or something. So, the key question, in your case, Mr Dokić's case, is the public work of Parliament. If there is no public work for Parliament, then democracy cannot be provided at the lowest level. And, therefore, the key issue is the public work of Parliament. And behind this key issue are the other two issues that we are not going to talk about, as usual as we started the debate today, instead of focusing on the Programme and on our own responsibility, before we move 10 to the agenda, we have found that we need to talk about things that we are going to talk about next time, we are going to make a statement, we have three, four proposals, as I understand it, but, you see, the key question is not that you are asking the question, or that we are asking as the House of Representatives, the Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina, why it is not conveyed, but the key question that we cannot put on the agenda the issue of the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina and what we cannot ask for a way to support and help, let us say, democratically agree on how it is said, our relations with what the public, in this case, is a public TV service.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2191	I warn Mr. MPs to step away from the agenda, discuss the points, please, direct the discussion to the agenda or I will interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2192	It's on the agenda. So, it is not crucial that you text, or we, with the Television of BiH, but is the key issue of Parliament's work. Don't hang up. I suggest that BiH Television ask us when the media and BiH Television will be on the agenda at Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2193	Please, one more warning. You have one more warning and another warning. Interrupted discussion, I interrupt your discussion. Please, MPs, you can't behave like this, please, a public warning for such behavior. Mr. Dokić. If it's the agenda, come on, people, suggest or say, I'm not for that point and no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2194	The fact that we've all learned now that there's no direct television transmission, hopefully it'll help us, maybe this session will be over in an hour. But I wouldn't go into polemics, really, I'm going to try to make a concentrated proposal that would help us continue the session. I would ask the chairman to put the motion to the vote, it doesn't matter whose it is, but I think I said it, as well as Mr Ivo, to put the Council of Ministers on the agenda for the first session of this Parliament. I would pray to these others who have proposed to each other, that they have an understanding that it is not “very serious”, if I have used a big word, immediately put the agenda point: shift. The analysis will show whether the second point will be what Mr Špirić has suggested or whether they deserve a reward for their work. So let's do it patiently, anyway, in the proposal for a programme that we were supposed to adopt last time, and unfortunately we didn't, is one of the points on which a consensus was reached in the preparation of the Ministerial Council's report. So I'm asking now to vote for that report to come to the first session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2195	Thank you very much. 11 Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2196	I think as long as we discuss my proposal, we'll be back to square one. It is now clear that those who chose the Council of Ministers do not want to put it on the agenda. Who says today's debate will result in a shift, etc? But the launch of the initiative means that at the next two, perhaps, we are discussing meetings on the Council of Ministers until we find a rational solution. And for once it is known that the initiative has been launched and that we are not satisfied with the work. What does it mean to ask for a report on the work of the Council of Ministers at the next assembly? That would make sense if we were given each and every one, and that's why I'm not giving up on the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2197	Please, as soon as possible. Replic or, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Replica, Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2198	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gospodin Špirić said earlier that we had elected the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Council of Ministers did not elect this parliament. You know that according to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers elects the Presidency and confirms this Parliament. The members of the BiH Council of Ministers are elected by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and confirms this parliament. So, the initiative you gave for the change of the Council of Ministers should be explained. To whom do we submit the initiative, is the Presidency, which can only be replaced by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e. these three categories that are unconstitutional? We have a decision of the Constitutional Court. This parliament, under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, can initiate a procedure to vote non-confidential to the BiH Council of Ministers, but I think it is a very serious issue and that this issue should go beyond a certain legal procedure. To explain this matter in writing, means to vote non-confidential to the BiH Council of Ministers, which we have the authority under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina with an appropriate explanation of why you propose it, so the procedure is respected and that, of course, the working bodies answer that question before the issue comes to Parliament. I think this is the only right way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2199	Thank you very much. Replica, Divković, you got anything? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2200	This is practically a replica, in a way, the wrong quote, is it? I, when I first came out for a pay phone here, asked Parliament to ask, or the College to ask the BiH Council of Ministers to attend the sessions. I expressed my dissatisfaction with the SDP that it does not attend, but we are joining Mr Dokić's request to discuss the report on the 12 work of the Council of Ministers at the next session, not prejudge the outcome of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2201	Thank you very much. That's the end of the line. Discussion, Čaršimamović, Spahić, Jahić, but please focus on the agenda, please don't put me in a position to warn.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2202	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, I, since I agree with Mr. Dokić's discussion, and I will turn my discussion into an intervention for you, the chairman. It seems that I will become known for the interventions on the work of Parliament, but I must tell you that we are constantly having discussions on the agenda and that this is the way to indefinitely. If I remember correctly, since you did not send us the agenda, the updated agenda, you are under item 5, I don't know if it's under a), or b) or c) put the BiH Constitutional Court Information on the BiH Council of Ministers. So, if you were to access the agenda pragmatically, we could open this discussion in this information before the agenda and not be distracted by such exhausting agendas, etc. It's normal, completely, that before putting a point on the agenda, there's material that's going to be discussed, you know. I can't do it without the material, I'll never raise my hand for something I don't have the right materials and reasons for and against. So, I ask MP Špirić to give up his proposal because I do not think it leads to constructive work of harmonising the agenda and joining the job. But the point opens up the possibility for the agenda. And secondly, I would like to say, I am expressing my protest that there is no public transmission of the session. I would not speculate on why someone is missing, but we could set speculation for each individual member of Parliament why it is not there. We know that there are members of Parliament, when the recording, which are very active here, is gone today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2203	Thank you very much, MP. Replica. Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2204	I don't think I know which way to argue that the government elected by the Council of Ministers of BiH, has confirmed, will simply not open a debate on the conscious situation in which we are. And it doesn't need to be hidden at all. It doesn't matter what form and what point. If most here are satisfied with the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, and it seems so, because most of them have been elected by the BiH Council of Ministers, every debate will be in vain. But then we should turn to Parliament's work. I am putting on the agenda the launch of an initiative to withdraw, here, the confirmation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is true that the legal 13 procedures are such. Well, let it be unconfirmed, if it is unconstitutionally chosen, let it be unconfirmed, at least the MPs keep it to the Constitution. And it does not matter whether the debate will be opened through point c) which the chairman indicated: Information from the Constitutional Court of BiH or will be a special point, if MPs are aware and responsible for once seriously launching the initiative. The BiH Council of Ministers should also be helped to take one step in terms of more significant work by the executive of this representative council, therefore, in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2205	poslanik Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2206	I would just like to remind, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, present representatives of the international community, members of the Secretariat, that I asked for three last sessions to be held at the latest in October of the month to discuss the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers which implies, of course, information on the work of the Council of Ministers and the issue of responsibility for this work, which is quite procedurally well-established. Since I understand that there are three proposals, Mr Dokić, Mr Špirić, Mr Jahić, it seems to me most acceptable to give up the discussion on the occasion, because today we have not, unfortunately, received a proposal for a programme or a draft programme of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was a commitment, if you remember, within seven days it has been announced that there will be an agreement between the OHR and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which would today allow a quality debate and a decision on our document, so I suggest that, indeed, we support Mr Tarik's proposal that we adopt unanimously with 29 votes of today's work we start to realise and to under point c) or v), as you said, we discuss all these proposals and finally reach a conclusion that we will vote. I think it's a correct proposal for Mr. Jahić and connects some way of this initiative. There is no dispute here that we all want to establish a relationship between the BiH Parliament and the BiH Council of Ministers that is regulated by law and the BiH Constitution. After all, after all this time, as you can see, two days ago, the BiH presidency found two things. 1. That where the Council of Ministers is competent to implement the Presidency's decisions, that this is directly related to the presidency, where, under the Constitution, the Council of Ministers, by law, is responsible for its own work, that it then has co-ordination between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency. We must come to the conclusion of the relationship between the BiH Parliament and the BiH Council of Ministers on the basis of a comprehensive analysis, including our position, certainly, and the working bodies, because this is also Parliament, and certainly is responsible for the procedure that we do not have between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament. So I support one such solution that is acceptable to unblock the start of Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2207	poslanik Jahić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2208	Given the upcoming vote, I would only specify my proposal, when it comes to the debate, which in this or that form, with this or that working title, will be held at a session, probably at a meeting of the House of Representatives, so I propose that the debate be conducted under the working title "Information on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the January-September period 1999 and the forthcoming course of its reconstruction". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2209	Gentlemen, I'm calling on section six, point four. I'm asking you to listen to me. The agenda shall be adopted at the beginning of each session, each member may propose additional items of the agenda during the session and shall require that voting proposals be made. I don't think that's controversial. I would ask that we bring this debate to an end, to vote on one item of the agenda and one conclusion. I would ask the promoter to move this under point 5, sub b), if he accepts Mr Jahić, as a proposing - the conclusion that we move to that point, that is the conclusion that at the next session, an analysis of the work of the Council of Ministers is being prepared. You want to vote on the conclusion right away. It's a deal. I'm making suggestions in the order they're proposed. Let me define the proposal first. Please establish the quorum. - 27. Let me rephrase the proposal: "The launch of an initiative to withdraw the confirmation of the Council of Ministers of BiH". That's what Mr. Špirić's suggestion is. Am I okay? Yeah. All right, he's okay with it. Therefore, there is no problem. Who's in? 6 Since the proposal received 6 votes, there is no need to hold an entity vote, there is absolutely no need. I'm putting the conclusion on the agenda. - To put the first session on the agenda "Analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and Reconstruction". Look, the only person who can intervene on this is you, and you'll get a chance to say it later. No, no, I'm Proposer Jahić. Say it again. ___________________ [[speaks from place]] The agenda item should be in the working title: “Information on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, January-September 1999 and the forthcoming course of its reconstruction”. That's my opinion. Dokić ________________ Although I don't care who the proposal is, but I will now call my proposal with a proposal behind which the Syllabic Coalition stands, and my proposal was to conduct an analysis of the work of the Council of Ministers at the next session, without the addition of these reconstructions. That's a special point, that's a special question we're going to discuss, which we put into the Program by the end of this year. So my proposal is, and I ask that it be voted on, that the report and analysis of the work of the BiH Council of Ministers be placed on the agenda at the first next session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2213	I think this is a new situation after this vote. I hope we all in the Assembly want to adopt the Work Plan by the end of this year. We're not far from that plan. Anyone who is honest about meeting the conditions set by the Council of Europe for the admission of Bosnia and Herzegovina will seek to have, among other things, the Work Plan by the end of the year, which is one of the first conditions set by the Council of Europe before us. Therefore, I propose that the last item of the agenda of this session be after this agenda has been exhausted, that one break be made, that the presidents of the parliamentary clubs meet again with the two chairpersons and that a proposal can be defined from all of this, which could be accepted today, and I am convinced that it is possible to come very quickly to such a proposal. I wouldn't bother you with that right now, but let's discuss it later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2214	Thank you, Ambassador Dokić. However, it is certain that a small misunderstanding has arisen under point 5. We have a) Information on further work on the Work Programme, which can be built in and I think it's a little misunderstanding that we've solved. Thank you very much. I'm closing point two. We move to the 3rd Point Information on the presence of MPs to the House of Representatives, you have received material and I consider this material information and only interventions - if it is not true for someone, that it has justified or unjustly, as it writes, let it be corrected, because it will be managed neatly. I'm asking the Secretariat to take a list and make corrections. Ambassador, Mrs Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2215	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the following remark: I would like that in these columns where you kept the records, present - absent - justification, no record of which date someone was not present, so we cannot control. So, I'd like you to give us information on the dates at which someone wasn't present. I don't have the information, and I know I've been left behind once, and it says here twice, and once I've justified myself, and it says "unjustified." Secondly, I don't think the point is just to be present. The point is to stay until the end. Because the mass comes to us, so it's like they're present, and then they go and disable the course of the session at the moment the quorum goes away. Therefore, it is not important to come, say two sentences and come out, but to be there all the time. That's my two remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2216	Thank you. Just to ask Mrs Filipović - is it your suggestion that we may conclude that leaving the session is being conducted as an inconsistencies? That's the conclusion? Do you agree? Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two methodological remarks. 1. I am quite certain that, in addition to the 15 attendance, it is not adequate and true, because our invitation states that we are invited to attend the 10th session of the House of Representatives. So this is where the illusion of activity is created. It's probably about the number of broken sessions and continued sessions. Because I don't see a way to move the number 15 session with the number 10. That hasn't happened yet. Therefore, we should fit in and drop down to the number 10 sessions, as many as there have been. And if someone was on the first or second part, I don't know. So methodologically, there can only be as many present at the number of sessions as there were sessions. There were 10 of them, not 15. 2. Absent: You should know whether they were absent from the sequel or, when such a methodology is already present, they were absent from the entire session. 3. At least as far as I'm concerned, every time I've been away, I've reported it to the sekretarijat and asked him to justify himself to me, and I'd like there to be no misunderstanding, because I don't like the pluses or the minuses standing there, it was back in the old days. As far as this document is concerned, I propose that, as Mrs Filipović suggested, another section - the section which means that we have accepted that working in Parliament, working at the meetings of the House of Representatives and working within the working groups and committees of Parliament is included. I believe that this remark, Mr President, would be important - that the session of committees and working bodies of Parliament, which must prepare an opinion and a position on a matter, whether this is about the law or any other document that we are considering is the basis for our decision. This is how it is done as if we have decided exclusively within Parliament, that is, the House of Representatives and its meetings, without respecting the fact that Parliament's work includes commissions and work. It is noticeable that there are, without data, but from what we have received in these 10 sessions so far, that we have some bodies that have a responsible relationship with the parliamentary session and in committees and some bodies that have, in fact, met once or twice over these 10 sessions. It would be logical, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that all relevant questions of the bodies responsible for this matter should be made clear. The presence on these bodies should be recorded as working in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2218	Thank you very much. Mr Spahić, do you agree that this conclusion reads: “It is the obligation of the Professional Service to keep records of the meetings of the working bodies of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has the same character as the presence of the sittings.” 20 This is what we will put to the vote. Me every conclusion You will vote against, gentlemen, so the MP has the right to propose, let's not take people's right to suggest. (Polemics) Here you go. [[STAMMERING]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2219	Chairman, fellow MPs, if we had adopted the Work Programme, I wouldn't have answered for a word, because it was defined there to call the meetings. Since we haven't established practice that we have a certain period of time since the scheduled session, we will be unable to attend, so this occasion would be good if we agreed that the sessions are scheduled according to that proposal in the Work Programme, if we haven't already adopted the entire Work Programme. The reason is we can be gone for seven days. It happened to me that I was out of Sarajevo for seven days, and I earned three absences, because one session was scheduled, two more were held, so I'm not going to say my guilt, I wasn't, of course, I announced it, but I would have been there, I would have adjusted the time if I had known earlier that we were going to hold the sessions. Let's have seven days to postpone our other jobs, because we're not professionals. When we do that kind of work that we do professionally here, when we get rid of other obligations, then we can ad hoc schedule sessions, but now that, however, we have one appointment and I'd like to pray if we could at least adopt that part of this case.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2220	Thank you very much. Desanka called earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2221	With the greetings of fellow Members, Mr Chairmans and others, I have one small intervention, with the names of six SDS and the SRS MPs, one absence has been recorded, which is not disputed, however, in the section of justice stands, as if it were not just, e, there is my intervention. In fact, we left one session of the Assembly that continued the next day without these six MPs, but we publicly explained our abandonment here behind the pay phone, so I don't think it's right to stand a cartoon, as if we didn't justify it, when we even publicly explained behind the pay phone why we were leaving. So it's okay that one part of us weren't, but it's not right this minus that we didn't justify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2222	Thank you. The poslanik Dokić, then the Messenger Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2223	It didn't turn on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2224	Okay, you heard. Ambassador Kadić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2225	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on a proposal from the House of Representatives College, we have accepted that we have this information on the agenda today. However, we only have one question for the College. What is the goal of putting this information on the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2226	Thank you very much. The aim of this information is to see how many MPs there are with unwarranted absences - three and more, because we are now leveling and making another conclusion, and that is that every MP who does not announce to the kabinet of Presidents his absence is considered unwarranted and that conclusion I will seek on behalf of the Kolegijum to vote, because we need to know where the absence is announced. Because here people say, I called there, I called there, we have to say that it's the Chair's office, because there's a service there. We need to know who didn't answer there, that he didn't justify himself, when he's the second chairman, we'll get there, and that's quite clear. There's got to be order of events. We don't have it regulated by the Rules of Procedure, but I'm sure we will. Here you go. [[whispers]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2227	I hope that, first of all, I hope that we will bring this item to an end quickly, because it seems to me that the debate on this, however, does not deserve, that the topic does not deserve this debate. That's one. Two, I think the failure of the College is which at the beginning of the agenda did not make it very clear what this information is about. Finally, at the end of the entire debate, mention three absences, mention the place of absence, etc., I consider that, in order to say, insufficient to come to conclusions on this agenda point, so that the debate on this benign information would not turn into an important item of the agenda on this Parliament, I propose to the chairman to take a short break for the needs of the College, to record very precisely their and possibly other proposals, and thus end this item of the agenda, so that we don't stay too long on something that seems to me to cause different comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2228	Thank you very much. Malkić, MP Malkić, and MP Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2229	Dear guests, first of all, I wanted to apologize for this arrival, now justified, for having a child in the hospital in surgery, so I went to see what the situation was, and on this information about the number of attendance sessions that were, I have a correction, I haven't been to one of the follow-up sessions, it seems to me this joint session, which was 22.7. A genius when I had an emergency trip to Konjic, and I was on one, so I don't think I've been on one. 22
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2230	Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2231	Members of Parliament, you see, when Parliament is not doing the essence and what it should be, then it is found that we are discussing ourselves, as first-class first class and this, that any happiness would be found only as an addendum to materials, that MPs see if they are present, because we all know that we have never stayed out of the quorum, which means we could work properly, but this is an entry document in a much more intense debate hidden from the eyes of the public, and these are parliamentary compensations. We'll never say which rabbit we hit and what's important, it's hiding. So whoever receives compensation does not come, does not work, and does what is right, then receives restitution, and as much as it is and what it is. We're not ready, honestly, to talk about everything, so I suggest we don't have a debate, that this is the information we have, who comes, who doesn't come, I don't know what to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2232	First of all, Mr. MP, you had one slip - intentional or not, there was a loss of quorum due to abandonment But you said it wasn't, which means it doesn't fit the truth, and I think this area should be arranged, too. [[STAMMERING]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2233	Chairman, esteemed colleagues, and I am in favour of discussing this item of the agenda as soon as possible, however, I would like to present a few things. First of all, the record itself here, as it is given, was somewhat unnecessary in the sense that, on the basis of the minutes in which the registered presence of MPs is recorded, we can determine who is present, who is not present. I came out just for two things: not because of the technique of some excuse that looks like a school justification, but if we're going to make records of arrivals and not coming, or announcements of failure, I would personally like to know why MPs don't come to the assembly. To bring about jobs that are more than MPs from the meeting of the Assembly, there is only, in my view, this record can make real sense, because that this parliament should be what it should be, I don't know what these are jobs that can be so important that they could be absent from the Assembly and the second question is whether this Parliament can agree to some kind of sanctioning consecutive absences, chairing. So, the reasons why we are absent, not in the sense that we accept or do not accept, but to assess ourselves as much as we care about Parliament, and the second is whether this Parliament is in principle open to the possibility of sanctioning consecutive absence, because the OSCE, as far as I know, has these announcements or already for these lower levels and is preparing a rule or norm on which three or four consecutive absences from the Assembly are withdrawn from the delegation or parliamentary status. Thank you. There's no one left. 23 There is one suggestion here that a short Kolegijum, without going out, just read and agree the conclusions, so I suggest that Mrs. Ana just come in for two minutes, and I ask you to step in to agree on the conclusions. We're going back to work. 22 is present, so we continue to work. The first conclusion, please, Mrs Filipović – but to be as a conclusion. We're just formulating what the MPs said and I'm going to tell you whose conclusion it is, and we're going to tell you what else is our conclusion. Don't worry, we're trying very nicely to listen to what you're saying. The absence of a session which is not justified shall be deemed to be absent from the session. Who's in? (starts voting procedure) I'm sorry, but it could've happened before and we wouldn't be in a position to start voting. [[STAMMERING]] I ask you to take care of it in the future. So, the first conclusion is proposed to be the 1st leaving a session that is not justified, is considered not to be a non-resistance session. Is that all right? Dialogues. He says, say, Mr. Lagumdžija now comes up to me and says that at 14 o'clock he has a degree's defense at the university, a student is waiting his whole life, one day he's going on, I think he's justifiably left the session. Polemics. Mrs. Balta's ambassador. Polemics. I ask the MPs, I ask MP Špirić to postpone the laughing conference.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2235	I'd only have one thing - funny and it's the way MPs laugh. So this could serve as a single report, and there's no way a condition -- will -- when -- who will, I'm sorry, have some things that, first of all, and I don't want to justify it that way, and they can happen. Do not put us in a position to look at one another – to justify something, not to justify another one – to direct it as a report, it is the obligation of all MPs to act as they can, in accordance with their obligations and to attend to the congregations, and to teach someone as a young child now – no, no - you must not, you must not. Either sit down, or stand up. Please bring this to an end – it's certainly Friday and certainly these sessions really shouldn't last indefinitely, especially as people travel for 4-5 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2236	24 You can think what you want. Here you go, Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2237	So, I would suggest the next thing. First, I propose that Mr Spahić's remarks be accepted, and that the attendance records be conducted at ten sessions and that the extensions be conducted within one session. Secondly, to make additional records of the presence at committee meetings. Thirdly, to end this item of the agenda without any conclusions, and according to the presence of the Members' clubs to take account – each of them about their MPs and, secondly, to the College, in a certain way, once this has settled a little bit and came to good original ideas, what brings out as possible conclusions, it offers in one of the next sessions. I think that would be correct, any other debate will take away.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2238	Thank you very much. I'm putting Mr. Kadić's motion to vote. Who's in? I have 26 inscribed as quorum, as the quorum is 26 - 24. Who's against it? Niko. Two abstentions. Does anyone have any objections to the voting process? There isn't. So, of the 26 present, 24 for, no one against, two abstentions, no objections to the voting process. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2239	Dear MPs, I understand that the vote has passed, and I am sorry that I failed to get my word before. This proposal is good and I agree completely with it, except in one detail. It has been said that the sessions will be held at 10 sessions. The fact is, the sessions were in the sequels and someone was in one part, and the other wasn't. So it should be decided whether it will count when it was or when it wasn't. I think that the information should remain as it is, by stating that it was from 10 sessions, not 15 – but ten sessions, with not having been in one half, let me say, sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2240	Thank you very much. Polemics. It is no longer treated, because we have not concluded, you will do so in some subsequent process, as suggested by Mr Kadić. Let's move on – the fourth point is 25 Giving consent to the ratification of the air traffic agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Austrian Federal Government Please ask the President of the Commission for Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the President of the Commission for Transport and Connections to submit the report. You have received a report from the Commission on constitutional and legal matters. The second Commission, please the chairman, whether there is a report in writing, here comes the president, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2241	I'm the second chairman, the second deputy, I would explain only one small exception from the agenda. I didn't want to report on this previous agenda, but at the first point, in the adoption of the agenda, I expressed a protest that there is no direct television transmission. Now I'm sorry that I said that, because I laughed at the shame that we're inconclusive and we're discussing one thing, and there's so many serious things waiting for us to adopt. We don't have our own program, and we're talking about how far we're behind, someone said, as kids, we justify ourselves here. I, the chairman, ask you to take these sessions seriously, because we will always come into this situation to discuss matters more marginally without discussing serious matters. So, I'm glad the people didn't see what we were doing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2242	Thank you very much. You think it's unserious that we've been discussing this, because from this it's unserious to lead, and I, sir, assure you that it's very serious that the gentlemen left the session during the period, so we had to interrupt the session, it's a very serious approach, and it needs to know the public of BiH that this happened and I ask you, sir, that it's perfectly normal for the MPs to go and not want to say where they're going and how many people will stay – are we going to be able to work, of course, on these important issues that you've been talking about, and I agree with you that we have many, many important questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2243	Well, I wouldn't be leading the controversy with you, because we have more important questions, but you didn't come up with this point well, you made a report, or you let it be discussed, and you didn't focus on the discussion. So, that's my point, but I wouldn't be in the middle of it with you. In front of the Transport and Traffic Commission, I would like to inform you that we have discussed the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government and that we have found that we have not received the original texts, that we have not received signed texts, initial texts and that we did not know in principle what we are discussing. In addition, on the basis of the text of the unsigned and unparalysed which we received, we could establish or assume that the English and translated version 26 is not identical because, as I recall in Article 1, paragraph 1, we are talking about authorised bodies, in plural, in civil aviation, and at one of the previous sessions, we adopted a Law that regulates the issue of civil air traffic, which precisely determines the jurisdiction of international agreements and that it is one body in BiH. Furthermore, we have established, i.e. we have discussed the way or method of the agreement, and one of the opinions was that the "three-way" method is not the most favourable for BiH to be a more favourable method of "determined" and therefore we suggest that the BiH Council of Ministers take care of it in future agreements. I received their reply from the professional services and their translation of Article 1, point C, which speaks here in one, however, given that MPs did not have the opportunity and I do not know if they would be able to vote if they did not have the opportunity to see the original texts. Our proposal was that we couldn't discuss this until we got the original texts and see what it was about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2244	Thank you very much. We have the first MP Spahić, then Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2245	Ladies and gentlemen, I have read the report of the Constitutional Commission and we have now received the explanation of the second committee of our Parliament. I ask that the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH be made known about these interventions and is it possible to approach the vote on the basis of what Mr Tarik Čaršimamović said, does this interpretation that we received in the break by the Secretariat be accepted? From what I've seen, we have information that a signed document has arrived, I should get from here Mr. Tomić Nevenko, who is the vice-president of the BiH Council of Ministers' position so we can approach the decision on what we're going to do. Otherwise, I think it's a shame that these agreements didn't pass in time of procedure and that they didn't go through the protocol that implies they were signed, that we have English text and translation leveled and certified by the promoters, in this case the Council of Ministers of BiH and it is a pity, we can do ourselves in this case as well as in others. So please give us Mr. Tomić's interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2246	Thank you very much. poslanik Divković, then Ambassador of Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2247	Dear colleagues, I am interested, indeed, in the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH on this report by the Commission on constitutional and legal affairs that we have received here. So what their position is about, because they just get the Council of Ministers' position in total on the proposed agreement, that's one thing that I think is very important for our commitment in the end. The other thing is what it means is that this agreement is not being accepted today, possibly taking it off the agenda or not voting, and I will only remind 27 that we had the Air Transport Act here and I know that the consequences of the long-term difficulties in putting into the procedure of the Law were financially significant for the BiH state. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2248	Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2249	I would, since I'm a member of this commission, and I've been an apriorier against the Commission's position, so I have to explain here why. First, all of these air traffic contracts were verified, so it was with Švajcarska, we didn't have an original for which the Commission would take a stand to do so, and secondly, I would support the previous speaker with one remark, to see only that the Council of Ministers of BiH had, since Nedžad Eminagić was present on the Commission, in front of the BiH Ministry and he gave instructions and said that it was his personal opinion and for contracts and conditions on transportation and that he had his own personal position, now, whether the authorised person Nedžad Eminagić was authorised by the BiH Council of Ministers to attend, because I did not agree in most positions and what we want BiH to do well, it is okay that we want it, but we can't want a single airline to have a fleet of 120 aircraft and is not able to have it, so that even if I should allow them to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to carry them in full and to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to stay with their ability to work as much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2250	poslanik Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2251	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that if we don't have effective and good work, at least we have skilled commissions. You see, this report by the Commission is on the right line that both what works well and what raises BiH's hope is a bit under suspicion. For me, the Commission's first position is valid in which it says: the Commission has considered the Agreement on Intermediate Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government and has assessed that there is a constitutional basis for granting consent to its ratification. This is the sufficient position of the Commission that appreciates constitutionality, rather than lecturing. The BiH Council of Ministers, I suppose, had all this in mind when it concluded and signed the agreement. And if we're going to do it again today, the question arises, have we had these original versions of English on all other agreements as it is today insisted or suspected of something? But if it is suspected, it must be open and say what the problem is and who can come to the commissions on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers and observe the work of committees on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers. And the real question arises whether the present member spoke on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers or on his own behalf. And I think this work of the Commission and the Commission's report are on the line to ruin sometimes the good thing. That is why I am on the line to support and ratify the agreement in the interest of BiH and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2252	We have a replica, but a gentleman called before, and then you, then Dokić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2253	First, MP Špirić made an incomplete statement, as far as I can see, of the Commission's report on constitutional and legal issues, which is likely to be said by its president because they have made the same observation as the Commission for Transport and Communications. It is, in fact, that MPs should decide whether to give consent to materials that are not credible because they are unsigned, unparaphed. It's an essential question, if we're going to do it that way, if we're going to do it that seriously. If we're willing to give our vote of consent to ratify the Agreement without seeing who signed it or who initialled it, then I don't know if that's how we're going to do it. So we didn't tell the Commission, we didn't take the stand to refuse but to ask the MPs if they were willing to work this way. If we've worked before, does that mean we have to work all the time? That's one thing. I wouldn't be a spokesman for the gentleman, I don't even know what your name is, you're Eminović, if you said so, but he came here in front of the BiH Council of Ministers to help us, as a professional person, the Commission made its conclusions based on the data she had. Mr Špirić, I assume that you were busy with something else while I was saying, this is the report of the Commission on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, I was speaking in front of the Commission on Transport and Communications, which, unfortunately, has no written conclusion, I think it is a misunderstanding, therefore, I am speaking on behalf of the Commission for Traffic and Communications. So I will repeat the view that we have concluded that we had the materials on which we should ask the MPs whether they are ready to vote for something that is unsigned and unverified, and the reasons why we had doubts, we have had doubts, we have been warned that Article 1, point C. is written in plural, and it is assumed that it should be written in one because the Civil Aviation Act assumes, or regulates that international agreements and for them the BiH Department of Civil Affairs is responsible, therefore, BiH and should stand in one. So it's up to the MPs to decide whether to vote or not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2254	poslanik Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2255	(speaks now) I can't help but notice that in a language sense this name is very wrong because in all languages of the people and the nationalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina read this to read that it is an agreement that air traffic will take place between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Austrian Federal Government. What does this Agreement mean?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2256	Ambassador Kadić. Please, let's hear the MPs. The MP can't begin.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2257	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, 29 I will Govorić of three things very precisely. First, Mr Špirić said that he does not see from the Commission's report that it is a controversial paraphrasing. That's very precise in attitude 2, Mr. Špirić, it says. I'm correcting a completely incorrect allegation. That's one. Two. In conclusion, the Commission that adopted this House of Representatives, I think, is the sixth, said that the Constitutional Commission is considering drafts and proposals for laws, other regulations and general acts adopted by the House on their compliance with the Constitution of BiH and the legal system as well as on legal processing, and submits a report with the opinion and proposals of the House. We had an unparaphed text of the agreement and, legally speaking, we do not consider it valid for deciding at a session of the House of Representatives. And below three. Mr. Chairman of the House is a mild suggestion. When we have laws on the agenda, which come to us from the Council of Ministers of BiH, then discussions are given in the next order, first to the competent committees in the House of Representatives, then, necessarily, the statement and the question of whether the BiH Council of Ministers has any further explanations on this, and then to the discussion. This time, the usual procedure has been injured, and the BiH Council of Ministers' silence on this case extends a terribly important debate on this and takes us, unnecessarily, the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2258	Thank you very much. I accept this in part, and I gave the presidents my word, and the gentleman who signed it and delivered it, I guess they didn't change their minds during the night. I thought they were, you know, to get back to me. Mr. Tomić called and Mrs. Čolo called.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2259	Ladies and gentlemen, honored MPs. The agreement on air traffic between BiH and Austria, along with the one last time we adopted between Switzerland and BiH, are two typical agreements that say we should not work. However, at the time these two agreements were reached, firstly to remind the MPs, this one here, on 21.8 last year, not this year, when this Agreement was signed. So, the agreement was signed a year and a month ago. At that time, there was no possibility of functioning the Civil Aviation Department which was then in the phase that three Directors-General had been appointed and struggled to find some space for itself, so that part of the professional affairs was done through the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and, unfortunately, I can say it openly, indeed, by one approach that was then introduced by the Council of Ministers approved both of these agreements, but then the Minister did not sign it in good time, signed the text of the agreement, 21.8., and that in a way that shows that it should not be done because it was made only in English, which is not the official language of the Signing States, which is contrary to our rules for signing international contracts where contracts should be signed in the domestic languages, and if necessary, then in English, which is also good in this case, since this English language is in that international association of official languages etc. 30 But after that agreement, here, for a year there was no procedure and again one mistake, the College of Parliament puts on the agenda a document sent by the minister, not the Council of Ministers of BiH, not the service of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but the minister. It's the next failure of the College to put it on the agenda. However, the fact is that at the moment we signed this Agreement, this Agreement was a gateway to the world for BiH because this began the daily flights of Austrian airlines from Sarajevo that were the main flights used by all these international officials who came to BiH. Flights from Banja Luka started and flights from Mostar began. In agreement with colleagues and with the conclusion that we had with the Civil Aviation Department which has taken over and which is now much more professionally working with one fundamental principle, with a specified type contract, with the determination of delegations that negotiate, etc., we propose the following conclusion. Yes, the BiH Parliament today, since this is a process of granting consent to ratification by the BiH presidency, that today Parliament should agree that the BiH Presidency should ratify the contract made up in English. The second conclusion, that the BiH Council of Ministers is to make sure that we say so, since we will not make it up, but to ensure a translation that will be verified by the BiH Council of Ministers and published in the Official Journal of BiH as the only valid translation. Because here today we have translations that are different in our languages, Cyrillic is different from Latin, but the only one still has plural in both languages, but in translations it is not the same. We therefore propose that consent be given to ratifying the Agreement in English, as signed and 2nd, to ensure that the BiH Council of Ministers publishes a regular translation into all three languages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2260	I think the discussion on this point is over. I propose, therefore, that both of Mr Tomić's conclusions go to the voting package, means that consent is given to ratifying the agreement between the government of Austria and the Council of Ministers on Air Traffic, but in English and to refer it to the BiH presidency. Secondly, the BiH Council of Ministers translates the Agreement into the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and publishes it in the Official Messenger. Shall we again, to be exact, deliver here for consent, then publish in the Official Messenger? There's no need. We have two suggestions now, come on, if there's any need. That's two suggestions now. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2261	I think the BiH Council of Ministers has its own lecturers and they are responsible for the translation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2262	So there's no need to deliver. I'm making both proposals in the voting package. Who's in? 31 Quorum, therefore, makes 27, voted 25. Who's against it? Two MPs abstained from voting. Any objections to the voting procedure? There isn't. I'm realizing that there's been an agreement for ratification...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2263	I only ask you, you will have the following problem again, none of BiH's joint institutions has their own lecturer, we are obliged to sign in the languages that are in BiH other than the international contracts we sign in the languages that are in BiH. BiH has no official lecturer in any institution, nor in the Council of Ministers of BiH, neither in the ministries nor in the BiH Parliament. So please think about it, because you'll have a similar problem again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2264	One, the other.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2265	I refer the proposal, as a representative in this Parliament, to the College of the House of Representatives, to point 2 or 2 of the Constitutional Commission's conclusions, to specify and guide the formal form as a means of communication in the future relations between the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2266	Thank you. poslanik Špirić. Please write this down, here, we have, that's attitude 2 right there quite clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2267	Ladies and gentlemen. After Mr Božanić's intervention, did he speak on behalf of the Council of Ministers or on behalf of the Council of Ministers? That's very important. I accept the decision we voted to ratify the agreement in English, everything else when it comes back to Parliament. It doesn't really matter if it's single or plural. There's the essence of our misunderstandings. And that's why I'm withdrawing my share of the vote after this intervention. So, I accept ratification in English, and the other variations when they come, to come back to Parliament. It's not a big deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2268	I ask the MP, you have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to propose a new conclusion for the vote, please formulate it, give it to the service to define it immediately, to resolve it immediately. Because the new conclusion of the vote is let's see what it is. Here you go. poslanik Jahić. Please, can you keep it down?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2269	Please, nice. What someone suggests, including MP Špirić, I don't think it makes any sense, really. Anyone who has anything to do with languages and translation knows that this is an exact thing about which there is no, so to speak, their subjective, political approaches, opinions, some political topics, but the terminology in a particular language, especially of this kind and of this nature, I don't think there is a general need to come any kind of later verification in the Assembly, especially from people who are simply not referred, or familiar with neither the terminology nor the language that is being translated, there are people who are measuring and I don't see any reason why this thing doesn't end at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH as proposed by the chairman, I absolutely support the conclusion that has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2270	Thank you. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2271	After a great debate, the problem returned to the beginning, gentlemen, of your proposal, read the Commission's report on constitutional issues, it warns of it and asks the Assembly to plead, and I just didn't know if there were any translations and what the translation was, but I simply formulated the proposal to ratify the agreement in English, when the translation was provided to return to the Assembly, it was your proposal. Why and don't, please, Mr. Tomić's proposal is equally equal to my proposal. After Mr Božanić's intervention, I have such a proposal because none of the ministers feel the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2272	Here you go, Branko, if it's a replica, it's not a discussion, then it's before Mr Neimarlija. You should have told me what it was.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2273	The presidency, fellow MPs, encouraged me a little bit, to be honest, this subsequent intervention of Mr Božanić, following the very precise information we received from Mr Tomić, where we learned that, in fact, the contract was signed a year ago and that it was a ratification of the English text that was only possible at that time. Why did she discourage me? Because this is neither a poetic nor a metaphysical text, but a technical text of a legal nature and it is its technical translation. Earlier, any translation service in Sarajevo that the BiH Council of Ministers can rent, if it does not have its translators, could translate it into Serbian, Bosnian, Croatian, valid, again, as "valid" translates into two other languages. This is discouraging for the simple reason why we deal with the possibilities of complications about one technical text, the text of technical nature. Unity and plural cannot be united in Serbian and plural in Bosnian and vice versa. Unity and plural are in English, and plural and in one of these languages. If the BiH Council of Ministers approved it, then they know because they are actors of signing the English translation, in that sense I think. Whoever signed it knows the text. 33
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2274	Thank you. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2275	Please, we have to make a statement, so I've come to the dilemma at all now that we're discussing, have we voted in favour of the proposal, or Mr. Neven Tomić's information, or the paper we got for the assembly? I ask you, is this the paper that we received in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH because I do not share the Council of Ministers with this or that, and for me is the Council of Ministers of BiH, and all the ministers in that Council, do we vote on this paper that we did not vote on, we voted on what Mr Tomić is, now I ask him if that is your position, he says, if it is the Council of Ministers of BiH, is that the paper we had, which we discussed on the Commission, and we are discussing now? I argued, gentlemen, the same thing you're saying now, and on the Commission I claimed that the Council of Ministers of BiH, that it is not important that we enter into these conclusions at all. There's something else, it's not in the air traffic translation as we think it is, and we'll agree that so far the Air Traffic Directorate has had great complications to come up with a unique, what has happened. If we're talking about it, I'd ask, if we say that we voted against this, if it's wrong, if we vote for what Mr. Neven Tomić is, then that it's Mr. Neven Tomić and we accept it, and thirdly, that, if we should, if we should, we're thinking about whether it's decadent from the text, then we're going to call, not one man from the BiH Federation's Air Traffic Ministry, but we're going to call their directorate completely for the civil air force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2276	Define your proposal at the Secretariat. Please respect the order.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2277	I fought bloody hard to get into this position. I would ask you that, many of us expected this to be a matter of form, but I think that we have made it too much and unnecessaryly complicated, and before I give my comment on this, I would ask the Presidency to take care of it if I applied for a discussion before someone came forward for the replica, let them give him the right to discuss it, because otherwise we will play it, to report for the replica and, like others, to speak quite anything else that doesn't matter, so that this order respects, I hope you agree, about this law specifically. Every MP has the right to present his proposals, but I will explain why I believe that what we have voted for is better than what is proposed. In fact, we have ratified an agreement in English, the translation that will be published in the Official Messenger in the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a greater guarantee that it will be correct than it will already go to the Assembly rather than go through the Assembly. Why? If it goes through the Assembly, we have to be honest with each other, we don't read everything in detail, many things wrong,”tentically wrong” we say if someone wants to tend to translate wrongly, we will pass and 34 when we ratify it we can't change it. The Ratified English-language Agreement provides us with the opportunity to comment on every translation and to ask for correction, because we do, and in that sense I am now looking for a correction to the literal translation of the title of this Agreement, because literally, when translated from English, it is like this - when you look at the meaning in our languages, here, I will read you carefully - the air traffic agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Austrian Federal Government. Air traffic will be carried out.....so that the agreement between these governments on air traffic will be translated into an official title, so that I will not be in a position to intervene as a lecturer engineer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2278	Thank you very much. I'm obliged, I'm going to put these things to rest, and I'm just going to tell you the way of publication. The BiH Council of Ministers is obliged, when it translates, to submit the text of the law here to the Assembly where the lecturers will carry out their work in all three languages and only then go to the publication. I think any further discussion, and this is the path that's going towards us, then we can only determine, if there's a slow one for this time, then let's figure it out, if there's a slow one for this time. There's no question about it. You'll get the word, I just thought and I think this dispute has been overcome here, gentlemen MPs. If the Council of Ministers of BiH delivers to us, and the lecturers translate in three languages that corresponds to the opportunities of the language in which it is translated, I think there is no dispute. If there is, here you go, Mr. Branković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2279	We do not give consent to the translation of the Agreement, but to the signed Agreement, so that it can be ratified by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, and in the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it should be signed so that it is given consent, rather than agreeing to the translation of the English version that has been translated. This is clearly said by Mr Tomić, when the agreement is signed, then signed in the languages of the party signatories of the agreement, so we should give consent to a package of agreements signed in English, and signed in the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is the correct way to give consent to this Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2280	I agree with you, but Mr. MP, we have given consent to ratification only in English and nothing beyond that. For us, ratification is valid only for English and is implemented. Here you go, Mr. Tomić's intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2281	One thing is irrefutable, that everything that is signed can be ratified, since the text in English is signed, Parliament can only ratify that text, however, for the operation, and I have already mentioned that these two agreements have been made as they were made, but what all the expensive means in the time when 35 are made and that our position is to be re-determined by the shortcomings, which are not signed at the same time and in the languages used in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can do this today, just to overcome this, this is the last one, the next one you get, everyone will be in all languages domestically signed and they will be ratified, not German, French and other versions, so here we ratify the version that's signed, it's in English, because it needs to go into surgery, to implement, to ensure, to say, a quality translation of the agreement that will be ratified by the Presidency, in some of our consent. Now that version of the translation, Mr. Banjac is right, says, when the materials go to the publication from the institutions that send them to the publication, and the official note has its own lecturer service that teaches in languages as well. Because of this, however, we do not have the translation at this time, and therefore the proposal was to secure the translation, send it to the Official Messenger who will lecture in three languages and publish and take responsibility for it, because it has been lectured that it has been lectured according to languages, and the BiH Council of Ministers assumes responsibility that what has been translated into the English version of the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2282	Thank you very much. poslanik Čolo, then Spahić and Lozančić. Please direct your discussion to the problem that is present.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2283	Please, I wouldn't want to delay the debate here rather than point to some of the things that led us to this much debate about one item on the agenda. I think it's inconclusive from both the Parliament Presidency and the one who sent this agreement to deliver an act like this to us that wasn't prepared. The accompanying letter states that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications delivers such an act, if the Agreement has been concluded by the Council of Ministers of BiH, then I think it should have sent us this Agreement and if the Agreement is concluded between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government, then it should not be in the agreement but rather that what Mr Dokić said is not an air traffic agreement between these two executive bodies of the two countries, but an air traffic agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Austria. Also, the Council of Ministers of BiH, which has been sent today, not by the Council of Ministers of BiH, but by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, signed by Minister Marko Ašanin, said in a letter that the Council of Ministers of BiH signed this Agreement, I think it was right for them to write to us when the Council of Ministers signed the Agreement, because it is necessary for us to know, for the first time, that the agreement was signed a year ago, and that we are only giving ratification to this Agreement today. For a short time, just before the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, I would like to point out that we have discussed this Agreement today and that we had no information from whoever sent us the Agreement to debate. Niko of the promoters of this Agreement have attended the session of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission since the conclusion of this Agreement, and I would not agree with the opinion of the President of this Commission that the Commission is obliged to consider 36 only the constitutional basis. No, she is obliged to consider whether the whole agreement and anything discussed in this assembly is in accordance with the constitution and the legal system of this country. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers, you saw, and the adoption of the Law itself has a constitutional basis, but the content of the Law can be unconstitutional and it is within the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission. Please, a little bit more seriousness when proposing material for the Assembly because it is not really common for any of the working bodies to discuss material in the parliamentary procedure without having a proposal for this material to attend the session of the Commission. Then do you only have one man?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2284	Here you go, Ambassador Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2285	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, we agreed, on a proposal from one MP several sessions ago, that we would hold a debate on language and language policy in Bosnia and Herzegovina, even it was proposed to adopt the language law. On the other hand, we agreed to adopt the protocol and procedure of the work of the BiH Parliament and of the Council of Ministers, on this example it is evident that Mr Tomić Neven, vice-president of the Council of Ministers of BiH, showed, revealed, that a document has been travelling between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina for more than a year, and that in two calls of this Parliament, as far as I know, on the eighth month of 1998, there was a call that we did not belong to, perhaps some of them did, but most of these MPs were not in this assembly, it is surprising that their work did not end and that information to me in the Council of Ministers of BiH. It is surprising that a year since then, here, almost a year of our term of office, since the elections of 14 September, and today, 13 and 14 have been elections, exactly one year since our election, this paper from the Council of Ministers of BiH has been unprepared for the end of the decision, but it is also startling that we have made the decision, voted, of the 27 present, 25 with the suggestions that we received from Mr Neven Tomić and the proposals, voted them, and that only after we had voted that document in a way that shows, in fact, that we have to make a decision if we have asked for a statement from the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we have received, if we have put this proposal to the vote and if we voted, positive or negatively, then we should have so much self-respect to continue to work on point 5. We propose to conclude this deal as we voted, and all remarks on the different flows of relations between the BiH Council of Ministers, working groups and committees of the BiH Parliament, to oblige the College to ensure in the future as a normal procedure and I did not propose for no reason, only now see how valuable it was, we have the Ministry of Reconstruction, which will deal only with the relationship of the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament, in order to really speed up the procedure, at least shorten it from one year to one month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2286	I ask you, since these discussions are not heading towards this agenda point, only if it wasn't for Mr Spahić, I would interrupt, but I won't do it anymore, because, simply, I will be forced if, and I don't know what you would be discussing right now. Here you go, but let's bring this to an end sometime. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2287	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I only called to draw attention to Mr. Chairman's future follow-up and ask when the debate was concluded, when he approaches the vote, the point is over. Also, if the Council of Ministers of BiH or Mr. Neven Tomić performed as a representative, or in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, let us be told whether this was agreed within the Council of Ministers of BiH, because the foreign minister's resignation, Deputy Minister, Mr. Božanić, has brought us back to the debate, given that it is necessary to agree, whether they come forward personally on their own behalf, and if there were conclusions, that the conclusions are being voted on. We have begun to waste time again and to re-exhaust ourselves in the debate, and we have accepted the proposal, so we have accepted this agreement signed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, along with this supplement, which was presented by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, as far as I understand it and, indeed, should have just said that it has no agreed position and that each of the deputies and the ministers present here have been granted an opinion. We can take it all back to the beginning and discuss taking care of this in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2288	Thank you very much. I should now call the Rules of Procedure, here, go further and I ask you, it is not disputed, and I would like to inform you that we have concluded, voted on the proposals made by Mr. Tomić, and we have given consent to ratification in English and that it is known that we have made it known that we have made the Council of Ministers of BiH ensure translation into the languages of the people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it is regularly published in the Official Messenger. It's closed and there's no... In addition, he has a right, MP Špirić asked for it, he has a business right and I have a Rules of Procedure ahead of me and I cannot challenge anyone's right to seek and accept it. I'm asking him to drop out of that proposal and we wouldn't vote twice on the same thing. However, if we should vote on something, then here I am reading what the MP wrote, after translation and lecturing of the texts of the Agreement on air co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of Austria in the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the agreement to submit to the Parliament, the House of Representatives. Is that what you mean, MP? I just want to finish this, what it says, and please let me say this, or I'll ask you for a word from now on. Can I get this to the end? Thank you very much. 38 Gentlemen, I can put to the vote something that will be signed, this will not be signed, Ambassador Špirić. I do not know what to declare. It'll be signed, it's something else.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2289	Not signed, but verified. The proposal in languages must be verified by the BiH Council of Ministers, not signed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2290	Watch out, well, then, please, formulate a proposal. To get them, it's a regular procedure, it's not a dispute. Here you go. Member of the Secretariat, with my approval and clarification, I'll give it. Please, well, there's a man's right to give an explanation, if that's allowed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2291	Here, like this. Let me tell you something. Everything that is for publication, goes, is delivered to the competent service of the House of Peoples. In this service of the House of Nations, comparison in all three languages of the text is done, and only then can it go to the publication. That's why professional people have qualifications for it. And no document, without that service, can go public.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2292	You won, but since you left.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2293	Just so we understand that it's over. Translations in the languages of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, therefore, to ensure translation, must be verified by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Am I right? I mean, just maybe I'm wrong. So they have to be verified. I beg you, we say, there must be, there is a procedure for publication. Is there a possibility that the Council of Ministers of BiH, if there is a possibility of not agreeing on the translation, because if we consider the contract verified in English, then all of this further in vain, means we have verified it in English. Any other conclusion beyond that is excessive. Well, every second of all, I suggested that at the outset we verify this agreement as it is in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But the Commission's proposal was complicated because what was sought was required. But I'm telling you, all the other conclusions are put in the Ad act. So the English translation has been verified and all the other debates are too high.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2294	poslanik Dokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2295	Please, 15 years ago I read a thought said by the famous English writer Bernard Shaw, who said: “The biggest thing that separates Amerikanac and Englez is their common language.” I must admit that I didn’t realize it then, but now I fully understand it. Thank you very much. I have to say, I do not have a clear proposal from MP Špirić and I do not have a clear proposal to vote on Mrs Balte's MPs and I cannot put them to the vote. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: a) Information on further work on the preparation of the Work Programme, Information only, please, you receive this as information. Nothing more. The College agreed to give you the following information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's College of Representatives held a joint meeting with the co-chair and vice-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers, in 16.9.1999. It is agreed to wait for the alignment of the BiH Council of Ministers' Work Programme to be agreed by the end of this month at the latest. Following the agreement of the BiH Council of Ministers Programme with OHR, the programme will be delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina within the specified deadline. The draft work programme of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary House of Representatives will then be prepared, taking into account the programme of work of the BiH Council of Ministers, the current proposals of the College's Work Programme, parliamentary clubs and MPs. There is an idea that the programme of work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is working for the entire term of office, which will be later agreed on. Information complete. Please receive only as information. Furthermore, we have received from the BiH Constitutional Court a decision that is at our disposal, and you have obtained it in the material today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2298	Thank you very much. Do you demand, MP, that we make that clear? Thank you. He's got a right to run, he's got, he's got, absolutely yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2299	Mr. Chairman, I'm really getting a little uncomfortable how many times I have to intervene at this session of yours. You said this was just gonna be an intervention, information, and then you let the discussion open. I would like to remind my colleague Dokić that he, with his vote against, helped us not to adopt the Work Programme today. And his discussion brings us back to reopening the discussion we had at the last session. Come on, please, then we'll, uh, we'll be working here for four, five hours, tired, and you'll be bringing this serious subject back. Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2300	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I must say this moment that I accept that the chairperson and members of the College must be tolerated to frustration and I am aware that I must be tolerant to frustrations, but also, Mr. MP, I ask you nicely, and all others, to read Rules of Procedure, and item 4, Article 6, reads: “At the sitting each member may propose additional points of the agenda and request that votes be made.” Don't stop me from running a session and don't stop me, please don't interrupt me by holding a session. I'm sorry, don't do that. This is the second time I've thought I wouldn't have to intervene, and now I have to. So, you have, it's your right to accept, you won't, but I don't think we should be developing such an atmosphere here that we're going to resent each other because we're proposing. I wouldn't want to do that. So, Mr. Dokić suggests that the Programme or the part of the Programme agreed to accept points b), c), d), e) and f) means that everything other than the point (a), which is legal, and that new positions are added, and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will discuss all the laws that are a condition for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into the Council of Europe and 41 all the laws and other acts of the Madrid Declaration which are within the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Did I interpret your proposal well? Full sentence, great. Please put MP Dokić's proposal to the vote, please quorum, how big it is. 25, please, is it still 25? Yes, it is. Who's for MP Dokić's proposal? Nine for it. Please, given the number of people present in the hall, there is no need to hold the vote until the end, I believe that the proposal, in fact, has not received the necessary majority. Switching to other information under b). Please, just information. The Constitutional Court's decision. It shall be determined that Articles 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12. 13, 15, 19, 20, 21, 3rd, Article... etc. you have the text not agreed, we are obliged to agree within three months and publish in the “Official Messenger”, therefore, in accordance with the law with the Constitution. You're being informed, there's no, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're not, we're going to, we're going to have to, we're going to need that information so much, I don't think there's any need to comment, it's just a matter of respect. And you were informed, therefore, because the question was, the goal was, was the question before it arrived, did it arrive, we were notified officially. Please, one more time. You're a Lagumdžija. Dr. Lagumdžija, is it about information?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it is good that we put this information on the agenda, however, Mr. Chairman, we, if you thought that you only put this information on the agenda, so you tell us, here, you got the material, then indeed, we should not have been put in, but you could have just informed us, without the agenda point that this information was delivered to us. I expected, Mr. Chairman, that someone from the College would, I suppose, answer some of the questions that arise from this, and I expected that the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH would now tell us at what stage the proper documents to be drawn up by the Constitutional Court of BiH should be implemented. It's perfectly natural. We all know that by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the court's decision is final. We know that we have nothing to discuss now whether or not this should be discussed, but that, in fact, someone should now report to Parliament what they are going to do and whether there is enough, whether there is something that needs from this Parliament, whether there are political problems to be realized now, rather than putting us in a position to realize in three months that we have entered into an unconstitutional position that is already here. Also, Mr. Chairman, I am invited by the fact that it is evident from this argument that the Constitutional Court's decisions, otherwise, and the Constitutional Court's memos are not respected in the way that it is common in the modern world. I'll just distract you. You may note, Mr. Chairman, that on March 10th of this year, the Constitutional Court has required you to see this in the last paragraph of Article 2 of this information, the Parliamentary 42 of the BiH Assembly and the BiH Council of Ministers, within 30 days, to deliver the answers to an appropriate request. On March 10th, the Constitutional Court asked the BiH Council of Ministers to tell him something, the BiH Council of Ministers on 12 May is still pro-longing the matter. You can already see that it is a common practice for the BiH Constitutional Court's memos, as explained here, to show that the BiH Council of Ministers did not respect the BiH Constitutional Court's letter. This also shows, Mr. Banjac, that the College has acted completely unsynchronized on this matter. This shows Mr. Genjac to the Constitutional Court of BiH, past you, informed the Constitutional Court and said, we do not need your memo, but send this letter to us a little later. And here it is very clear that Mr Genjac, acting as the chairman of the Constitutional Court of BiH, has requested that, as it stands here, given the delay in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the deadline has been extended at the request that you refer to the chairman. Look, let me get one thing straight. It is not at all disputed that we have nothing to discuss about the Constitutional Court's decision, so it should be implemented, now, for this, we, as Parliament, see if there will be any problems, so that we do not come into a position for three months that we have a completely unconstitutional situation in which we are practically bringing the country into question no longer the Council of Europe's threshold, but we are bringing the country into one situation leading to the complete disintegration of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the complete structures defined in the Dayton Agreement. Please note that the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision raises a complete Dayton Agreement, the complete constitutional structure on which this rests. So, please, I am offered the fact that so far the work on this subject has, however, shown that the Constitutional Court does not take seriously, the way it should be taken. And please, Mr. Chairman, I would like to, if the Council of Ministers of BiH is not ready to tell us more today on this subject, that the Council of Ministers of BiH will commit itself to us at the next session, within the point we have already spoken, that, at the very least today, here, according to this information, we will conclude that the Council of Ministers of BiH will commit to us at the next session of the programme that we adopted, that it will give us a report, that it will give us a special review, that it will tell us that it thinks and whether there are any problems in implementing what the BiH Constitutional Court has given us. So, I would ask that we make some active conclusion that obliges the Council of Ministers of BiH, so that we may no longer be children. Here on the fourth page, in the third paragraph from above, the second paragraph of Article 4 most literally states: that the Constitution has clearly established the classical function of prime minister appointed, in accordance with Article 5/4. The Constitution. Look, what it says here, which is the decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, this is not a question of whether or not they are one or two and whether Mr. Tomić himself is, unconstitutionally, unconstitutional as chairman. This puts completely new light on the role of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the political relations that exist here. It is not that someone should now say I am seven days, here, three months, here, seven or eight months, but it is that the BiH Constitutional Court has made it clear that we have a classic mandate that we seem not ready to face in reality, and the BiH Constitutional Court is, therefore, serious things. I suggest, so we don't get into a position before Christmas, New Year's Eve, one, the other, the third, we get into a situation to realize that we've brought the country into constitutional disembarkation. I draw attention to all colleagues from both entities because, I think, both to all the constituent peoples and to all the political 43 parties that the non-implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of BiH raises a complete constitutional arrangement on which the country rests. And he should be aware of that today, not in three months that we're calling ourselves here and I don't know what we're coming to. Comrade Banjac, I ask you to make a working conclusion, if Mr Tomić is now ready to go out with one serious, I don't think, colleague Tomić, I believe that you are always able to go out for this pay phone and say too many words that will open up the possibility of talking, too, to stop the conversation, but if you think you have enough prepared to elaborate this, then I suggest that we stay on this agenda for a little while longer, but if there is no willingness, that we don't play here little children, yes, then prepare for the next session one serious elaborate, what do you think now, if you and the BiH Presidency should come to tell us what they are going on with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2302	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Let me just say, thank you, first of all, for starting some questions that I thought I didn't need to talk about today, because they might open up some other dilemmas that are really present. First of all, the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH is final and binding and there is no dispute. It is therefore an obligation that within three months, the Council of Ministers of BiH should not, but must make a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH agreed with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is in a decision that has been delivered and officially published, delivered to the BiH Assembly and to the BiH Council of Ministers and published in the Official Messenger. So, the potential for someone to do something they already have to do, I think it's too high. But you've opened up another question that's very important. It is true that Mr. Genjac, without my knowledge, as a member of the College, did what he did. That's right. I didn't mean to say it, but it's true. But it is also true that the BiH Council of Ministers, in its memos of 12, has exceeded its powers. And I think these are the reasons why we are going to ask for a postponement, in such a way, without Parliament's opinion, is wrong. That's in my opinion, and does anyone think otherwise, of course, that there's a question left. But what's there is. I think we all have another task ahead of us and we shouldn't be opening up dilemmas. It is my opinion that it is possible to accept Mr Lagumdžija's proposal that we, in the report that we have already made, conclude that we are asking the Council of Ministers to strengthen yet another conclusion, which is that the Council of Ministers of BiH is obliged to make a special reference to the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court's decision on the fate of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, because it refers here to the unconstitutional nature of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law and I think that's fine. Replica. The replica, so you will replicate, and so will you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2303	I, of course, asked for the response of the BiH Parliament and the House of Representatives, trying to speed up this decision. Unfortunately, at the time I did so, I couldn't get a statement from the House of Representatives, because MPs from Republika Srpska had frozen their work. I also remind you of my colleague Banjac and Mr Lagumdžija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2304	Okay. I think it was a replica. And you're a replica, and you're not. Then first, they'll replicate. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2305	If I understand correctly, Mr Lagumdžija is asking for representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers to appear at the next session, which will say, to inform this home about what is going on in the plan for the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision, i.e. what concrete steps are being taken on the plan. What I can say is that this thing, in my view, is absolutely identical with the proposal that we have made here, as part of the debate on the overall functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers, is also a quality debate on the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, because it is quite a matter of fact that the realisation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision is, in fact, some kind of reconstruction. I do not see, on the basis of this, some political meaning in the fact that Mr Lagumdžija himself has not declared himself in favour of the proposal that, as part of the debate on the overall functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers, an immediate debate on the very process of reconstruction of the executive body, especially in the light of the fact that the functioning of the BiH Council of Ministers is well dependent on the organisation and overall structure of that body. I think it's very important to point out here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2306	Thank you. Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2307	I think that, ladies and gentlemen, the memory of Mr Genjac and without the help of Mr Hadžović is probably coming from the beginning of the mandate that he has taken over and I think that the hypocrisy he is showing at this point towards the MPs from Republika Srpska, for the political pranks he has made, related to this act, is not good and is not good for the sake of this Parliament's work. To seek justification, by order of Mr Hadžović, here, two minutes ago, to accuse Serbian MPs of his address to the BiH Constitutional Court is, at the very least, incorrectly, Mr Genjac. As you have done, we are in such a situation now, but such work, I assure you, will not feed the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and do not deceive them for the mistakes you are making. I really ask you, this little statement of yours deserves to at least apologize to 45 MPs here from Republika Srpska, because our absence did not force you to address the Constitutional Court of BiH in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2308	Replica, then Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2309	I will refrain from the larger words and remind you that Mr. Banjac said – indeed, Mr. Genjac did not consult me, and he replied to the Constitutional Court of BiH with this sentence. And, indeed, I couldn't consult because your memory should remember at least enough to remember what period you had a moratorium on it. It absolutely matters, because Mr. Banjac says we did not consult him at the BiH Constitutional Court's reply. I couldn't consult him because there was a moratorium at the time. I don't think I've said anything ugly, I don't think I've accused it. I'm merely stating the circumstances that I stated in response. I said, "I ask you to extend the deadline for Parliament's reply, because of the impasse in Parliament's work." Is there something false about that? Was Parliament's stalemate at the time, was it a stalemate to freeze the work of part of Republika Srpska's MPs? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2310	poslanik Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2311	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, you see, I don't think we really agree on much here, and I don't want to open that debate. But since this conclusion I suggested here is problematic, he wants to draw attention to two things. 1. We didn't think today was the time to seek responsibility for why we came into this situation and, if necessary, collective and individual, when I say collectively I mean the Council of Ministers of BiH. The moment we come into the constitutional crisis, bear in mind that we are 28 plus 14, or 42, regardless of who is present, who is absent, is responsible. We're all responsible together - 42 of us. There is also individual responsibility here, and I think there is collective responsibility in the BiH Council of Ministers for coming to this. We think there's a collective responsibility and a college for all this. However, we did not ask or think that the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers is what is said to be ahead of us. Please, the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers is your internal political matter, among you who have decided to create it in an unconstitutional manner. I draw attention to the fact that we, the complete SDP and NHI MPs' club, when we discussed this together, have abstained from supporting this law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Council of Ministers established on these grounds, because we were then warning that it was unconstitutional. So we absolutely have no responsibility for that - on the contrary. But we don't think the Council of Ministers of BiH should be reconstructed. We think we need a new construction, a constitutional structure new, and the political structure will wait until next year, unfortunately. So we're not affecting the new political structure. It will be decided in the elections. We're looking for a new constitutional structure. No reconstructions are considered as far as we're concerned. I would therefore ask you, Mr. Banjac, not to open 46 discussions about the responsibility of all this, but one, as they say, a minimalist request, which I thought was a matter of common sense. To conclude, we are getting an active relationship from the BiH Council as soon as possible, so that Parliament can be in an active relationship. And, Mr. Banjac, since I seem to have broken the idyll here in the College, apostrophe of what Mr. Genjac asked until May 30 to pro-long this. I can tell you that it is not clear to me now that I have heard you and Mr Genjac, because in this paper that we have received, that is, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH on five pages, here only write two things: first, that the Council of Ministers of BiH has broken the deadline given to him by the Constitutional Court of BiH, and that is then to disrespect the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. This is now, if it breaks through, the non-compliance of the Constitution, which is an even harder category, and you, Mr Genjac, were not able to meet with Banjac here at the time, as you say here, a delay in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly which is not disputed and you asked until 30 May to extend the deadline for giving an answer on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly, because you could not meet or telephone. But it doesn't say anywhere here -- when you started meeting, what answer did you give? Look, you haven't given any answer to this day, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, which you're asked to make. Please, I don't want to open the debate any further, I'm just distracting you that if you go into the debate, we'll go too far and it won't get us anywhere. So please just reflect on this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2312	Let's calm this down. I'm not aware, really, what's our goal now with this debate, where do we go from here? Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2313	Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't want to take part in the debate, but I'd like to give a few fresh information, given that there's a certain proposal for conclusions here that I think, given the position of this activity, that they don't need to be made. Namely, what's this about? The Constitutional Court adopted this Decision on 14th08, which has not yet been published in the “Official Messenger” and which we were all notified of two days ago. As you have received - 13.09. was sent from the Constitutional Court of BiH. Therefore, one month after the Constitutional Court has adopted this decision, the decision has not yet been published, and the deadline for alignment is three months from the date of publication of that Decision. However, the BiH Council of Ministers asked the BiH Presidency -- two days ago we had a Joint session, where we also discussed this Decision -- more up-to-date than you expected, and where we reached conclusions in two directions. First of all, it is one direct application of the Constitutional Court Decision. So, the issue of resolving the functions of the chairman and chairman, and the second issue is reconstruction, i.e. further reforms in the Council of Ministers, reorganisations, etc., with a view now to the possibility of these two things being done in one procedure, or being done in two phases of what is to be achieved, I hope, an agreement. When it comes to comments, just to say so - related to the response of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which was out of 30 days, which was given by the BiH Constitutional Court at that time by the Council of Ministers, I must mention the 47 reasons that Mr Genjac spoke of, I must mention the situation which was related to the assassination of Mr Leutar and that the Council of Ministers at that time did not work and that at its first session after that situation, it identified such a response which was no excess of constitutionality because, in the request of Mr Banjac, sent to the Constitutional Court of BiH, it was said: the status of co-chairs and co-chairs and what about the decisions of the BiH Council of Ministers made. And the Council of Ministers said -- first you establish your status, and then you can talk about what happened to the decisions made by the Council of Ministers in the meantime and what, in the end, the BiH Constitutional Court said in its odluka that the position of co-chairing and chairing was not constitutional, but since Parliament adopted the law, that decisions remain valid. In this context, I think the BiH Council of Ministers has had a correct relationship with this business this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2314	Thank you very much. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2315	I'd like to discuss on the line of Ambassador Lagumdžija who spoke before me. I do not think that the position of this assembly should be indifferent and that we should only take note of the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH. This Decision does not oblige the BiH Council of Ministers to comply with the provisions of its Law with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but is bound by the Assembly. And, this Assembly, as a carrier of activity, must specify future activities and must specify deadlines. We must not leave the case if, within three months, we do not comply with the provisions and laws of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because, then, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of BiH, these legal provisions cease to apply. The BiH Constitutional Court is authorised to publish in the "Official List" a decision under which the provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act will cease to apply. So, I think it is necessary for the Assembly to specify who will be the bearer of the amending laws on amendments and additions to the Council of Ministers' Law, in order to establish the constitutional solutions contained in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Whether it will be the BiH Council of Ministers, as a proposing, or whether it will be our authorised Constitutional Commission. It's a matter of purely procedural character. And by the time it takes a draft of that law to come to this assembly. Because the procedure for passing the law is very complex and long, and it takes that law not to be here at the last minute in front of this assembly. More importantly, I think the issue of the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers should not precede the law. The first law needs to be brought into line with the Constitution, and it's very simple. The constitution says: one of the presidents of the Council of Ministers, appointed by the Presidency and the ministers he appoints. So the law needs to be thrown out of unconstitutional provisions. It's a very simple procedure - to bring this law into line with the Constitution. And the issue of reconstruction, resolution, now existing two co-chairs, that's a factual question that follows behind legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2316	Thank you very much. Just one answer, and Mr Spahić will speak. 48 Please, all procedures are initiated on the day that it is published in the “officer of the Service”, because they start to flow for three months from then - they start to flow, not from this when we received. This was information today, and it's all useful that we talked about today. There's nothing that's not useful. We need to go meet, I said, Mr. Lagumdžija, that all of this is useful today and we're going to meet the job that's waiting for us. I think you're okay with that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2317	I would like to express my interest that today's session of the House of Representatives under this item of the agenda and Information will also be concluded by ensuring, in accordance with the Law and the relations between the acts published by the Constitutional Court of BiH, the BiH Presidency, or the BiH Parliament, the publication of this document in the "Official List". So it's possible to respect that deadline. Secondly, I would also like to suggest, since Mrs Čolo has made it very clear that it is time for this House of Representatives to formally take responsibility and that the address to which it should be made binding under Article 5 of this Decision concerning our home, that the Constitutional Commission, led by Mr Kadić, assumes the obligation to comply with this Law and proposes a draft law in accordance with the Constitutional Court Decision of BiH. I suggested that it be in October of the month. It is just so long that in early October, Mr Kadić and the Commission of Parliament proposed a bill that is in line with the Constitution. About the address - another address. The second address is not the BiH Council of Ministers, fortunately, but is the address of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency. Because, after that law, it is normal for the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make a decision on the mandate, on the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and in the meantime it is logical that this Parliament, given the new concept that will have to prevail when we have a mandate, or chair, rather than the situation of the unconstitutional one we have now, will need to be determined according to the Constitution on which we have sworn, to be bound by all MPs - it defines exactly what our obligations are and therefore, I think it would be good that, as a second address, after the Constitutional Commission, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Having opened the procedure between the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the basis of the information we received from Mr Neven Tomić, I consider it important to say that this is a good thing that we have been given today as a document that has not yet been published in the "Official Journal and, as the BiH Council of Ministers has quickly responded to the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I ask that both the House of Representatives do two things formally from this session: to conclude that this is the responsibility of the Constitutional Commission and that the first address of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, with which we will reach agreement on the way and procedure of the mandate and the structure of this Council of Ministers of BiH, and, of course, that we expect from the Council of Ministers of BiH, through the report, to say what his opinions and experiences are from the work so far and, normally, will participate equally in creating these relations between the three institutions that are crucial to Bosnia and Herzegovina. So there would be no constitutional crisis, and that would create conditions for everyone to do their part of the job. 49 Please, gentlemen, keep in mind everything that's been said so far. I propose - there are some discussions here that lead and issues that are not the subject of this information and what I thought was the subject of this information and that can be subdued, I will read them that the joint conclusion of Mr Lagumdžija and Mrs Čolo is as follows - undertakes the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare a special reference to the implementation of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's decision on the non-constitution of the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina by the end of 10 months 1999 and to submit draft laws on amendments to the BiH Council of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Look, please, don't do anything that -- we have plenty of time to do what's here within three months, why rush and crash. Mr. Lagumdžija, do you agree? You agree. Any objections to the proposal for a conclusion? There isn't. I'll do it one more time. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to draw up a special reference to the implementation of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Constitutional Court Decision on the non-constitution of the Law on the Council of Ministers by the end of the 10th month. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, provides the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a draft law on amendments to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. There's still more, we've got a draft, it's just for a proposal of space to make a deal. Who's in favor of this conclusion? As far as the O.R. is concerned, is there any change? - 27 24 for. Who is it? Abstained? 3 Any objections to the voting procedure? There isn't. We are going to the point under c) and v: To me it is addressed - writes Let us inform you that the HDZ Representatives' Club proposes to appoint MP Ana Havel as a member of the Commission on Administrative Affairs of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, instead of the late Joza Leutar. 50 Please place this proposal of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the agenda of the 10th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to verify the mandate of Ana Havel as a member of the Commission on Administrative Affairs. Who is in order to verify the mandate of Mrs Havel's board member? 27. Thank you very much. There's no need to ask further, because so much is present. That's how we ended this point, and I'm closing the fifth point. We move to the 6th point of the agenda of Parliament's questions and answers We have one answered, as far as I've come. This is the answer to Abdulrahman Malkić's parliamentary question, MP of the House of Representatives. Did you get the answer, MP? Yes, it is. Do you have an objection to the answer? You don't. If there's no comment, I don't want to read here and waste my time. Any parliamentary questions? Here you go, Spahić, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2320	Questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2321	I would like to ask Mr. Tomić for the third time for this address, Mr. Tomić, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, so I asked him - as vice-president, to inform him that a letter of Mr. Banjac and Mr. Žigić has been accepted on behalf of our initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Economic and Social Policy in accordance with the competencies of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to express my satisfaction that the BiH Council of Ministers has so accepted the initiative. I hope it will be on the agenda soon, so we can discuss essential issues concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the first one. The second thing I want to do is raise the issue of responsibility of the Constitutional Commission for the Election Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I read from the press that Mr. Vedran Hadžović, who is the secretary of the Constitutional Commission of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, is a member of the Commission for the Making of this document and is actively involved in various discussions, in various bodies with NGOs, etc. This prompted me to ask the following question in Parliament today: 51 When will the OSCE, or Mr Berry, allow our Constitutional Commission to have insight, formally, into a law that revolves with various possible variations and additions in the public, and cannot reach our Parliament and - can we get an answer from the OSCE, from Mr Berry, when will this law come into practice? That's the first question. Since the international community is a partner, we feel it is necessary to ask that question ourselves. The second question is about our... third, therefore, initiative. I believe that it is really necessary, and I will explain this in writing, and now I want to launch this in the context of the right of every MP to launch questions at any time during the sessions that are relevant to BiH, to launch an initiative in the BiH Parliament to amend and supplement and align the entity's constitution with the BiH Constitution in the coming days or weeks. Given that I have recorded the area of human rights, economic policy, displaced and refugees, the protection and preservation of national monuments, the protection of human environment, the position and structure of the capital and local self-government, for these seven issues I will provide the sekretarijat and the College with an explanation and will request an appropriate procedure for the alignment of entity constitutions with the state constitution. Of course, it is the right of MPs and, when they pass through the proper procedure, through the Constitutional Commission and other bodies, I hope we can plead. And it is only to inform Parliament of the position I wish to explain in writing, as agreed, for all initiatives in the next period. Thank you very much. Thank you. Špirić. I ask you to make that question a shorter question, a questionnaire at the end.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2323	I will, of course, appreciate what the chairman says. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session began with the intonation of the BiH anthem that we adopted, which is quite logical, this anthem is intonated outside when BiH delegations and sports associations appear, but the question is that, composer, Mr Dušan Šestić, author, or composer and anthem, are not copyrighted, and that BiH would not enter into a dispute over the matter, that the competent authorities in BiH should consider protecting the copyright of composer Dušan Šestić. And in what way is it meant to be done? There, my question is how will the copyright of BiH's composer be protected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2324	Thank you very much. Let me just say that it was the conclusion of this home that a symbolic gift was given to this man in a convenient way here, except for this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2325	I am very pleased that Mr. Špirić raised this question. I would like to draw attention that I have asked Parliament's Work Programme to enter into the adoption of copyright and freedom laws, and I am glad that 52 have found another more incentive for this law, because only rights under the same law can be protected in accordance with international standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2326	Thank you very much. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, are there any more parliamentary questions? There isn't. No, no, I didn't close the session, wait, please, I know you're in a hurry, how do you think I'm in a hurry? Find so many opportunities to talk. We have an initiative by the Council of Ministers of BiH to hold a session as soon as possible because three key laws for their further work are being prepared and waiting, one was delivered here on August 19th, one was delivered on September 15th and one on September 16th, it is three laws: The proposal for a law on the revision of BiH institutions, you know that we have pressure from OHR that it can work under this Law, of course it concerns the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Proposal for a Law on the solution to the problem in BiH and the Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum in BiH, which is a condition for BiH to receive the Council of Europe. The proposal is for the Kolegijum to hold a session on 23.9. from these three agenda points and two additional ones, which is the adoption of the minutes from the 9th session and the Commission's report on constitutional and legal issues on the implementation of the voting procedure for the draft law on the establishment of a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and illicit drug trafficking, what was at the 6th session, it was the appeal of the Members' Club, etc. But there's one problem, today we adopted here, please, Mr. SDP's MPs, I think it's them now, and we need to make a deal. Here today is the conclusion that at the next session, the first one, so the report on the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH is complemented by this second conclusion today, it is certainly impossible to do until 23rd, if you agree that the next session will be 23 at 12 pm and that we really start at 12 pm, and we start at 12 pm, that's Thursday, to settle these three laws and the minutes of the 9th session, of course, the parliamentary questions are a permanent point, and to move the report for the next one? I'll give you my word, gentlemen, how can I speak, is it possible, sir, can I have a word? Let's make a deal, we're here to make a deal. So, let's adopt these three laws, plus a report by this Commission that's been standing here for a long time and there's no need for the record to stand long, and then for the next session, then, after that, we have a prepared report by the Council of Ministers with the demands that we adopted today in two conclusions. I'm asking you, I have no one else. Dokić will.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2327	My proposal reads – Report and analysis of work, I do not give up on having it at the first session, if we miss it, it will diverge. [[from place]] He'd better wait three, five days, get it ready.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2328	All right, your suggestion is to prolonge to get that, too. It's a deal. Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2329	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to, since this is a session of the House of Representatives in which, in a certain way, we are learning about certain procedures, so I have proved very appropriate that my intervention to the Council of Ministers of BiH must, after the Commission has made a statement on every proposal for the act to come, have proved that, following a statement by President Tomić, we have accepted the agreement, so that we should hardly have discussed it before. At this point, I want to draw attention to something else. When the House of Representatives accepts the initiative and adopts the conclusion, then whoever suggested the conclusion is not the exclusive owner of that conclusion which decides whether or not it will be at the next session. I am against the conclusion we adopted today on the Council of Ministers of BiH's Council of Ministers having some prolongings for some new sessions. It has to be at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2330	It's a deal. So, it can't be Thursday, objectively, there's no way it's gonna be a Thursday session, in which case, we can't look for something that won't be safely realized. Or you could ask us to put it on the agenda, so there's no conclusion, well, then, we take it off the agenda, and that's not serious. Here you go. ____________ Let's keep committees on these issues next week so that we can determine our opinions, so that it doesn't be like this for the Commission to meet when there's a session. [[from place]] Okay. Here, you know the agenda for the next session. You already know him, so that's the report that is today, about the Council of Ministers of BiH in two conclusions, and that's these six points I've read to you, so I'm not reading again, so you know what the content is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2332	I want to replicate Mr. Mirko Banjac, the chairman of this house. I'd like more if my SDP colleagues would listen to me. Not taking the right of any MP to propose conclusions at the beginning of the session, and it seems to me that today there have been emotional proposals for conclusions that have been formulated as a conclusion to the BiH Council of Ministers. Mr. Banjac, I have a question for you. 54 A minute ago, you said we couldn't get information from the BiH Council of Ministers until the next session of the House of Representatives. Why didn't you say that the moment the MPs proposed that conclusion at this house? When we have already proposed that conclusion and adopted it, I insist that it be at the first next session, then, or it must be in seven days, so until that session, or you propose a session at the moment until that conclusion can be reached. Don't blow us away.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2333	Thank you very much, this is a good suggestion. Here, you made me, thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen, you know that 14 days is minimum until the next session, it's business and we don't have, then, what, I was thinking, just one more thing, honourable MP. Not to dispute the Council of Ministers of BiH, to speed up what we can, because we are in a very controversial period, but, gentlemen, the session will be held on Wednesday 29th, on Wednesday, it is a deadline, and, behold, we have, the College will schedule a session and you will be notified in time. There's only one thing a fellow MP would like to suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2334	Please, no matter how tired we all are, and in serious work, we show ourselves unserious, and on a serious one, but I would ask you to listen, I propose, as chairman of the Commission, that the Secretary of the Commission open a special folder for the Commission and that the committees are not held the same day as Parliament's meeting. I will not hold any of the Commission unless every member of the Commission has the material to be analysed, and not that we are supplied with materials as part of the regular materials. The Commission must be serious. So, I propose that the Secretary of the Commission open a budget folder, for all the members of the Commission, and that we agree when that commission will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2335	Mr. Chairman, I believe everyone wants us to finish this as soon as possible, please don't let this all go to waste for five minutes now. I think we understand each other, we didn't adopt the Work Programme on 23rd, but it wasn't a controversial dynamic of Parliament's work, it wasn't at all controversial, by the dynamics we all agreed on, we were supposed to have a 23rd session. You've now informed us, I don't know why, that the Council of Ministers of BiH can't do anything until 23rd, Maltena, Mr. Tomić wanted to tell us right away, but, well, tell me, let's have a little bit of a deal, so it's almost there, if at the same time, you've told us that, according to the Rules of Procedure, in 14 days you've scheduled a session, I mean, this already stops being a procedural thing, one or she, and I'm really asking you not to disabling this fine thing of our own or not, however you will, your own conclusions. We can have a session of the 23rd, and then 23rd, on the agenda of what is agreed, and then at the beginning we will see who didn't do until the 23rd, what he was supposed to do, at the conclusion of this Parliament, that is the starting position that is certainly standing now. If we don't agree on a new one, we have a session on the 23rd, it's according to our arrangement, we have conclusions so let's make sure that we have a session by then. Then we can find out on the 23rd that something 55 didn't do. Another option, if you have more information that I don't have, that something can't happen by 23.9., but we can talk about it, too, but now that you're telling us that you're gonna call a session in 14 days, that we're breaking up today and that we're not in a position to have members or deputy ministers, I'm sorry, they're saying they're not informed about today's session of Parliament, because, as it turns out, they either got something in college yesterday, so don't make it any further, and so I'll resume it. You have two options, if you don't know what you're going to do next, if you're in trouble about what to do, then we have a meeting on the 23rd and 23rd of September should be on the agenda of everything that's ready, and whoever hasn't prepared it by 23rd, for whatever reason, should tell us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2336	No, sir, but every other one, we agreed to that meeting when your representative was, and we didn't adopt him. If you're calling.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2337	You can, Mr. Banjac, you have here enough majority to arrange whatever you want, we've just tried to make what's not controversial, let's do it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-09-17-0.u2338	Thank you. You'll get a call for a session. I'm closing the session. The session ended at 16.50. K-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j-j.
