ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1504	I am opening the 6th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I would like to inform you that a total of 33 MPs are present, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 19 and Republika Srpska 14 MPs. So we have a quorum for legitimate work and decision-making. Before this session, ten days ago, the College of the House of Representatives discussed the draft agenda. It is known that a large number of initiatives have arrived and that there is a certain delay in putting on the agenda some of the issues that have already fulfilled all the criteria for including in the agenda of the House of Representatives, and on this College we have taken into account all that has arrived and suggested the agenda that you received in the invitation to this meeting today. According to the agenda, a total of 14 points are foreseen. After that, several meetings of the working bodies of the House of Representatives were held, including this session of the Constitutional Affairs Commission held just before the start of this session, there were certain suggestions from that commission, there were certain suggestions and requests from individual groups of MPs, and I will now make these suggestions and requests for amendments. The request of a group of MPs from Republika Srpska is that the proposal for a law on administrative fees, that is the 2nd item of the agenda, be postponed for the first next session of the House of Representatives. The 10th point on the affirmation, preservation and protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of education and education, is the proposal for a law tabled by MP Ćeman Mirsad, who, meanwhile, ceased to be an MP, and the Commission's view is that the proposal also withdraws until the conditions for this law to be considered, or until the proposal is submitted by the authorising officer. Furthermore, in the meantime, the draft law amending the Law on Travel document, which was sent to the Council of Ministers by the House of Representatives, where the period of validity of existing, i.e. so far, travel documents has also been changed, and the proposal is for both the College and the Commission to include this item in the agenda and the proposal is to include the point: the reply to the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the request of the Constitutionality of the Council of Ministers Act, which was launched by the Deputy Chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Banjac. The BiH Constitutional Court has sent the chairman a letter asking for answers and the proposal is to place the item on the agenda, with a possible consideration of how to handle the request. 2 There is a way to do it. All other points that you have seen in the draft agenda would remain, since, as I have stated, we have requests for additions and amendments to the agenda. What I have now said, including these amendments and additions, would be the agenda around which there is consent, that is, the consent of all members of the College. This is the minimum around which all members agree, and that is the definitive proposal of the College for the Agenda. There were also different opinions on the proposal. In addition to this fact, in addition to this draft agenda, I am putting the agenda under review, noting that I will put this proposal on the table on which the consent and consent of the members of the College was ensured, and later all additional proposals would be put to a point on the agenda. Please, is there anyone around the agenda? Here you go, Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1505	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have two initiatives today, practically, about the same law. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents. One is an initiative from earlier MPs, and one is an amendment and a proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers. I'm just asking, is that going to be under the same agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1506	No, therefore, there is a special point in the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel Documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was submitted by MPs as an initiative, and the second point is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Travel Documents by the Council of Ministers of BiH and these are two separate points. Since there are no applications for a debate on the agenda, I will read the agenda to make it look complete and we will approach the plea. DN E V N E E E D: 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session, 2nd session Review and adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act, 3. Review and adoption of the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4. Consideration and adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina coat of arms Act 5. Review and adoption of the Telecommunications Act, 6. Draft law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, 7. Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal to amend and supplement Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents law, 9. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents, 10. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a land complex for the accommodation of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, on their status, conditions and method of use, 11. Proposal for a decision to determine the status of the building and ground in Ul. M. Tito 25, both conditions and way to use them, 12. Draft decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 3 13. Response to the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, launched by the Vice-President of the House of Representatives, Mr Banjac, 14. MPs' questions. I call upon the messengers to declare by raising their hands who is on the proposed agenda? 32 votes are in favour. Anybody got any abstentions? Is there anyone against the proposed agenda? Currently, one MP outside the hall, out of 33, 32 voted in favour of the proposed agenda, which was unanimously adopted by the present lawmakers. I thank you and we move on to work on the agenda points. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th session of the House of Representatives text of the minutes you have received. I'm opening a debate. As far as I can tell, there's no record of the hearing and I'm putting the record up for adoption. Please, I call upon the MPs to plead by hand whether you are in favour of the adoption of the minutes of the 5th session? So 32 votes are for, all present MPs, I realize the text of the minutes of the 5th session has been adopted. 2. Consideration and adoption of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina You are familiar with the chronology around this Law, it is known that the Law, according to its powers, has been declared by the High Representative, Mr Vestendorp, is also known that, according to the Declaration of the Madrid Meeting, there is an obligation for the House of Representatives to adopt the Law and to open a debate on the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Citizenship. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1507	Dear gentlemen, gentlemen, on behalf of the Human Rights Commission, which held 9. 2. I am obliged, as its president, to draw conclusions on the Law on Citizenship on the text of the Law on Citizenship. The Commission members made a series of individual comments. However, after discussion and some clarifications by the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Commission unanimously supported the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the following conclusions: 1. In the Law to delete “the preamble of the Law declared by the High Representative”, and to place the appropriate one. 2. In Article 6, delete the words “born after the entry into force of the Constitution” accordingly, and delete the words “after the entry into force of the Constitution”. 3. To immediately approach the creation of amendments to the Law on Citizenship of BiH, since it has noted several provisions of this Law. 4 4. That the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina should adopt the Law on Citizenship as soon as possible, and Republika Srpska, if it has it, eventually comply with the Law on Citizenship of BiH, unless it is in conformity. 5. Since the provisional rules of procedure have not defined the powers of the working committees, to immediately approach the establishment of a permanent Rules of Procedure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Representatives, so that the commission can submit amendments and regulate legal regulations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1508	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1509	Gentlemen Chairman, Koleginica and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to remind you briefly of what preceded the failure to adopt the Law on Citizenship a little over a year and a half ago. There have been several amendments, and in the end we all wanted to make a compromise, that this law would pass in the Assembly, and there was one thing that remained controversial, is the issue of regulating the dual citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the same way as the current law provided for by the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you even if all the presidents of the parliamentary clubs agreed to make one such decision that would create an obligation to implement these procedures because it could not be introduced automatically into the law. On behalf of the Office of the High Representative then Mr. Šumaher was a guest at that session and the Office of the High Representative made proposals for such a decision which, unfortunately, did not go through in the end. It's a brief reminder of what it was. I would also visit you if a letter came from the Office of the High Representative, I believe, to the Republic of Serbia, I know that it did, and also to the Federation of BiH, in June of last year, so just before the election, the letter was signed by the personally high representative, Mr. Vestendorp, in which he called for Article 4. The Constitution, or Article 4. Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship law and the possibility of that dual citizenship member with other states, he suggested that it be implemented to create conditions for the adoption of the Citizenship Act. According to that article, and I'd like you to hear, for those who have forgotten what stands, so Article 4. The law on citizenship says: Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens may have another state's citizenship, provided there is a bilateral agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and that country which is governed by the issue, approved by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in accordance with Article 4, paragraph 4. B. ustav. Accordingly, the MP group of the Syllabic Coalition proposed a proposal for a decision that this assembly, in the procedure of adopting the Law on Citizenship, would adopt and adopt, and thus, with that decision which, if you would like to read, or to copy and share all MPs, would be better, according to that decision, calling for this member, the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina accepts or decide to conclude bilateral agreements on the acquisition of dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. I would remind you, too, that what is in the Law on Citizenship, dual citizenship with Croatia expires five years after the adoption of this Law, so this decision would have the matter fully regulated, that is, by such a decision, the reasoning would have created the conditions to implement the procedure under the Constitution and the Law on Citizenship as it was launched. For starters, I hope that, if necessary, I will give further reasons, with the question of the chairman whether to copy or share the proposal of this decision with all MPs or to read it. It's on one page. On the basis of Article 1, point 7. d. and of Article 4, point 4. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at its meeting, I hope, since 8/6/1999, has decided on conditions for the acquisition of citizenship of another state (double citizenship) Article 1. This Decision lays down basic rules for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on the acquisition of dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the SR Yugoslavia and between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. Article 2 Starting with the fact that the right to citizenship is a fundamental human right, Bosnia and Herzegovina is ready to recognise its citizens, by its own choice, and the citizenship of the SR of Yugoslavia or the Republic of Croatia. Article 3 Bosnia and Herzegovina will allow refugees who are legally and continuously staying in its territories, who gain or have citizenship in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to retain their earlier citizenship. The acquisition and retention of citizenship will not be conditioned by giving up or losing another citizenship. Article 4 Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who have dual citizenship (in addition to Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship and citizenship of the SR of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia) and who have a permanent residence on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory have the same rights and obligations as other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every person who has citizenship in both states is obliged to fulfil a military obligation in a state (or entity) in which he has permanent residence. Article 5 More detailed provisions on dual citizenship will be regulated by a special bilateral agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the SR of Yugoslavia and between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia. There, it is a comprehensive proposal for a decision that, we have also consulted MPs from Republika Srpska, fully creating conditions for us to vote on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1510	Here you go. Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1511	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here I would like to stress the position of the Social Democratic Party that there are a lot of initiatives to be built on the Law on Citizenship, but it is a prerequisite for us to accept the existing Law on Citizenship, and at this point I believe that the initiative submitted by fellow Dokić is legitimate and that it would certainly be good to be included as part of the 6th agenda for the next session to pass all the procedure that we have all advocated, therefore, both adequate and commission, working bodies and, in the form of a proposal on it, at the next session, the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also have some suggestions on the further construction of this very important strategic law, but at this point it is crucial that we adopt this law as the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina so that this law, and the status of declared, can go to a law on which we can build further solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1512	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1513	Dear Members of Parliament and guests, I would just like to say briefly that today is essential for the adoption of the decision before, because we are not going to be in a position to ask someone to give basic human rights to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1514	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1515	Mr President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, given that there are members of the Council of Ministers present here, co-chair of the Council, then the Foreign Minister, I think it would be useful to hear from them whether it is possible to make such a decision that regulates the issue of dual citizenship, before establishing full diplomatic relations between the countries involved by such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1516	The Council of Ministers' consultations are ongoing. Since the text of the motion for a decision read by Mr Dokić has so far not been known to the MPs or the Council of Ministers, we will take a 10-minute break to get the Council of Ministers to look at the legal bases and then address us afterwards. Ten minutes break. Pause [[After break]] I ask the MPs to take their seats to continue our work. I'd like to ask that if there are any of these breaks that we're around so we don't get together for a long time, because there's probably going to be a break and we can save some time. Meanwhile, members of the Council of Ministers have held consultations and I call on someone outside the Council of Ministers. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1518	We didn't have a quorum here at the Council of Ministers today, we will certainly consider this decision of course. But I, as a member of Parliament, now not as co-chair, propose that the law be adopted and that we continue to act in accordance with the law. Therefore, we should implement the procedure in accordance with the law, especially in accordance with Article 39. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1519	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1520	Dear gentlemen, we wanted to make a constructive contribution to the adoption of the law. Obviously, there are reasons, to me unknown, which is why you don't want to do it. The decision, as you have heard, is a prerequisite, and it is in line with both the Constitution and this law that we, from Republika Srpska, vote on the law. If the decision is not voted on, we cannot vote positively, we cannot vote on the law, if that does not happen, neither, I have a compromise proposal. Let's postpone the law for the next session, in the meantime get the opinion of the Council of Ministers, and finally, gentlemen, there is something in the preamble of this law that I find very important. It's said to be in accordance with aneks 10's authority. Peace Agreement and Article 11. The Bosnian document, the High Representative, passed this Law, and I am particularly emphasising it until the Parliamentary Assembly adopts this Law in the necessary form, without any additional amendments and conditions. There's a illogicality here, gentlemen, in the form necessary, then I guess it's said in this form, I have nothing to say, this is out of my mind. This is where the rights of MPs are limited to propose. I ask the representative of the Office of the High Representative, respecting the office and the institution of the High Representative to explain where it says it in the Bonjourn document and where it says in Annex 10 that the High Representative has the right to do what he did. Even though we know there's no one in Annex 10 or in the Bonaan document in Article 11, we wanted to not obstruct and repeat this, we wanted to make our contribution to doing this. I'm just telling you that we're not even blind, and here, we prove that we're not even dumb, and that we know what it is and that we're good at reading, so that something bad happens, I suggest that it be postponed for the next session and the decisions and the law and that we get the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that we agree with the Office of the High Representative, and that at the next session, which will be very soon, it seems to me that we're going to have a solemn session of 19 this month, one of the points and after the ceremony could be this point, and that would solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1521	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can answer for the discussion? The most constructive approach would be to finally vote in favour of the laws that the High Representative, after long work, agreed upon, respected and declared by the Constitution. It would probably be the most constructive approach, without conditioning and without any previous demands. A constructive proposal is also to seek to find certain solutions if these solutions are acceptable to this House of Representatives. We have a situation that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not have a single position, i.e. it is not in full composition, we need to vote on the law and we have a proposal to leave the law for the next session, and in order to, meanwhile, obtain the necessary consultations from the Council of Ministers of BiH. 8 I call again on the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers to explain whether it is worth leaving for the next session and whether there is a need for the BiH Council of Ministers to declare this. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1522	Mr. Vestendorp has proposed this law, that is, his office, precisely because we do not have a single position in the BiH Council of Ministers. We discussed this in the old composition and I think, here, as far as I could see here now in this brief debate that we had, we still don't have a single view of it. I doubt that the Council of Ministers of BiH will now have a unique position in this constitution and the attitude of political forces. Therefore, as a member of Parliament, I have proposed that this law be adopted and I think that the text is quite clear, and the possibility, or inability to amend the amendments, is also quite clear. It would be best if we passed this law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1523	Thank you. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1524	I don't know if you understand me correctly. My proposal was, and a proposal by the parliamentary group on behalf of which I made this proposal, to take a decision on the law and vote in the package. If it is not possible to do so today, we do not insist, we suggest that it be delayed for the next time. Here's why. We law, in this form that we have, it's worth a year and a half, so nothing will essentially change if we postpone it for the next time to study this decision. But I'd just like to say a few more sentences. Accepting this decision is a minimum of goodwill to regulate some issues that are of very important interest to BiH, which is, among other things, the issue of BiH's relationship with the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ. I won't take your time, but I'll say one thing in one sentence. The long-term issue of democratic, stable BiH is the issue of its good co-operation with the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ. As long as the Hrvat and Srbin in BiH are denied in this regard, they will feel, I will not say wrongly, but there will be something in the subconscious that was even stronger than consciousness in the past, and when some difficult, unfortunate historical moment comes, then that subconscious overpowers. Let us eradicate this historic subconscious, open up this democratic process, hope that we all care about democratic BiH, and one of the conditions of democratic BiH are its sincere ties with the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ. If this is a minimum test of goodwill, says the fact that in Article 5, I would ask you to read it well by the next time, it says: more detailed provisions on dual citizenship will be regulated by a special bilateral agreement between BiH and the SRJ and between BiH and Croatia. This decision does not prejudge anything, it only opens a process that will follow. We want this process to be open. This is an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1525	Thank you. Is there anyone else to discuss? 9 Personally, I think there is absolutely no reason why the law, as it has been laid down today, should not be put to a vote and vote on it. I also state the coalition's position for a complete and democratic BiH. Since we have a proposal here to postpone this, I propose that we take this step, so that we try, too, to further examine the issue, that the Council of Ministers should study it, not subject to any decisions following the agreement, to put the citizenship law in the next session, and to examine this issue in the meantime. I'm putting this motion to a vote, and please, who's in favour of doing so? Twenty-two for it. By entities. From the RS space, who's in? Thirteen, 22-13, that's nine. We don't have most of the Federation of BiH space. It takes ten from the Federation of BiH. 22 voted yes. We'll put the procedure through. From the RS space is 13. Please, who's in favor of the Federation of BiH? 11 o'clock, good. By entities, the proposal has received the necessary majority. Please, who's against the proposal? Who's restrained? Eight abstentions. We have adopted the conclusion that the Law on Citizenship is being put in place at the next session and that the proposed decision is being considered in the meantime. Next item of the agenda: 4. Consideration and adoption of the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina I am opening the debate. As far as I can tell, there are no reports. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1526	From the MPs from the RS, I'm the only one who was in that old meeting, so I know a little bit more about how things were going that were already on the agenda and we've been discussing them for a long time. Of course, we all probably have some objection to all the laws we had, but the adoption of the law is, among other things, a matter of compromise because there are more of us, we look from different angles, and when everything is added together, then,... we had today before this meeting, meetings and consultations on these issues, for the MP group of Coalition Syllabic is an acceptable law, texting part of the law, but we have an objection to the appearance of the flag. I would like to remind you that at the flag-looking debate, we had three variants and that it seems to me that we all agreed to choose a variant of the flag that has no one's symbols, there are no symbols of any of the three constituent peoples of BiH. I would remind you that in that debate, when the flag proposal at the Assembly, Mr. Šumaher, the High Representative here, among other things, said the next sentence – the Office of the High Representative gave all three variants to the Institute of Flags at the UN, I think that was the case and that the answer was that the other variant had all the elements of the flags in the world. Let me just remind you, that other variant looks like this, you probably know that I'm not explaining, she, apart from having the elements of the flags by world standards, has a lot of bh in her. The symbols, there are two entities, three peoples intertwined as they are, so there's really a lot of symbols in it. I'm not burdened with any ideologies, my 10 discussions last time, when we discussed the flag, it was precisely in that sense that I condemned some of the Serbian MPs who linked it to some ideologies, I mean the variant that was declared temporary, that's this variant, you know. But after I've come back to Banja Luka, from many I won't tell you a lesson, but believing there's an ideological one here, I wouldn't be opening up a debate about it right now, I know there's a certain little difficulty, we have a flag worth a year, but a year is nothing, I think the goal is to get a flag that will be accepted by all, and not imposed on one majority. I appeal to MPs to think carefully about it, it seems to me that this variant, another variant, would be a flag that would be accepted by all, which has standards, which has a deep symbol of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's a suggestion. We will, right away, vote again for this flag, as we voted last time. However, part of it was restrained, and part of it voted for this flag. We will vote for this flag again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1527	Thank you. Is there anyone else here for the discussion? I, as far as I can tell, have not been reported for discussion. We have a proposal for an amendment nature - therefore, that the appearance of the flag be changed and I will, of course, put the motion to vote in order to satisfy the rights of MPs and the right to submit amendments. Please, who's for that - first, the question of the amendment, and then the law entirely. If the amendment is accepted, the law is amended, and such a law is adopted. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1528	A short time ago, the respected Banjac, vice-president - the chairman - reiterated that we could simply pass the declared laws in this form or not adopt them. And after we adopt, we can make amendments. This was just read when it came to the Law on Citizenship. Therefore, I see no reason to open the process of the amendments now. There is an existing law in the debate, and I would really like to remind you that this flag, as a feature of Bosnia and Herzegovina, has already been present for more than a year, that all structures, all members of the BiH Presidency, when they went to Brussels, to Washington, where they all went, have been heartily favouring the inclusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration and that one of the essential preconditions is just the adoption of basic features. I would argue that the first vote on the declared law, which is currently in force, so that after the vote, eventually, on the written submission of amendments, because I don't know what the amendment is, especially I wouldn't accept it in an explanation that was supposed to be some lines, that these are nations, so entities, I wouldn't accept it for both Serbian and Croatian, and for the Bosniak people, that some of the lines are symbols of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1529	Mr. Banjac. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1530	I'm glad the honourable messenger listened to what I was saying, but there's a noise in the canal. We didn't get along. It's true, he heard well that I read what I read. But, gentlemen, it doesn't say what it says here anymore. It says a little different here. It's not my fault it's like that, but it is. I'll read it to you now. It says the same thing here, but it's not listed, it just says annex 10. It is not stated at the end, what I have read to the end, does not say - until the Parliamentary Assembly adopts this Law in the proper form. Suitable, doesn't mean this one. We can talk about it in a language way. Therefore, it is quite clear that we can, there is no more “identical”, there is no more, and there is. It's not my fault that he did, but that's what it says. I'm asking an esteemed colleague to accept that he doesn't write the same thing here and there, which means that Mr. Chairman is right, that we can vote not only on this, but on other amendments, if they appear. That'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1531	poslanik Dokić. Do you have an amendment formulated in a way that MPs know what this is about? Can you, in particular, explain what your amendment is? Mr. Dokić, I'd like to ask you to formulate the amendment here, and we'll continue working with the other points, so we'll get back to the question. [[Dokic speaking from place]] Since it's a similar issue around the coat of arms, we're not going to the next point, we're going to the one behind. So when Mr. Dokić arrives with a written amendment, we will return to this point – both. In the meantime, we'll consider item 5 of agenda 5. Consideration and adoption of the Telecommunications Act You have the text of the Law. You know the fate of this law. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone have a discussion? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Mr. Mirković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1532	Gentlemen Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I will present the Commission's position on transport and communication, which was held on 9.2.1999. In this session, the Commission assessed that the Telecommunications Act is necessary for Bosnia and Herzegovina and is therefore acceptable in the integrated text. The Commission is asking the Proposer of the Law to particularly explain Article 8 at a meeting of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Laws with special emphasis on the establishment of a Advisory Commission on Radio Frequency, the introduction of amendments referred to the proposal for a Law, the amendment of MP Špirić Nikola to Article 6 under g) and Article 8. The Commission does not have an opinion on the amendments and guides them to be considered under the ordinary procedure in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Rules of Procedure. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1533	The Commission on Transport and Communications has about three requirements and one assessment. One assessment is that the law is also necessary in the integrated text. It is the legislator of the Law to explain Article 8 at a meeting of the House of Representatives. Does the Council of Ministers have a position? Therefore, the reasoning of Article 8 is real. Laws with special emphasis on how to establish a Advisory Committee for Radio Frequencys. Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1534	Ladies and gentlemen, let me just try the amendments, i.e. Amendments of MP Nikola Špirić. Amendment I was to delete point (g) in Article 6, paragraph 1, which states: "such and other functions as have been assigned to him under this Act and by the Council of Ministers" - it must remain, because this commission is regulatory, it is a commission of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted, as the commission needs to implement other instructions it receives from the BiH Council of Ministers. Amendment II concerning the erasure of Article 8, where it says that the tasks of the Advisory Commission for Radio Telecommunications may be carried out through the Regulatory Agency for Telecommunications, in Article 8 of this Act. They're being done. That is exactly what the article 6 says. She's doing it. But this is a consultation group for radio frequencies that gathers all users of radio frequencies. So both entity and military and stabilisation forces, electricity, railways, etc. So she's a consulting group for the needs of the Regulatory Agency so she can issue those radio frequencies. In this context, Article 8 should remain in the text of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1535	You heard the explanation. Does Mr. Špirić stay with his amendments after this explanation or, perhaps, withdraw the amendments? Do you accept? So you're withdrawing the amendments. Thank you. So, we have a bill. The amendments that have arrived have been withdrawn and I am putting the bill to the vote. Please, who's in favor of adopting the Telecommunications Bill? 29. Given the number of people present, the entity majority is contained in this number, so we don't have to count by entities. I'm just calling to plead they had someone restrained? Thank you. Who's against it? 29 and 1, 30. Someone didn't vote. So, with the number of votes we said, the proposal for a telecommunications law was passed. Congratulations to the MPs and we move on to the next item of the agenda. 13 6. The draft law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking is the law submitted by the Lagumdžija MP. The deadline for the decision has expired and we have determined that it is necessary to declare the BiH Council of Ministers. I call upon the committee of the House of Representatives to explain, if any, what we have concluded. Mr. Kadić, President of the Committee for Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1536	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission has today considered a whole series of laws, it is five laws passed by MPs or groups of MPs, in line with the adopted conclusion at this House on procedures in such cases. Of course, during the debate on these laws, we have found many shortcomings which here, in this parliamentary work, have not yet been resolved, such as the permanent Rules of Procedure, then a quality or precise procedure for proposing the law. But in this case, acting on the adopted conclusion, we have informed the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers has its position on this, which is likely to announce. As far as this Law is concerned, the Constitutional Commission did not have a single view on whether there is a constitutional basis or not there is a constitutional basis for resolving under this Law. I'll say there's been three opinions. It may be correct to say - from the members of the Commission who were present, four members of the Commission consider that there is no constitutional obligation, but it is not the opposite of the Constitution - two members explicitly claim that there is no constitutional basis for this Act, and one member considers that there is no constitutional basis, but suggests that entities agree on regulation of this issue. To conclude, the Constitutional Commission could not adopt a position on the existence or absence of a constitutional basis for deciding on this Law and we leave the House of Representatives to plead. Thank you. PRESIDENT: As far as I can see, the motionary is not present. Anybody on behalf of the promoter wants to. Ms. Muminagić, an authorised promoter, the SDP MPs' club. So, on behalf of the MPs' club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1537	The chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as it says in the agenda, this is a proposal from the SDP MPs' Club. Therefore, I am not an authorised promoter, but an MP from the SDP, and I speak on that behalf. I want to make brief remarks about this law. Faced with the growing phenomena of terrorism and crime and the unsatisfactory results of their detection and repression, we have assessed in the Social Democratic Party the need for parliamentary debate, both in the entity parliaments and in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, to raise issues of more responsible dealing with this evil and more decisive action by the authorities in preventing them. The issue is how to fight terrorism and crime with international and 14 inter-entity characteristics. Under the constitution, Bosnia and Herzegovina continues the continuity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina in internationally recognised borders. However, we know that these limits are unprotected. Under the Constitution, Bosnia and Herzegovina is composed of two entities, but no adequate co-operation and control has been established between entities, and especially by these problems, so the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not function throughout its territory. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Constitution in Article 3rd, point 1st under g) -- jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, said it was an implementation of international and inter-entity criminal law regulations, including relations with Interpol. Therefore, we appreciate that at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as states with international legal subjectivity, institutional conditions need to be created for the organisation and control of international and inter-entity terrorism, crime and illicit drug trafficking. We think that this would require joint political forces that would work on the territory of all Bosnia and Herzegovina, by composition they would be multiethnic and composed of both entities. In addition to co-operation with Interpol, which is solely in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they would co-operate with the competent authorities in entities. We appeal to fellow MPs to bear in mind the basic reasons and need to form a common police force and we are ready to accept any suggestions that go towards the legal improvement of the solutions given in the draft law. So, we stress the need to form a common police force, believing that this is not contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So far, we have not had the views of the BiH Council of Ministers on this initiative. Now, before I go out, I heard that the BiH Council of Ministers has an attitude from Mr. Kadić, so here, I'd like to hear it. We think that it is the political will of this House and, if it will, this House can support such a legal solution that, of course, the form of the proposal still needs to be worked on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1538	I thank Mrs. Muminagić. It is my duty to repeat this correction once again. It is therefore an initiative of the SDP Members' Club, not an individual parliamentary initiative. On behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, is there anyone to plead under this Law - on the proposal of this law - on the draft of this law? Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1539	The BiH Council of Ministers has no unique position on the issue. However, in any case, if it comes to initiatives, the initiative is good, but there have been before. So, since 1996, 1997, in 1998, in this regard, we have written about the elaborates, I am now speaking as an MP and president of the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina, the memorandum, which resulted in, among other things, that the international community is now forming a Commission on Border Affairs and, as far as I know, is already close to one text on the law that would cover this total matter - not in this way, but, in any case, I agree, Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to secure borders and police and customs protection, etc. So, in the BiH Council of Ministers, we talked about it ad hoc, we never had a unique position -- true, in the old composition, but I think it's a good initiative when it comes to the borders and the protection of the borders of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, I say, these initiatives have been before, starting in 1996, when my party came to the border labs, the border memorandum, the request for multiethnic composition, the protection of any kind at these borders, any crime, any 15 border police, customs, etc. So that was a basic requirement, and in the BiH Council of Ministers, as far as we're concerned, we'll probably get some texts or proposals from the OHR soon. As far as I know, that's what this is about. We don't have a share in forming that text for now. But anyway, border protection, yeah. I am prepared as a member of Parliament and, of course, as chairman, if we have a united position, to contribute to this resolution of this very important issue that was first raised, as a first and priority issue, given our economic situation, of course, the political situation, and was launched at the first press conference of the Party for BiH, on 14 April 1996. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1540	Thank you. Mr. Deretić answered, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1541	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, guests, On the occasion of this agenda point, I was one of those in the commission who were specifically against this bill of law as it was on the commission for the simple reason that the Constitution of BiH was decidently regulating this matter, therefore, in Article 3(3), point 1a) where it literally reads: "All government functions and powers which are not explicitly given to the institutions of BiH belong to entities". It is explicitly given, therefore, that the explanation of the lady, which is called for in point 1 of the indent under g) by implementing international and inter-entity criminal - legal regulations, including relations with Interpol, cannot be absolutely considered to cover one such legal rule, for the simple reason that entities have formed interior ministries, there is also a Ministry of Justice and the RS and the Federation of BiH, therefore, these ministries cooperate with each other, are in office, and the appeal to this provision absolutely has no basis. Also, I can't help but be an apostropheist here, which is that the Madrid Conference is also envisaged, that is to say, seeking to build a law on the border police that the previous speaker here has indicated, and such an attitude also falls back from the Dayton Agreement for the simple reason that all police forces and ministries in charge of these affairs are in the jurisdiction of the entity. When it comes to the particular proposal that we are discussing here today, one logical question arises, who will run these joint police forces? I am re-absorbing a notorious fact, which is that these joint police forces, past the constitution, past the Dayton Agreement, will, in fact, lead to the unification of police forces, go towards a trend which is unfortunately present and that very trend is very current, and when it comes to the provisions of the Dayton Agreement. As an MP for the Representative Council in front of the party from which I was elected, therefore, the Radical Party of the RS, I am absolutely opposed to this proposal for the simple reason that no such proposal is based on any positive regulation, first of all, the Dayton Agreement, secondly, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And finally, what is very important to say, assuming that a decision is ever made to vote on such a proposal, MPs from the RS cannot vote on it, because it must be previously declared by the RS Assembly, by a two-thirds majority, since it is a matter of exclusive entity jurisdiction. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1542	Thank you. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1543	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anyone normal, especially MPs, has anything to do with the choice of all possible legal, non-legal frameworks against terrorism, crime of every type and illegal drug trafficking. But first, I must say that I disagree with the findings of previous speakers that BiH's borders are not protected. Perhaps people mean that they are unprotected at that border where Srbin are, or where the Hrvat are or where they are exclusively Musliman. I think BiH's borders are well protected and I don't think some Ismet who is worse off covering the border there than if we put it into some multiethnic forces that are located in Sarajevo and I don't see that such a way of fighting crime, terrorism and illegal drug trafficking will produce better results than existing organised visions. I think the struggle in BiH will yield results at the moment when a slightly higher level of trust by inter-entity authorities is built. I mean, it's not illogical to talk about all kinds, but I think it's much better that the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of RS, the Ministry of the Interior of the Federation of BiH, conclude an agreement on joint activities in the fight against all these species. You see, in RS, an agreement was signed on the construction of multiethnic and police forces and every time, we, pushing such documents that needlessly centralise certain activities, do what is logical and what results on the ground. This, among other things, although the legal framework also has the character of a political document to which people, given what happened in these areas, give part of the resistance and I don't think it's time to adopt such a legal project, but I think it's time to suggest that the entity ministries cooperate on these relations. The other thing, someone would have to do a really more subtle analysis for MPs whether terrorism, if there is one in the Federation of BiH, and there is, or in Republika Srpska, if there is one, is really the result of not having such a law. Terrorism can only warm up the state. The question arises how many those who are fighting terrorism, who are supposed to fight terrorism in the Federation of BiH, participate in terrorism. This is our problem, to first see who works in the Federation of BiH police forces or who works in RS police forces, whether people are ready, and I think they are ready and I think they are more willing to co-operate in a way that they agree with each other than to be prescribed by central law. In that sense, I think it's worth talking about letting it go, so, you see, even other European countries are working together on these issues. I don't see any reason for entities not to cooperate. I think there's a good shift in inter-entity co-operation when it comes to the ministry, both. I'm sure this law will block their activity, because it will provide political resistance to such a way. And I think we just need to support the ministry both -- from entities and each other to do the job. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1544	Thank you. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1545	My predecessor's only right about one thing. I don't know if it's time to open a discussion like this now. He said all the countries in Europe cooperate, so why not 17 entities. That means the entities are for you state and here is the basic problem. Entities are entities, and they're not states. How many times are we gonna say that? So the collaboration between entities as between states is unconstitutional. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the first article says that it is a state of Serbian people, citizens, etc., both of them, and that it is a state, and that it is a Serbian people, in this way it is unconstitutional, too, if we speak in the Constitution, I don't know whether this discussion should be opened one day, certainly it should be, this is a political body, you said, a political document, this is a political body for me and we'll discuss it one day. But what we can't discuss, it's the Constitution. According to the Constitution, entities are not states. Therefore, the European countries cooperate much closer than the two entities. Let's say Italy and Austria at this point, one example. Entities are not states and will therefore be protected by a multiethnic police border on the BiH state. I don't see them, on the other hand, why it's called centralization and whether it's in the interest of all of us. Centralisation to the extent that it is, for example, in the EU, whose member we will also become in due time. It's not centralization, it's normal border protection. I think there's an unfounded fear, and let's just say that every fear is founded in some way, but that kind of attitude is not justified. It's not about protecting a nation, it's about protecting BiH. Here, let me say it's an open question that we can talk about, but we can't change the Constitution. So the whole point is that you think that the entities of the state and you need to cooperate with each other, as you said, as other European countries do. There's a basic problem, and as long as we don't get along with Dejton, we're gonna have these problems. BiH is a state, and the Entietes are entities and it is beautifully written in the Constitution. On the other hand, I think there is a constitutional basis for this proposed law and in the said, and also in the fact that BiH can, if it is sovereignty and integrity in line with Dejton, assume jurisdiction in the segment. Of course, entities have never met to transfer some responsibilities, which is also inconsistencies with Dayton. So, you see how we have a review of Dayton in one whole series, there are competences that are the powers of the BiH state and entities need to transfer some responsibilities. Entities, as far as I know, are just taking jurisdiction from the state, not returning to entities, but that's another thing. I'm saying all this as a member of Parliament. I support the protection of borders and believe that it is in the interest of every BiH citizen and that there is no centralisation there. We won't be able to enter Europe without the protection of normal borders, if that's what we're up to, because that's what all states have. It's about business, it's about crime, etc., we know what it's all about. I therefore believe that this protection is necessary and that this initiative is based on the Constitution, where it is stated and where it is not mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1546	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1547	I do not really dispute the right of any MP to hear every discussion as he can accept it and receive it. I wasn't talking about elements of entity statehood, I was talking about logical things about co-operation on these matters. The second thing is that Mr. Silajdžić has the need to give lectures on what BiH is and what its entities are and to interpret the Dayton Agreement as he sees it. I don't dispute that right either. But I am glad that the same, political, most of the documents are seen by Mr Silajdžić and the Party of the SDP BiH. 18 Another thing I want to talk about, we can open the debate if Mr. Silajdžić wants what RS is. I believe, when I talk about RS, that Mr Silajdžić may be tortured, but he must participate in this debate. I know that he would like BiH to be what he thinks it is, but then he will have to be as we all see it and as it says in the Dayton Agreement. I know that the RS in BiH is what, among other things, is economic and political, and we are fighting under the Dayton Agreement. And it's not RS going to the pharmacy, so it says "it's prescribed how many milligrams can be taken" Mr. Silajdžić, nor can you prescribe it. We are fighting, among other things, to protect all of those elements of RS and the elements of statehood offered by the Dayton Agreement, regardless of what, probably, bothers you when you mention the element of nationality of the RS, whether the RS has a significant element of statehood, regardless of what upsets you. But I do not dispute the elements of statehood and the state of BiH, and you persistently, talking about it, dispute all those elements of RS statehood and this is the conflict that we will be at here and this structure of MPs and the next, until the thoughts of Mr Silajdžić and those who think alike are wiped out. And that is the future of BiH, its political future. Are we going to get out sooner, make a more radical step on what we all want, depends, among other things, on the willingness to compromise, and I see a compromise in that, first of all, the entity authorities cooperate in all segments and in this segment, so if there are no results, whether there is really no Srbin in Sarajevo that bothers to fight terrorism in Sarajevo, that they are not in the MUP or that there are not as many as we would like. Or, let's say, terrorism driven by some other side, well, let's say even in RS, these are the things to be discussed. You can talk, this is a law that centralizes. Maybe in 15 years we'll be in this situation, I don't argue with that. It's what it's like now. And here we will see, after all, that political mood will be seen at the end of the debate and at the end of the vote. I'm sorry we won't really come to this assembly in a situation that pleases Mr Silajdžić's vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1548	Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1549	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and deputies. Obviously, here are some masters of the political word that all the story, the attempt to solve life problems, shift to the favorite song of unitaryization, i.e. the centralization of statehood, sovereignty, and at the time when this story really works in a frenzy way, when BiH, as a state, should give up part of its sovereignty in favour of the wider integration of Southeast Europe, Europe, etc. I want, on behalf of the SDP, to be clear, we have built this on the basis of Article 3, attitude g) of the BiH Constitution, but we are far more building it on the basis of the life opportunities we live in. There are so many murders, so many crimes, so many drug trafficking started, and it's going on here, between the lines of demarcation, right here in this town. And that's the question we need to solve. We need to deal with the common Serb Bosnia and Herzegovina or inter-entity. And if there's a place where entities need to negotiate new responsibilities, it's this home. In this house, we need to say whether we need it, we stand at the point of view that it is necessary. We had no intention of changing the Dayton Agreement, nor of uniting, but of solving the problems that are happening, and in my view it is very often that the line of demarcation of entities is good logic, that those dealing with crime, which deals with 19 terrorism, use it against all decent citizens and RS and the Federation of BiH and BiH. And that was our motivation and, with all the playing paragraphs, members, etc., no one can dispute, even with this procedure that someone mentioned, that it should now return to the RS Parliament, no one can dispute that the repression of crime, smuggling, terrorism, drug trafficking and the adoption of such forces that will not be Serbian, Croatian or Bosniak in the jurisdiction of this authority, this high home. This high house should express its political will or not. We think we should talk. Whether it is delayed to consult on other bodies, but these units are needed and make sure they are needed, the citizens claim on both sides of the inter-entity line, Mr Špirić. And the fight against crime, smuggling, which is prepared not to declare a fight against it, the SDP will show the sameness with every political party and with every party and with every power and with every individual in this House, so if you, Špirić, are against it, not only in words, then we agree with you, and from this day forward we ask to express political will and to use the possibility as a home, a high home to pass this law that will contribute to the resolution of this difficult problem of citizens. A lot of murders were, that's the point and don't, please, switch it to already, I'd use a maybe ugly term, but it's already a corny story, unitaryization, decentralisation, who's for this, who's for that. We're against fighting, crime, smuggling, drug trafficking, and that was our motivation and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1550	Mrs. Muminagić, then Mr. Deretić. Mr. Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1551	I just wanted to answer my colleague Tokić so he wouldn't be in doubt, I am against crime of every kind, because there was never a crime that could appear to me and there is no normal man who isn't to fight crime and everything else. There is still a story of form and what will give the most effective results in this struggle. The other thing, you can't commit crime and drug trafficking, it's not good psychologically attached to the inter-entity line. You know what the inter-entity line 1993/1994 served for. when all the markets in the so-called so-called market were formed. The gray zones, so the unfortunate people came in there, so they were allowed in, so they made, maybe, 500 grand and now the financial police come in and take two or three to five million marks. It's not good to tie such a phenomenon to an inter-entity line. It's not psychological, it's not good, for the purpose of this law, nor do I suggest. I don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, I have no doubt, I have no doubt. My replica referred to what Mr Silajdžić said, because I didn't mention it. I wasn't talking about the elements of statehood, and he said, since you slowed down Bosnia, and I didn't slow it down, now I'm going to keep to you what your great entities are, so I figured out his story and that's why my replica applied to what Mr. Silajdžić was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1552	Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1553	Given that it has been suggested or highlighted that we reach into the jurisdiction of the entities of this law, I want to say that we have just managed that from the authority of BiH, the competence of BiH institutions, not all the issues which are in the jurisdiction of 20 BiH institutions are institutionally covered and that we do not want to take away what belongs to it under the constitution, but that we do not allow BiH institutions to deal with what is in their exclusive jurisdiction, and because of that we are, whether this is the right solution, I allow us to talk, but that it is not based on the Constitution, I do not think we can accept it because it explicitly states: the competences of the BiH institution are what I have stated under point g), which everyone is called on, and this is the implementation of international and inter-entity criminal regulations, including relations with Interpol. We felt that it wasn't covered enough, that we didn't think to transfer anyone, which we didn't, but that it was time for such an initiative to be launched and we're still standing on the point that the matter of our political will is whether or not we're going to solve it. We are ready to talk, this is why in the draft, to discuss solutions that will be right and acceptable, and that we did not want to reach into jurisdiction, says the text of the Law itself, where it is said finely that, in carrying out the tasks of this Act, the joint police force, we will not question direct co-operation with the competent authorities of the entity, therefore we do not, this and potential, but at the same time we say that entities are obliged to provide these joint police forces that, on both entities' territory, I stress, act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1554	Thank you. Mr. Silajdžić answered the line, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1555	Ladies and gentlemen, here's why I mentioned sovereignty and integrity again, because I heard that Mr. MP said that entities should cooperate, as well as all other states in Europe. If I didn't hear correctly, then, of course, this story of sovereignty and integrity, which I see is unnecessary here, according to some, is falling. However, the MP said, two entities should co-operate as other countries in Europe. The two-state division project has failed, and cannot be inauguration here, without reaction, at least on my part. They are not states, they are entities, and, of course, they need to cooperate, it is their job, and they need to be helped to co-operate, border protection is the business of the BiH state, because they are the state borders of BiH, as they are in any other normal state. And that's why I think we need one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1556	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, the replica, and let Mr. Deretić be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1557	I purposely just wanted to get to the Constitution to tell the honourable lady that here, folksly speaking, someone confused the pots. The point called for by the Law states that the implementation of criminal laws on an international and inter-entity plan, including relations with Interpol, is BiH's jurisdiction. So this is an executive measure. The law that is proposed, gentlemen, is this about establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, which is a preventive measure and, please, don't call for what is not in the Constitution. I know what 21 conduct means and we can ask for an explanation of the concept of implementation and suppression. The rečnik explained it quite nicely. It's about two completely different concepts, and please, therefore, there is no constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1558	We can take that as an amendment to change this suppression.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1559	He can't understand, there's no constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1560	Mr. Deretić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1561	Mr. Chairman, this is a replica of Mr. Tokić's exposure. Unfortunately, there were so many replicas, I waited until I came to order. I'm very sorry that Mr. Tokić is experiencing every step of the way, when I say it's done, there are certain moves leading to uniting certain jobs, I really don't think so, and I don't always think that that's how my stepping up is a dirty, corny story about how Mr. Tokić is experiencing it. Unfortunately, we do experience it daily, that and international mediators point out, that on the scene is unitaryisation of BiH, I have several papers, both from the Federation of BiH, both from the RS and where they potential it. So that's something that's contrary to the Dayton Agreement. It's on one side. On the other hand, absolutely my discussion is not against reducing in the BiH area all negative work that is evident, from theorism, smuggling, drug trafficking, etc. However, we stand at the point that there are institutions that are therefore in charge and that exist, the other thing is that they do not do their jobs ineffectively, that is the problem of every entity, therefore, to solve that part of the deal, because, among other things, the Dayton Agreement provides for it. And on the other hand, I pray one thing, Mr. Silajdžić says "entities should be negotiated, so there is not enough, in that sense, hearing about these things". In that sense, I'm trying to paraphrase what you said. In point 3. The BiH Constitution literally stands, when it comes to co-ordination, among other things, of the BiH presidency, so it can decide to facilitate co-operation between entities in things that do not fall under BiH's jurisdiction, as envisioned by the constitution. If one entity does not object, in a given case, and in that context, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that you put, after all, this proposal, or draft, on the vote and that the MPs make themselves known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1562	I will, just two more debaters when they're done, and that's Mrs. Balta and Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1563	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of reporting, however, I was brought into a dilemma by Mr Silajdžić and Mr Tokić. One said it wasn't inter-entity crime, 22 told the state. Whether it was called inter-entity or state, it doesn't matter, it's a crime. I didn't know there was so much trust with the Ministry of the Interior. I think we've gone deep into the work of certain services that should be properly doing their job. I have no doubt and do not dispute that perhaps some ingenuities should be raised to some higher level or smaller, entities exist, entities should, the entity's interior ministry should work, the three services should work, the BiH peoples are not blind in the eyes, if we talk then we have to go back and forth. Where did the people's eyes see so many new rich men and those old rich men now poor? So when I get to that one in 1992 or 1991, we'll see who was where then and who's where now. So please, when we discuss it, that we don't talk about something that isn't the subject of this point, terrorism, of course, that everyone will fight, of course, that they will fight unauthorized drug trafficking. They recognize it well for the people who have been elected in front of their midst to be ministers of these appropriate services, and I don't want to go any further on whether it's a state or not, we ended up here in this high house a long time ago. So I ask you to give, I would support Mr. Deretić, if you would put this to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1564	Thank you. Mrs. Havel, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1565	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all MPs and I would just like to say specifically about the law. Maybe we neglected what Mr. Kadić said at the beginning. This was discussed by the Constitutional Affairs Commission. We were unanimous that there was no constitutional basis here. Let them correct me, if anyone else wants to interpret what we agreed on. So there's no constitutional basis for adopting this law. However, there is a possibility that this Assembly will pass this law if the entities agree on it. That's a nice thing to say in the jurisdiction. This is where we called for this, and I don't think there's really any need to discuss this, but to put it to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1566	Thank you. Mr. Tokić, replica, and then Mr. Malkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1567	It is really hard to break away from these formulations and already established practices that each quotes each one in its own way. The President of the Commission did not say that the Commission's position was unanimous that there was no constitutional basis. It's a formulation that no one should quote unless there's an adequate background and we've been standing at the point of view, and still as the MPs' club, we're potential, on the fact that we accept that there's no express obligation to form such units. So there is no obligation for these units to be formed, 23, but there is a basis for this Assembly to express its political will and pass this law. And we keep pointing out that political will, rejecting all these stories. I can say that right now, I can responsibly say that in this political area of BiH there is neither centralised nor unitaryisation nor decentralisation nor strengthening the statehood of RS nor strengthening BiH, there are forces that only talk about many things, in fact, retain the status quo. For several years, while I have been talking about these global issues, there are still communist laws, I think some have liked it very much, we have not yet carried out a fundamental transition in the economic system. This country is not moving anywhere. On the return of the refugees and the exiles, we have nowhere to move. There is no application of the Dayton Peace Accords, but that is why it is a very cool story, and it is very attractive for the elections to be, whether Milorad Dodik or Silajdžić, either here Deretić and someone else from the SDA or Silajdžić, again as a quarrel over some principles, which protects RS more, and who more BiH, etc., and life stands. We insist on this law on solving life's problems, and these problems have people on both sides of the entity. And if we want to solve these people's problem, we need common, entity, Serb-Croatian-Bosnian, fight crime, corruption and, apparently, some do not respond. We offered one form without adopting this decision, rejecting it with some arguments of any kind, here, in fact, each member of the House shows an inadequate political will to oppose this. Obviously, the current system doesn't respond, there are so many murders, there's so much smuggling, there's so much crime in this country that, obviously, the existing system hasn't produced results, there are some institutions that will work more effectively. And we wanted to talk about it, but, of course, according to that old folk, very quickly used story to switch it to favorite themes and learned songs that we have been listening to for several years from famous performers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1568	Thank you. Mr. Banjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1569	It's not a replica, it's an incorrect quote. Please, I'm sorry that we use the pay phone here to say a lot of ugly words, and we could say it in a much shorter time in nicer words. The fact, gentlemen, is this: all state functions and powers which are not explicitly given to BiH institutions by this Constitution belong to entities. Four members of the Constitutional Legal Commission say there is no "exactly". So it's not constitutional, my lords. It says nice, so, Mr. Chairman, you've made a good announcement, so it says, read the Constitution, the Constitution has said everything and, please, there's no need to talk like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1570	Mr. Rakić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1571	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I had no intention of discussing this point because every legislative project I consider to be a serious act, which must be based on recorded facts, on an existing organisation dealing with it, as soon as it deals with measures and reasoning 24, what will be improved by this legal act. These kind of legal acts that come with a certain number of parameters to only detach something or transfer it to someone else, or what we once say, we're going to set up a new commission so we don't do the job, there's no guarantee that something will be better in that area. I don't see anything from this legal act. That's why I came out here to say that we're really going to end this debate and get to the bottom of this law and every law. There will also be stories about the Council of Ministers Act. Until someone proves to me the facts and the elaborates that it can't work and that it can function otherwise, what competences are, etc., then we can talk seriously about such a legal project here. I didn't come out here to replicate to anyone, even though it was necessary to replicate some of the debaters. It's simply no right for anyone to tell us that those who are against this law are against fighting, fighting crime control, etc. I don't think anyone's right about that. These are political fossils used in day-to-day pre-election and other needs to highlight certain parties, certain forces offering salvation to this people. Therefore, I ask you, if you will, that we can discuss and return to Mr Silajdžić's discussions, because the newspaper is full of his interviews as Bosnia should be, what entities, etc., which are related to one government, the other, is he ready to meet with Milorad Dodik or Bičakčić, or some of his officials will meet there and threaten them with what they must do, etc. Please, don't let us get into these polemics, we could take a lot of material out of the press and from all kinds of gatherings, etc., I think this assembly should work a little more peacefully, not to put emotions, not to bring politics into all of this, to try what is possible, to shut down and improve the lives of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1572	Thank you. Mr Malkić and it is also the last to be reported for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1573	Dear gentlemen, I would not rejuvenate the fate of this law and I would not question the constitutional foundation of this law, but, eventually, I would influence to shorten the name of this law with the next proposal, that it bears the draft law on the common police forces, and that Article 3, next to this final sentence, reads "the arrest of war criminals against whom the international court in The Hague for crimes in the area of the former Yugoslavia has indicted," so we would accept the provisions of the Dayton Agreement and engage in its realization, and war criminals would get what they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1574	Thank you. So we have two interventions on the draft proposal, so two amendments that we'll come forward about sooner. It's a draft debate. Please, this draft amendment initiative is now being taken as an integral part of the draft and moving forward in the process, but we must also declare this initiative. Does the House of Representatives accept this initiative that this initiative is going into process? 25 So, please, we approach the measure of political will, which does not necessarily mean a commitment to fight crime. We have a proposal by Mr Malkić to change the name and that the law is called the Law on Joint Police Forces and the second proposal is to add this position to Article 3, to put in charge and "the arrest of war criminals indicted by the tribunal in The Hague". Who's to...? Here you go, Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1575	Unfortunately, we still don't have a sufficiently elaborate process of discussing the draft and the bill, so we probably have a little misunderstanding, I won't say misunderstanding, we can agree. As for this initiative on the addition of Article 3, the SDP has given another law in the procedure, which passed at the House of Representatives and expects a debate at the House of Peoples, and this is about the conduct of the authorities to the Hague tribunal's obligations, and this is covered by this issue that has been raised, so, if we should plead, please leave it to us to formulate the proposal if we come to the situation to formulate the proposal. I'm not going to reject the initiative here, but I wouldn't accept it, and I wouldn't want it to be written in two laws the same way, so let's look at it until we formulate the proposal, if this law comes into play, and this first thing about the establishment or the joint police force, we can easily resolve it when it's in the form of a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1576	Okay, if we don't have a question of permanent rules of procedure and drafts and proposals, we'll do what's normal. Mr Malkić's proposal will be taken into account when drawing up the proposal, and I will put the draft to the vote, if the draft is accepted, following further procedures, if not, then the situation is well known. Therefore, by your own free political will, who is in favour of adopting a draft law on the establishment of a common police force in countering terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, so who is for the proposed draft? 15 is for, that means there's no majority present, there's 33 present. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority of the MPs present, we do not have to vote on entities, but we will hold the vote until the end. Who's being held back? (4) Who's against it? (10) With the said voting results, the draft was not accepted. In the meantime, we ended up on the 6th item of the agenda and we return to the 3rd item of the agenda Consideration and adoption of the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina Meanwhile, Mr Dokić formulated in writing amendments and I ask him to come out for a pay phone and read it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1577	According to this proposal, only Article 3 of the existing law would be amended i.e. The interim flag law and the new article 3 would read: “The flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina is bright blue, stretching from the left side of the flag across the centre to the right are three yellow stripes, stretching from the right side of the flag across the centre to the left are two stripes of white. The flag is rectangular, the relationship between the length and the width of the flag is 1:2.” Let me just remind you, this is this variant. It's this form of flag, it's an alternative to the 2nd of the three alternatives that we discussed a year ago in the Assembly. I think it was all clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1578	Thank you. We have the text of the law, we have one amendment I'll Stavić the first statement on the amendment, and then the statement on the law. I call on MPs to declare who is to accept Mr Dokić's amendment, which changes Article 3 and changes the appearance of the flag as well? 11 for, the proposal did not get the required majority, should not be voted on by entities, the proposal was rejected, but we will hold the vote until the end. Who's abstentioned from the vote? Four of them have been held back. Who's against it? Since the amendment has not been accepted, we approach the statement on the proposal for a law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the form it was published in the Served List, i.e. in the form of which the High Representative declared the law. I call therefore on the MPs to declare by raising hands who is in favour of adopting the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Fifteen's in. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority of MPs present. You don't have to count on entities to hold a vote until the end, who's abstention, please? Four abstentions. Who's against it? This is 30 votes or one of the MPs outside the building, it's 30 votes. It is the fourth item of the agenda: Consideration and adoption of the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina Is there any need to take part in the debate on the Law, or the Proposal for a Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina? Here you go, Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1579	Ladies and gentlemen, In front of the Republika Srpska MPs, we are proposing a solution for the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an analoguely recently proposed solution to the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's the only solution that would have the shape of a coat of arms, and then we suggested for the shape of a flag. I don't need to explain what we're proposing about the Bosnia and Herzegovina coat of arms law. If you need a much more detailed explanation, then we can agree not to bother this gathering.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1580	Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1581	I believe when the Law comes to a plea, last time the Rules of Procedure was broken, that moment should be the amendment defined. Now, obviously, knowing the outcomes, we should wait again to formulate the amendment, so that we may be making a statement about the amendment, but this is not an objection to the lady, it was understandable and very clear to me, because suddenly these lines began to like, but rather the chairman, that in principle, at the moment the law came in form of the proposal, then the amendment must be defined and, clearly, in the form of the proposal. There's no such thing as a different amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1582	Since the remark is addressed to me, I accept the objection and do not allow the debate without amendments in the form requested. Here you go, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1583	Here, I'll formulate, no problem, Bosnia and Herzegovina's coat of arms are bright blue, shape of shield, stretching from top to bottom, going three yellow strips at two-thirds length, and from the bottom to the top two blue, or white strips up to two-thirds of the height.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1584	Thank you. Whether we can accept this interpretation of the amendment or need someone to do it by heart without paper. So we have an amendment submitted, which you just heard from a fellow chairman, and I'm putting, or is there anyone else to report for a discussion on this law? As far as I can tell, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Who's in favour of adopting an amendment just read by Mr. Banjac? Eleven votes for, therefore, the proposal did not receive the required majority. There is no further need to hold the vote. We approach the statement of the Law itself in the form in which it was declared and published in the Official Journal. So, I call on MPs to declare by raising their hands, who is in favour of adopting the law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sixteen are for, therefore, Prijeldog has received the necessary majority of the MPs present. Please, all MPs, raise your hands. 31 MPs are present, 16 voted, so most of them voted in favour. Most entities need to be identified.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1585	Who left us if we were 32 at the quorum. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1586	There's two out of the O.R., 31 out there. The 16th vote was for, the proposal got the required majority, we go after the entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the Federation of BiH, there is a required number of votes /13/. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? Three, therefore, do not have the required number of votes from Republika Srpska's space. Who's being held back? Thank you. Four of them have been held back. Who's against it? Eleven is against it. The procedure follows. A proposal that receives the required majority, without the entity majority, requires the procedure that we are going to implement around this law. The next, or 7th item of the agenda is: Proposal for a Council of Ministers Law. It is a proposal submitted by MP Tokić and MP Divković. I think it would be a good idea if the motionaries came forward first, and then we'll consider it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1587	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we have submitted the proposal for a law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure, on 2 December 1998 and based it on the fact that there is no constitutional basis for the Council of Ministers to be established in this way as we now have it in terms of the existence of a co-chair, since the BiH Constitution knows the Co-chair's function. In the procedure of formulating this proposal, within the framework of the Alternative Council of Ministers, we have found dozens of political parties and civil initiatives, so this is a kind of consensus of people from the territory of both Bosnian Herzegovina entities and we have conducted consultations with the Office of the High Representative who has given full support to the reform of the Council of Ministers. In the meantime, things have happened that go in favor of passing a law like this, and I'd only list some. When the Council of Ministers received its mandate here, all those who spoke, and all three leaders of the Council of Ministers, promised to follow the reform of the Council of Ministers and the organisation of the Council of Ministers on other grounds very quickly. Furthermore, it is no secret, and the media informed and wrote electronically, that one of the essential conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the Council of Europe, in which everyone declares themselves and when they go to Brussels, is all members of the BiH presidency, and even here when someone visits us, reform of the Council of Ministers. I don't think anyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina should be explained that this organised Council of Ministers doesn't work, I heard for the first time, here, and remembered that 29 Mr. Rakić asked to create an elaborate about it, to conduct a survey within the circle of people with whom you're hanging out and to ask if the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers is doing this properly. I think it will be the best elaborate to come to the realization yourself that existing organisations do not meet the needs and demands of the citizens and peoples of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with two entities and three equal constituent peoples, so to point out all that stands. At the same time, we, within the framework of the proposal for a new composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, stressed that there should be no increase in the number of people in the BiH Council of Ministers, but functionally different arrangements of the BiH Council of Ministers and we have proposed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Human Rights and Communications and the Ministry of European Affairs be organised. I would particularly highlight the need, given the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has under the upcoming integration processes, and also in the framework of this Stability Pact, to introduce the Ministry of European Affairs, given that such ministries exist in several European countries and are mainly focused on, as the proposal for a law, activities within the country in order to achieve adequate, as quickly as possible to bring the existing legal acts into line with what is the European Union's request, and what is previously set as a request by the Council of Europe. At the same time, the Ministry of Human Rights was introduced as an important ministry within the Council of Ministers of BiH, given the fact that so far the progress in the results of the return of refugees and exiles, the exercise of the right to private property is minimal and, apparently, that there is the Ministry of Civil Affairs which is involved, and it is known that good readers of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina know that the return of refugees and exiles within the central institutions and some favorite expression of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the whole process would go far better within this ministry. I expect, given what has been said as a need so far, support in the debates, when this composition of the BiH Council of Ministers is adopted, when the programme of work of the BiH Council of Ministers has been adopted, and when it has received the support of this assembly, that this existing law will be the basis and that it will be able to be an element of the construction of a new organisation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, as soon as an initiative for the assessment of the constitutionality of the existing structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers and given the results, if we can see it now, in the context of the activity, and in accordance with that programme which has been drawn up, and clearly not realised in these past months. So, I call on the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, this high house to make a positive statement about this law, so that we can finally get an adequate structure appropriate to the requirements and interests of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1588	Thank you. Does anyone in charge of the task force have a need? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. Any of the MPs have suggestions, suggestions? If there is no current President of the Commission, one of the members of the Commission may state his position. 30 Here, will you, Rasime? Is there, perhaps, one of the MPs, until the chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Committee arrives to report for debate? Or the BiH Council of Ministers - is there a need? Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1589	I see this material, first of all, as one of many initiatives towards the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers -- that it has that capacity and that authority as designed by the Dayton Constitution. I think the title is that this bill is quite ambitious, because there are, surely, a lot of things that can look happier and I wouldn't talk about the details of this material. So, I support, as one of the initiatives, which there is, indeed, quite a lot, that the Council of Ministers of BiH is being capacitated as soon as possible, so that it can implement those tasks prescribed by the Dayton Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1590	The Commission's position is just coming up. Mr. Kadić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1591	The Commission's position on the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH - Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. The way things are now, they're going to enjoy double-pasals for some. So, when it comes to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Commission has found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the fact that a technical error in the law, which I hope Mr Tokić has already explained, is in Article 16, and which should be brought into line with the electoral text. Otherwise, today, I'm probably going to have to turn you on with my appearance behind this pay phone a little bit more, since we haven't had time to prepare a written report from the Constitutional Commission, and I hope it doesn't happen again, and from now on, we're going to be communicating with paper, not this way for a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1592	We're more excited by the lack. Mr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1593	Here was the finding that the BiH Council of Ministers is not functioning. We disagree on the BiH Council of Ministers. We have submitted a report to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, which you have had, which shows that the Council of Ministers functions under very difficult circumstances. So, the moment this Parliament agrees, when the clubs start talking to each other, not just to speak to the BiH Council of Ministers, when we agree parliamentaryly, when Parliament makes a decision to reconstruct the Council of Ministers, then it will be a confirmation of what I, at least, have been asking for for a long time. The fact is, however, that we have a plan to work on reconstruction, but there is no political will for it. So the BiH Council of Ministers cannot function better than parliament. That's a fact. So when Parliament agrees on the construction, we will be reconstructed immediately the next day in that sense. There's no political will for it. So it's not about the Council of Ministers, it's not about reconstructing itself and deconstructing itself, it's about political will, as you can see here as expressed in Parliament, it's about the Council of Ministers. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, what MP Branković said, this is a good initiative, of course, to track down the initiatives we have so far, on the issue of the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers - the enlargement of the BiH Council of Ministers, so that we can respond to the tasks. As it is now, of course, not adequate. But in this situation, we are also trying to do what is best and you have a report in front of you that you have already, in fact, assessed and it is seen from this that the Council of Ministers of BiH is working, and it has also worked when Parliament has not been sitting. Therefore, I support this initiative and I hope that, if not today, and that other time, it will pass. We need the BiH Council of Ministers to respond to the tasks ahead of the Council of Ministers. As it is now, it is very difficult to go, but it is not to the Council of Ministers of BiH, but to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1594	Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1595	: Gentlemen, I would like to ask the Proposer to answer a few questions. First, are the jobs to be done by the new ministries working in the current composition of the BiH Council of Ministers? From Mr Silajdžić, we have heard a very good finding that the BiH Council of Ministers is working, is in difficult conditions, but there are results, as they say. Secondly, how many new organizations require new jobs and how much does this country cost? They're just some. Are there new jobs that aren't done right now, and they're supposed to be done? And, let me put it short, before any discussion about this should be made as an expert basis for the bill. What it says there isn't that. We can't argue because we don't have enough information. Furthermore, you know that the existing organization also operates in very scarce material conditions. When we adopt the budget, I want to focus your attention on the fact that we spoke -- don't increase from the previous year, because it doesn't -- it doesn't work, a lot of people are hungry, a lot of people aren't working, a lot of companies are closed and every day more and more of those who stay on the street and without existence. We, gentlemen, would like to extend the administration under such conditions. I don't think it's wise to make such decisions at this time. If there were better times and other conditions, it might be quite different to argue. To that end, no one can say here that there is no constitutional basis, that it is proposed and no one can dispute that. That's what the Constitutional Commission said in the end. Secondly, you know that there is an initiative in front of the Constitutional Court and for existing organisations to be good. Let's take it one step at a time. Let's see if the existing organisation is in line with the existing constitutional solution and the existing legal solution to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. So I wouldn't be in a hurry, and that's why I don't think there's any basis for this point to go to any statement, I would simply suggest that this point be taken off the agenda and left for a better time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1596	Mr. Divković. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1597	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is not any initiative, this is no declaration, this is a bill that is in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure all-regularly addressed to the parliamentary procedure. This is neither the systematization of jobs, nor the rule on it in the Council of Ministers, etc., but the bill of law. Since the proposal for a law that is perfectly legal, in a perfectly normal way, is not necessary under the Rules of Procedure to be elaborated, especially a real elaborate, and on the basis of the elaborates, the Law proposes. That's not what the Rules of Procedure is asking. So it would be logical, in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure, that everyone here who discusses the proposal puts an amendment, does not invest, etc. and make it known about him. It is the procedure and I, the chairman, please, that, in accordance with this procedure and this business, we end you -- this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1598	Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1599	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members and MPs, I would only answer a few questions. Before that I would say - I did not say anywhere that the BiH Council of Ministers is not working. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers is working and working badly. It's our grade and we have a lot of elements to support it. After all, I think it would be very good to do a public opinion examination and it would say the same in all parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in all three constituent nations and in both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities. So, it works for the BiH Council of Ministers and it is our desire to work better, because obviously this does not suit the need, someone calculated from the aspect of the number of laws to be passed to include Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe, so it should be around 70 years of working at the BiH Council of Ministers for us to enter the integration processes of Europe. And that's why we're dissatisfied with the work and we want to help out concretely. Furthermore, I have pointed out and pointed out the need for responsibility for the word put forward, here by this law, when it is collected, and the figures are all moving, unfortunately, because when it comes to the central institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, very small figures, and so there is no need for great knowledge of mathematics, it can be seen that the existing composition of the members of the Council of Ministers from 9 is reduced to 7, but in this Council of Ministers knows who is doing what, unlike the current constitution and organisation of the Council of Ministers, where we actually have one function and on-call controllers, Serbian, Croatian and Bosniaks who sit and follow, as it is, what this will do. It's so-called. The national surveillance that has been promoted with this concept of power, which, of course, goes to the point where I have noticed that the porters are also placed according to the logic of the Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak. There can't be one, there's a porter, so, then, the transporters should be the others. We are against such a concept, it has nothing to do with the Council of Ministers and the obligation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers. And what's last said here, it's the delay of this question, it's an absolute consensus that always exists in this assembly. Let's put it down. I'm warning you that we're delaying life. How long are we gonna put the essential questions off? If you remember when we were making, or when you were making, because we are also against that law, when SDS, SDA and HDZ then passed the current Council of Ministers Act, then they did not say 33 that it was anti-constitutional, for pragmatic reasons Banjac later remembered that it could have been anti-constitutional, but about that, it was said - this is only temporary, how much in two three months it would be very easy here, not here, but at the Earth Museum they explained it and we are against the delay. The country can no longer delay these issues, nor can the issue of resolving the status of citizens be postponed. Some obviously enjoy the delay, and we want, as counterpart Divković said, to make an amendment. It's not in the initiative, it's the law that's over, and you can say that you're against that law, that you're abstention, as you would say about the status quo, for the delay, and you can say that you're not going to do it now, but when we agree. We are against waiting to agree on those who obviously do not want to negotiate, but rather talk about unitaryization, decentralisation, secession and those topics that we have heard during today's discussion. Therefore, I call on the Chairman to, according to the Rules of Procedure, in the form of the proposal, not in the form of a draft, this high house is declared or MPs by amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1600	Mr. Silajdžić - replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1601	This Parliament has declared itself to the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, a report by the BiH Council of Ministers said. Therefore, the assessment that the BiH Council of Ministers is poorly working is new to this Parliament. I repeat, the Council of Ministers cannot resolve all political issues only, as has been the case so far. If anyone has any good suggestions, please choose to talk to your colleagues here in Parliament, prepare a political field, and the BiH Council of Ministers will certainly do its job. Political disagreement cannot be passed on to the BiH Council of Ministers. If the measure of efficiency is to offer new proposals -- here, I say that very quickly I will offer 20 draft laws as an MP -- tomorrow, I have them ready. But I also know that it will not pass, I am trying to talk to my colleagues at the BiH Council of Ministers first, prepare them, try to model them in such a way as to be acceptable. Therefore, if Parliament agrees on something, the BiH Council of Ministers will certainly implement it. The problem cannot be passed on to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers only by political, essential political nature. We worked at the Council of Ministers when Parliament didn't meet at all, we made political decisions the way we could and where we could, he intervened somewhere in the Office of the High Representative, and somewhere we did it ourselves. I didn't want to talk about it. If it insists on it, at least rhetoric works, but it works badly -- I will tell you that this Parliament has told you that the Council of Ministers is doing well because it has accepted the report. And under the circumstances, the Council of Ministers worked well, and it will work much better if you agree here and say: and we want this, then everything will be fine. I just don't know if there are any contacts before coming here for this pay phone, on television, whether there are contacts between you in Parliament, whether you've contacted, say, the koalicija for the Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina, party presidents, other clubs, etc.? Have you prepared a political field among fellow MPs. That'd be good to do. The easiest thing to say is the BiH Council of Ministers should do it. We know very well that reconstruction is necessary. I'm sure we're all convinced of that. The reconstruction needs to be done, of course. Three ministries are insufficient, this structure is not good, it's not adequate. I have already said that and we want a reconstruction, but for that we must have Parliament's consent, first of all, and we have proposed that reconstruction, we have introduced it into our 34 programme. We'll talk about it. We have ready solutions, written. The Office of the High Representative has already intervened in the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, but the political will is missing. The only thing we can hope for is that at a certain point, the Office of the High Representative re-judges, so to speak, and then we go into reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I went out to say that if there is no work in Parliament, outside meetings and sessions that are broadcast via TV, where most of the BiH Council of Ministers is addressed, then the BiH Council of Ministers will not be able to do much more than Parliament wants. Finally, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a report to Parliament, referred to Parliament and no one else under the Dayton Constitution. In other words, Parliament is the head of the Council of Ministers and what Parliament says, the Council of Ministers will do. Here, we see what Parliament says. Therefore, it is not a problem with the Council of Ministers, the problem is in Parliament's political will. Let me be clear. We did as much as we could. Of course, it can always do better, and say that the BiH Council of Ministers is not working well, that means saying that Parliament is doing very well and that the BiH Council of Ministers is not following it. It's the other way around. Parliament is behind the Council of Ministers, according to the number of meetings, instructions given, etc., not to say anything else. Therefore, we know our shortcomings and subjective and objective shortcomings, but we cannot be told that the Council of Ministers has worked poorly. After all, you have a report - look at it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1602	Mr. Tokić - replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1603	I deny the assumption that for the first time, the Council of Ministers was said to be doing badly. We were very skeptical that there would be a reform of the Council of Ministers when you, Mr Silajdžić, explained behind this pay phone that they would come. You can see that all your rhetoric of explaining who's behind whom, who's to whom, one fact can just be elaborated. You have received the support of 18 MPs of this House for their previous work and in those 18 you have included your four votes. Is the problem in Parliament, is the problem with you as an MP or with you as a member of the Council of Ministers, co-chair, not disputed for us. The problem is in the concept that the same strength, the same party, and so do you, personally, both in one place and in another. We are trying to resolve this problem by introducing a new organisation concretely, aware that even a new organisation under this concept is difficult for the government to produce any results as you function. However, instead of empty rhetoric, we have offered a concrete proposal and everything could come to light. Mr. Silajdžić, are you up for this proposal or against the proposal? Because you're not within the time limit, in your promise, when you said as the Ministerial Council that you would offer a new law on the Council of Ministers - you didn't offer that. We offered. Now, you say are you up for this law or against the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1604	Is there anyone else to discuss? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. We will put the proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on a statement. I call on MPs to declare by raising hands who is in favour of adopting the Bill on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was submitted by the two MPs? 35 Who's in? - 8 The proposal didn't get the necessary majority, so we won't get the entities. Who's being held back? If the promoter insists on going all the way. Who's being held back? One more time -7. Who's against it? - 14. Okay, like this, please. Since we only passed one law, for lunch is a sandwich and a break is 25 minutes. Pause [[After break]] We will continue to work, there are currently 25 MPs in the hall, 28 MPs and we will move to the 8th item of the agenda: Proposal for amendments and addition of the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call on the Proposer to explain the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1606	Fellow MPs, you have before you a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents of BiH. This proposal was sent to parliamentary procedure as early as January of the current year, but for all of us known reasons it has not been considered so far. The law is essentially initiated by the demands of citizens from both entities, especially citizens of the so-called citizens. minority peoples in entities and returnees. They asked that Bosnia and Herzegovina and the name of the entities stand on the cover and front of the travel document and the name of those who want to, I stress, therefore, those who want to, that only the name of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina stands on the cover of the travel documents and the front of the country without the entity. It is this proposal, practically by amending Articles 6 and 7 of the existing law and made possible, and you have received this proposal, as I said earlier. I would particularly like to stress that the rights given by the applicable travel documents law are not in question in any part of it. With this amendment, these rights only expand and allow for those BiH citizens who want to get a travel document whose front page is just the name BiH. This proposal, according to us, is also on the trail of stimulating the return and protection of minority rights which has been defined as its priorities by the Madrid Conference whose declaration we have had the opportunity to see. In the function of the promoter, I expect you to understand the need to adopt this amendment and the real meaning of this law and to support, in any case, the proposed amendment. I am responsibly stressing this is not about any unitary or separate concept or I do not know what concept, it is only about consistent respect for human rights and the rights of those who wish to have only the state of BiH on their travel documents. Thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1607	Thank you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Kadić, as chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1608	Thank you. The Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs held a session today with seven of the nine members present and we discussed, among other things, this bill. The Commission concluded by most of the five present members that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law contained in Article I, point 7. The Constitution of BiH and Article IV, point 4a. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Accordingly, there is no need for further explanations. I think reserves on the Constitutional Commission on lack of sufficient constitutional basis can be eliminated by the fact that BiH has already passed a travel document law on BiH and, in this respect, it is very clear that there is a constitutional basis for adoption, something different in this case, the law on travel documents for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1609	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. As far as I can tell, there's no record of a hearing. Mr. Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1610	Dear fellow Members, given the explanation of my fellow Members, it is indeed absolutely clear to me why my colleague Tokić has been working all the time since this session began nonstop attacking remarks on unitaryisation, etc., etc. The proposal that has been again initiated here regarding the Law on travel documents of BiH is currently going towards that goal, indeed, you are well aware that nearly 8 months of discussion, before the Law on Travel document of BiH was adopted, in which, in Article 2, it literally states: the travel document is a public document proving the identity and citizenship of BiH and citizenship of the FBiH or RS. A compromise has been reached, the law was passed on December 15th by the Council of Representatives, by the second Council immediately adopted the day after that. It is now once again proposed to amend this provision, with Mr. Divković explaining, I apologize, I think I have well said the last name, that, among other things, they have sent such a bill to the Representative Council for the Minority People's Initiative in Entities. I'm asking a question, and what about the majority of the people in that same entity. Namely, on the basis of the provision of the Constitution, Article I, point 2. The Dayton Agreement, literally referred to, i.e. point 3., BiH consists of two entities: FBiH and RS, this is a compromise solution either when it was adopted the first time, when BiH passport was adopted, we believe in this context that, indeed, there is no basis to delete the first-hand name of BiH entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1611	Thank you. Mr. Tokić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1612	The Council for the Implementation of the Peace Agreement through the Madrid Declaration guarantees the BiH citizen's right that those who wish to have a passport without the entity's name. The guarantee was neither clear nor logical to me in the first wave until Mr. Deretić's discussion that he would impose that someone must have the name of the entity. So it's about two different things, I'd say, and a civilization step. While our initiative is that people can choose which kind of passports to take, then there is a second relationship in which they insist that a certain solution must be imposed and all, allegedly, in the name of the people and that of the same people who, as far as I remember, according to discussions of former MPs in this high house, who very personal discussions by Mr. Deretić, will never accept the unique license plates, so the Municipality of Pale was the first municipality where unique license plates were implemented, etc., etc. We're just looking for human rights here, and Mr. Deretić doesn't need to worry about what number of people are going to want to wear a passport like that. Because of one man, whether in the Federation of BiH, or in RS, who wants to, this high house should support it. And Mr. Deretić, I can assure you it won't be one, because it will be far, far more. I am familiar with the procedure of protecting the interests of the people through the debate that the people do not care that the size of the letters on the passports of one or another name has so much and so much size. These are delusions. I go across BiH and the RS and the Federation of BiH, it is not so, Mr. Deretić, it is in your head a national interest. I repeat, we do not refer to your right and your need and your desire to wear such a passport, so please do not even touch you and do not allow a solution to be imposed and provides international institutions with the right to, if anyone does not, not to wear such passport. And it really has nothing to do with unitaryization, but with one different approach, with human rights, with one tolerance, with one acceptance, that it can be different than in someone's head is ultimately imagined or projected. It's high time you accepted the possibility of a different one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1613	Thank you. Mr. Deretić, then Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1614	Mr. Tokić, among other things, says and, indeed, he is referring to the Madrid Declaration which, in a certain way, makes it known, among other things, that I will be literal, so I will quote, as the Council sees this question, so the Council believes that BiH citizens should, if they wish, have a passport that confirms their bh. citizenship without imposing, de facto, distinction of entities. That's why the Council requires such a passport to be made, demands. It's absurd to even talk about the Council at least when it comes to this issue. The Peace Implementation Council not only disabling itself to this one, because it was the same advice at the Bosnian Conference that established a form of passport containing, among other things, Republika Srpska's word in cursive, if it is the owner of a RS passport, then FBiH's words in circulation if it owns a BiH Federation passport. And now he's proposing to delete the entity tag, it's only for the first time, so, voluntarily, and later it'll be mandatory. However, this is how the Council violates the Law on Travel documents adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This law has established the form of passport that bears the entity's markings, in addition, I must point out here that, truth be told, the Council is very much in favour of the legality of the work of all institutions in BiH, and here is being called, as we can see, on violation of the law. Therefore, this 38 Representative Council should take care of that. The Council itself for the Implementation of Peace brings and proposes, absolutely disabling itself on several occasions, I will mention here, among other things, you have said well the license plates, which are, indeed, imposed license plates, which have been imposed in addition to the Dayton Agreement, correctly. Perhaps others have accepted you. That's what you're saying, that's what you think, and you're giving yourself the right, and in that, Mr. Tokić, is the biggest problem, which you think is what you say and your party says that all the people in BiH think. And it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1616	Mrs. Rađević, here you go, then Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1617	The replica to Mr. sejfudini Tokić, although my name was not mentioned, was mentioned by an MP, so it applied to me indirectly. I challenge the accuracy of your statement that you know better the mood of the people of RS about what a passport should look like than the MPs that this same people chose.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1618	Thank you. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1619	Mr. Chairman, let's correct the wrong assumption. I didn't say the minority entity initiative, Mr. Deretić. I have decidently told citizens of both entities and especially citizens of the so-called "citizens". minority peoples in entities and that stands. We're not looking for an entity being removed from the passport, from a travel document. We're looking for a download for those who want to take it off, it's an extension of rights. And no one in the RS or the FBiH, who wants the Federation of BiH standing next to BiH, or the RS standing on the cover of passports, and on the right page, will stay with him, but whoever does not want it to stand for him, but wants only BiH to stand for him, to give him the right. And I don't see what the problem is. If the problem is not fear that there will be many, many who will want only BiH to stand, and that is already another topic. Someone here mentioned breaking the law, calling for a violation of the law, I don't know if I got it right, but we're proposing an amendment to the existing law, I don't know how to break the law, we're proposing to you to amend the existing law in a way that we've been talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1620	Thank you. Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1621	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, as an MP, to clearly support the proposal, or the form of an amendment to this law, I would say, perhaps better, to supplement this law, from a very liberal 39 point of view when it comes to travel documents. Namely, there are many people in BiH who do not have a travel document or want it, for various reasons. They have every right at this time, but they have no choice but to choose between two passports in which they have entity names, but they still do not have the right to have a passport or a travel document in which there is no entity name. So all rights are granted except for one of the rights imposed by this law, and none of the previous rights is denied. It seems to me, although I would not be too direct, that this is a bill that could be the point of some political and national groups' new beginnings and new relations in BiH. This is a very democratic right, i.e. a democratic proposal that does not, therefore, deny anyone for anything, but only extends something. The estimates of desavuing already something previously adopted seem to me not to be correct, but what was previously adopted in this case only expands and thus completes the entire mosaic of the possibilities given to the BiH Constitution and which can represent fundamental human rights. That's why I once again want to give my very clear support to this law and say that I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1622	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1623	Gentlemen, to me, it's quite clear and there's no doubt that what you want to do is not in accordance with the Constitution or the Dayton Peace Agreement, and I'm going to try to explain it. I'll state the facts, and I expect anyone who disagrees with my opinion to deny it. The travel document, depending on the three languages anyone calls, is that document that not only confirms the identity of a person abroad but also simply belongs to a state. In the Dayton Peace Agreement, there are no, gentlemen, BiH without two entities nor can there be two entities without BiH, neither without each other is going. There is nothing in the BiH Constitution that belongs to BiH at the same time or in one entity or another. It is indisputable, gentlemen, that anyone who says he recognises BiH and does not recognise entities, he does not, in fact, recognise BiH either. Or vice versa, both are absolute accuracy, which there's no way to disprove. It is also indisputable that a number of state-owned elements are given to entities and that it is explicitly stated in the BiH Constitution. If someone, I'm interpreting it the following way, and I'd like to be explained if that's not true. If I come tomorrow to be a resident of the Federation of BiH and I don't want to say it's the Federation of BiH, what I'm looking for. I, gentlemen, have to respect where I live, I have to respect people, I have to respect the laws and regulations of the entity I live in. In other words, BiH's citizenship is to be made, while at the same time saying: there is no such thing in the entity, although it is said that there is both citizenship and BiH and entities. It's an act of demeaning the taking of a travel document, and you're a resident of a particular entity, it's a demeaning of that entity. And that's the denial of that entity. If we go after such things to do, and we forget that for 50 years in communism, at all costs it was intended to introduce Jugoslavism, deny belonging to anyone and anything, if we thought we were going to make peace that no one could say what nation, religion, which is tradition, culture, we saw that it would fall apart in 24 hours and that no one would normally want to conflict. No Niko in their right mind wanted it. They could only want abnormal people. I would never wish anyone, in no country in the world, to survive the war that has survived BiH. But it's not going to be made by these moves, it's certainly 40 that won't be made by these moves. We need to create an opportunity for everyone in this space to say clearly and clearly who it is and what it is and where it belongs to and who it is and that it has absolutely no consequences. Don't, please, you can do this, I'm not a slow proposal, everyone has the right to propose, let them suggest, will this bring more peace, more unity, more style, or will it divide us, divide us, introduce suspicion or something like that? And what is brought here, let's ask ourselves, gentlemen, what's new, I've been with those who look on the side, I've been to Memphis, I've been to Martin Luter King's museum, I've asked the curator who's the minority people there. He says, we respect extremely much minority rights. And then I asked, gentlemen, what nations are in the minority there, says, blacks, and how many there are, says 70%. Please don't. I'm for us to build here a true democracy based on mutual respect and respect. And, sir, maybe I wouldn't listen to you sometimes, but, you know, I have to, culture tells me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1624	Thank you. Mr. Tokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1625	All the rights that entities, the BiH state, we MPs, have been granted to affirm human rights, the possibility of people choosing and that's why we're here. And in that context, I would ask you for a spirit in which these rights will be affirmed. Here, indeed, a mental set of pasts that insists on being one - minded, must be quite organized as it developed in the darkest times of totalitarian systems. Our initiative does not speak at all about minority nations, we never accept, nor the spirit of the Dayton Agreement accepts that both Srbin and Hrvat, any Srbin, any Hrvat, any Bošnjak as a minority, these are three equal, constitutive peoples of BiH, we do not accept the minority. And we're not talking about minority rights, and as far as moods are concerned, I accept that there's a different mood in this BiH, and I'm talking about that's not just the moods. Those who replicated me, claiming that 100% know how the people think, right to the point, should finally learn a lesson. Here's the latest, one leader who knew that the people from first to last didn't want that peace deal, then found out that the people wanted the peace agreement from first to last. It's not politics for the benefit of any people. I have acted as a politician all the time in BiH, with heavy denials, who wants to represent both the Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak people. And I mean to you, it's not politics for the benefit of the Serb people, as it wasn't for this one I'm not going to mention my name to. It's a waste of handlifting, turn to the future, stop threatening the past, there's no reason. I am a man who does not travel to RS to boast, but because he wants to help everyone and what I really consider myself to be a man who represents and tries to articulate bh. interests. Such a rigid attitude after everything that's happened on the threshold of integration, it's astounding. It has nothing to do with the mood of the people. At least not the dominant one. Or there's just as much mood as there was in our neighbouring country that everyone's against the peace agreement and everyone's in favor of a peace agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1626	Mr. Jahić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1627	I'd like to rephrase to Mr. Banjac for a little while. I do not see that it matters at all if Bosanac and Hercegovac, a citizen of this country goes, for example, to Zimbabwe, that it is relevant whether it comes from the Federation of BiH or RS. So I don't see that, on any basis, this thing would have this relevance that you, Mr. Banjac, would attribute to it. Another thing, in general, I don't think it's possible to understand the passport as some kind of legal-administrative reflection and state-run arrangement of BiH. Because on that same basis, it would be quite logical that, for example, on a passport, the new direct passport reads Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Tuzla Canton, the Tuzla municipality, quite the same logic of things could be understood. However, I really suggest that this debate that does not lead to anything is quite clear here, as an MP and as a member of the Coalition for the CD BiH Club, I do not think there are any constitutional, material, or content, or any basis for contesting this bill, and therefore I think that all arguments in this debate here are exhausted to this extent that the most constructive would be, which the chairman could do here, to put this proposal to the vote and that we are not really burdened with the debate on this issue anymore. I think the point is clear, that we have other points to go to as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1628	Thank you. Mr. Deretić answered the line. He's pulling. Mr. Branković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1629	I wanted to say that we have one very important and concrete reason why we should think about these new variants of our passports, we did not mention that we now have a new fact in BiH, and this is an arbitration decision for Brcko and I wonder what kind of passports the citizens of Brcko will be wearing in relation to the arbitration decision on the arrangement of Brcko in BiH, we know what an arbitration decision is. The other thing, someone mentioned that a passport determines identity, I personally am not satisfied with how the passport that I have now identifies me. Namely, I was born in a city that now happens to belong to RS, and I live in a city belonging to the Federation of BiH, and my wife was born in a city that is in the Federation of BiH and falls out now, according to the people that you are from where your wife is from, I want to be from BiH. So I absolutely support these initiatives for new passports.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1630	Thank you. This exhausted the list of registered debaters. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I call on MPs to speak out by raising hands on who is in order to adopt the amendment proposal and supplementing the laws on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, who's in? Sixteen MPs are for, of the 29 present. The proposal has received the necessary majority of those present. We have to do a vote on the entities. Please, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 13 from the Federation of BiH is in favour. Please, from Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? 42 The proposal did not receive a third of the MPs' votes needed from Republika Srpska's space, but received most of the MPs present and in these situations the procedure provided for, to consult within three days, and then to vote on the principle prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Who's being held back? There's no one here. Who's against it? Thirteen. Therefore, it refers to the coat of arms Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements of Passports, most of them were present, without the necessary entity third in both entities. We move to the next item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law amending the laws on travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina of the Council of Ministers of BiH, after the OHR's position on the need to extend the validity of the travel documents applicable before the adoption of the Law on travel documents of BiH, made up a proposal for a law amending the Law on travel documents of BiH relating to the extension of the validity of these passports, and instead of the deadline being 30 June, it is now 30 September. In the text you have received, you have also received an explanation, it is well known to all of us, the existing technical problems faced by citizens due to limited capacity to print passports in time, I think the explanation that you have received in this proposal is quite enough. I call in front of the promoter, the BiH Council of Ministers, if they consider that there is a need to further explain something, I don't think there is. Thank you. I ask the MPs if they need to discuss it. By estimating the importance of extending this deadline, I call upon you to express ourselves by raising your hands who is in favour of adopting this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on travel documents. Who's in? 28. Anybody got any abstentions? One. Thank you. Do you mind? There's no need for entities because this means a third of the vote from both entities. I thank you with the conclusion that we have passed the Law amending the Law on travel documents of BiH. We move to the 10th item of the agenda, that is: 43 The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on their status, conditions and method of use I call for a proposal, is the Council of Ministers of BiH, if there is a need for further explanations. I call on the representatives of the Commission responsible for considering this proposal for a decision to state the Commission's position. There are amendments to the Commission. You have received the text of the amendment signed by the Chairman of the Constitutional Affairs Commission, and that amendment reads as follows: point 4, point 2. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, their status, conditions and method of use, the words “and law” are added behind the word “the Constitution” and the words “the decision of the competent authorities and institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina” are deleted. I call on MPs who want to take part in the debate on this decision. Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1631	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, we have this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land that is transferred to the ownership of the joint institutions of BiH, namely, on the conditions and method of use should be made with special decisions. I will read the decision: This decision establishes a complex of buildings and land that is transferred to the ownership of the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The buildings transferred to the ownership of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions are: - a building with belonging land for regular use built on land marked in land books as K.C. 112. 255. 256. 259. 265. 266. 267. 272. 278. 279. 283. 297. and 401. entered in ZK cartridge number LI/238 as Sarajevo. And after a new diameter marked as K.C. 1061, 1062, 63, 64, 84, 85 and 1086/3 total area of 9.473 m2. Listed in 421 as Sarajevo's seventh. - a building with belonging land for regular use built on land...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1632	I apologize if it is, as it is here. Therefore, there remains the same second position in this article as mentioned here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1633	Yes, it is. Article 3 The right of ownership of buildings and belonging land referred to in point 2 of this decision shall be transferred to the joint institutions of BiH on the date of entry into force of this decision. The law of the previous position will be entered in the land books of the Municipal Court and Sarajevo in the Katastar land of the Sarajevo municipality, and will be deleted previously registered to the SR BiH, the republican authorities of the administration. 44 Article 4. An integral part of this decision is a land-based book extract from ZK cartridge VI number LI/238 Like Sarajevo, a copy of the Katastrian Plan of 25.2.1999 and possession list number 621 as the Sarajevo 7th Centre. Article 5 The decision takes effect on the next day of publication in the Official Journal of BiH and will also be published in the official list of entities. So, we are in favour of preparing a special decision on the terms and conditions of use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1634	Thank you. The proposal is to resolve the issue of ownership by transfer, and to regulate the use and conditions of use by special decisions that would be subsequently prepared and adopted. That's a suggestion. The BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Rečica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1635	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers of BiH is, after a really exhaustive and long work and studio work, I must say, and professionally making this decision, given that on two or three occasions we have worked together, given all the problems we face, we unanimously adopted and adopted such a decision as we delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. At this point, the BiH Council of Ministers remains behind the decision sent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and we would pray that Parliament declares its decision the way we sent it. That's one thing. The other thing I ask MPs to have the vision that the BiH Council of Ministers has debated this decision for a very long time and that they have in mind a large number of problems and about regulating the status of the building, about regulating the accommodation of the institutions and the proper and effective functioning of this building and the institutions that are to be placed here. I think that prolonging this decision will take the next step in making specific management decisions, special accommodation decisions, and I think that we will just unnecessarily extend the resolution of a very important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1636	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1637	I'm not a lawyer, but I'm familiar with the legal practice that this unconsistent, within itself, is not a single decision, that at the same time three, four things are solved by one decision, please, Mr. Lawyers, tell me where you learned it and where the world saw it. We're not against the content of the decision that's here, so someone doesn't say we're 45 against it, but we're simply about going in some order, transferring ownership to institutions, we have us and the Administrative Commission here ours, we have the committees in charge, let them consider this another, the right to make use of, these are two other areas that need to be regulated. We put it all in one decision as if it were really such an important thing, as if we were on the road by now. Right now, we just want so much. I think there's a reason to put one order into work, nothing else. We don't argue, let him deal with it, but not like this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1638	Thank you. We have a situation to propose, i.e. The BiH Council of Ministers remains on its proposal and, on the other hand, we have a proposal to resolve one half of the work today, perhaps, and in another step, that what is stated in the second part of this decision is that it is elaborated and precise, not challenging the content of what is said here itself. Since it's actually two versions of the decision, I'm going to put the decisions to the vote the way they came in. I first put on the vote of the Proposal for a Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of BiH institutions, on their status, conditions and method of use. So, what has been agreed and delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH, I put the proposal first to the vote. Before that, we must declare an amendment by the Commission on constitutional issues concerning this decision by the Council of Ministers of BiH. You got the text of the amendment. I call upon the MPs to make a statement. Who is in favour of adopting the Commission's amendment on constitutional issues to the proposal for a decision as indicated? Who's in? Seventeen is for, there needs most of the MPs present. We have to go after the entities. Who's in favor of the Federation of BiH? Okay. The remaining three MPs are from RS space. The amendment was not supported by a third per entity, therefore the amendment was not accepted. I am putting on the vote of the Decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings, their status, conditions and method of use, and I am asking MPs to state who is in favour of the motion for a decision? Sixteen for it. We have the required majority. We have the required majority per entity. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? - Three MPs. We don't have the necessary majority from Republika Srpska's space. The proposal has not been accepted, but with this majority that is stated requires the parliamentary procedure I have already spoken of, since we have most of the MPs present, as well as the amendment - of course. The second proposal put forward here, as Mrs Perkanović reads, I don't think I need to repeat it - it's just a transfer of ownership, as stated in the proposal for this decision, it's all the same, and it's left to discuss specific decisions on use, conditions and method of use. I'm voting on a motion for a decision like this. I call upon the MPs to plead, who is in favour of this decision? Who's in? - 11. So there is no majority needed, there is no need to hold the vote until the end. Neither this other decision was received by the majority nor by entities. According to 46, there is a procedure for alignment on this first decision. I thank and move on to the next, 11th item of the agenda. So both the amendment and the decision have experienced the fate of most votes. [[speaks from place]] We move to the 11th item of the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to determine the status of the building and land in the Street of Marshal Tito 25, and the conditions and manner of their application, the decision was delivered by the Council of Ministers of BiH. If there is a need for the BiH Council of Ministers to explain further? If there isn't, I'm opening a debate. Do any of the MPs have a need? Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1639	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, another motion for a decision that regulates ownership rights applies, and on this issue, to the ownership of buildings and land on 25 M. Tito Street, which is transferred to the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In order not to read the decision to the end, it's about the same as my predecessors, I'm going to give you an insight -- I think it would be a good idea if we had started to work out something that we could work out here. Since we can't -- the position of the Council of Ministers is such that, normally, it protects what is given. I would ask, however, when we solve these things, to give some minimum and we, to realize that we are doing something in this House that is of general interest to us, not to this person or to that person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1640	Is anyone else picking up? Once again, we have one proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH, which determines the status of the building and, in some ways, the use of that building -- and, the second proposal you just heard -- to make a decision that only regulates ownership rights, and in another step to resolve other issues. I put to the vote, since there are no more registered MPs, a proposal for a Council of Ministers to determine the status of the building and land in 25 M. Tito Street and the conditions and ways to use them. I ask the MPs to state who is in favor of accepting this proposal? - 17 for it. Let's see from Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? So, the proposal received most of the participants, but without a third of the MPs' votes from Republika Srpska's space. The same procedure shall apply. I am putting the vote on the decision presented and explained by Mrs Balta, which is the proposal for a decision that only regulates the rights of ownership and which prescribes the first three, four members of this Council of Ministers' Decision, but does not regulate the conditions and manner of use of the building. So, I convince the content of that decision briefly and put that decision to the vote. 47 Who's in? The proposal did not receive the necessary majority of MPs present. There's no need to vote on entities. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1641	In situations like this, it seems to me that the greatest wisdom is to measure the amount of words that can benefit me. That's why I'm going to try two sentences to define this right now. I have to admit, I didn't get a good look at it before the session, but I'm told it's purely legal, where some decisions should be separated. It went the way it went. I would suggest to the Council of Ministers that they act in this regard for the next congregation. So to make a few decisions that will separate and legally satisfy all those who feel that the legal procedure is not satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1642	There are consultations at the College on these two issues and I hope we can find a solution. Thank you. We move to the 12th item of the agenda: The draft decision on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina was made by the Interim Secretariat. The draft decision was sent to the MPs in good time. On the need to make this decision, I don't think it's necessary to waste words and explain them. The draft decision was also discussed by the committee responsible for the House of Representatives, and I call on the Chair of the Commission to state its position.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1643	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think all MPs have received a report from this Commission on this agenda point, it can be read, I don't think there's any need to expose it. But what I want to say - that the Administrative Commission has, in fact, reached one conclusion that the Administrative Commission of this House, the House of Peoples and this professional service, with the consent of the College of the Assembly, is trying to make a new proposal of the Organization and bring it to this House. That's what the Administrative Commission's position is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1644	Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1645	Now that we are at the end of the debate and we are tired, but since I am not satisfied with the way the report reflected the debate, because not all the questions that we have raised are going to be prepared on the basis of this report, I would like to say a few words about this Decision. 48 1. As far as the approach to preparing the Secretariat's decision is concerned, I don't think it's properly prepared - because, in my opinion, the Secretariat needs to be whole. It says here that the sekretarijat has 43 employees, and on the other hand we have 12 other employees who are in some different status. I think the Secretariat should be shown organized as a whole, so with all 55 employees, if you need 55 employees. Because now it's a fact 55, that we don't say we have 43 if we have 12 more people. I don't think it's acceptable to break the Secretariat to a section related to cabinets with different treatments. The cabinets, in my opinion, can be served properly and according to needs within the Secretariat, and the way someone will start a working relationship, I don't think it's important for this debate. We can always have a permanent working relationship and a working relationship for a certain time. Secondly, the approach to the establishment of the Secretariat, especially the structure of employees, does not satisfy me, because, again, only national representation is stated as the only criterion. I think that, first of all, it is necessary to provide adequate professional training for work, and then to provide adequate national representation. I think the first plan should be this professional training for work that, in this employee structure, is not spoken of. Furthermore, the Secretariat's expert team - which includes the secretary-general, two home secretary and nine executive workers - should be structured so that, in addition to the professional skills to carry out the work, I reiterate my professional capacity to carry out the work and appropriate national representations, which, of course, I have nothing and I think it should be provided. I think it is necessary for the Secretariat's expert team to reflect the results of the elections for this parliamentary House. I note that Parliament - one home and another home, a legislative one, not an executive authority and that the Secretaries expert team is serving Parliament and I believe that it should also reflect the results of the party's election for one and the other parliament. I am referring to the mandate of this part of the Secretariat, the expert team should be tied to the term of office of parliament. It means they share the fate of Parliament's mandate. When it comes to the internal organization, I think it's inadequate for the needs. Let me tell you right now, the description given about the internal organization and the scheme is not in agreement, they are not in line, it's different in the description. I don't think the Home Secretary could be within the cabinet, as the internal organisation is now in place, but home secretaries should have the services of the working committees of parliament, because they are handling the work of these commissions and other professional associates needed for Parliament to function normally. And, finally, I don't think it's the happiest solution to the Secretariat's leadership - the College of the Secretariat. We don't have to paint the structure we have in parliament. This, however, is the expert team serving parliament, they do not have a political function, so that in this way they are conceived and I think that the solutions here should be sought in a clear division of competencies within the expert team and in an appropriate degree of co-ordination in management. This would be something more complete. Of course, only what I stand for, and other members will say whether they are satisfied with the report presented to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1646	Is there anyone else to answer for? I propose that we take into account this Draft and what the Administrative Commission presented during the debate as well as what is said at the session today, and that the Administrative Commission, both at home and at home, together with the Interim Secretariat, prepare a proposal for the next session, if possible. To make that a conclusion as far as this part of the agenda is concerned. 49 Who's in? The conclusion was unanimously adopted. I thank you for moving to the 13th Point of the Agenda Reply to the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the Council of Ministers Act, which has been launched by the Vice-President of the House of Representatives, Mr Banjac, mi have received a request from the Constitutional Court, chairing both at home, to submit to the Constitutional Court a reply to the requests in respect of the acts of your jurisdiction and other information and notices, which, in your opinion, may be of importance for the conduct of proceedings with this Court. Of course, this issue has also been discussed by the Constitutional Affairs Commission and I call on the representatives of this Commission to give their opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1647	The Constitutional Affairs Commission has mistakenly put this issue on the agenda today, given that we have not received it from the authorised persons, in this case the chairman of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We pulled him out of today's agenda session and we think today's House of Representatives should consider this item of the agenda, if it can take a stand on this, it would be good. If, however, we cannot take a position, we are waiting for a letter from the Constitutional Commission to plead on this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1648	I propose that we authorise the Constitutional Affairs Commission to prepare an answer and, of course, informing the House of Representatives to deliver what is necessary to the Constitutional Court in the manner required by the Constitutional Court. Provided you're not late. Who's in favor of this conclusion? - Twenty-five for it. So, most and a half entities. The conclusion is accepted. Therefore, the Constitutional Affairs Commission is authorised to do this part of the job. We've reached the final point of the agenda. They're parliamentary questions. Mr. Bogičević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1649	Your Honor, I have one question and one proposal with an explanation. The question is: The Stability Pact for Southeast Europe is very active these days and the establishment of a new, general system and civil order for Southeast Europe as a function of long-term stabilisation of the entire region. As far as I know, May 27th. A meeting was held in Bon on this topic, which I think would be good if this Parliament was informed of the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH and our delegation for the next session. 50 2. The proposal - for the next session of Parliament, I propose to prepare information and debate on the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe in the appropriate form, possible in this situation. Explanation: The Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, in which it is now, introduces the biggest changes since the fall of the Berlin Wall to date, and for this region perhaps in the last 50 years. In Europe, the concept of understanding sovereignty and political norms has changed. The new political categories are autonomous and state-owned in the European Union, not independent, internationally recognised and sovereign, as we have so far called them. Second category, autonomous areas that can be an integral part of the European Union. So it's about areas that are not internationally recognised states. A European, economic, monetary and legal system is being introduced and compensation is being made for the losses of customs duties for the realisation of the Pact, the amount is projected to be EUR 5 billion per year, and the figures are talking about EUR 30 billion. The implementation of a part of the Pact, called the Civil Order, is in charge of the European Union and of preventing crimes against humanity, NATO PAKT. The proposal says, quotes: "The European Union cannot simply and immediately open all its political institutions to a number of small states, especially those that do not meet European political norms". I think that by dealing with these issues we could turn more to the future, which is on the threshold, the realisation of the Pact is well planned in a year or two, and only then can we understand how many issues we have discussed today are, in fact, peripheral and narrow areas for our future, the future of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1650	Thank you. They've got three more reported. Mr. Branković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1651	I'd like to make a suggestion. I think that at the state level, we should consider a form of regulation that regulates the area of sport in our country. Namely, here, we have witnessed all these negotiations about playing off, whether there will be, whether or not, about the representative representation of our country in all the team sports. I think it would be an additional motive for young people across BiH to play sports, as it is a way of dealing with healthy citizens in this country. It is likely that the first obstacle will be whether there is a constitutional basis for such regulation, I would call on it, or I would quote Mr Dokić, who says nicely, "This might be a text for a minimum of political goodwill if we did this area as well." I think this would be really good, that's my proposal to the BiH Council of Ministers, to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1652	Thank you. Mrs. Havel, please. 51
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1653	I have one question. Why did the representatives of the BiH Parliament not participate in a meeting of CEI countries in Prague, which is held from 6th to 8th, so today, even though they have been invited to do so?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1654	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1655	We as Parliament and the working bodies of Parliament were not involved in preparations for the last donor conference. I only read about the results of the donor conference in practice in the means of information and, according to the statements of those present, I could not get the full impression except for the total amount of funds, what we achieved there and what resources we have, or for which purposes we have provided. I would ask the BiH Council of Ministers to give us information on the results of the last donor conference, the way and the conditions under which funds will be provided from this Donor Conference and for which purposes have been provided, what commitments has BiH made and how will we implement them, and how do we monitor the implementation of the commitments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1656	Thank you. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1657	I would first ask the question, I would address the Presidency, I would suggest that in the agenda of each future session there be a point: answer the parliamentary questions. The question would now be whether the Assembly has referred my question to the BiH presidency? If so, then my next question would be for the next congregation, of course, to answer the question and answer why did I get an answer at today’s session? We need to seriousise the relationship of individuals and institutions to MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1658	Thank you. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1659	I, too, would now not have a specific question but an appeal, that is, to ask the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly to make a recommendation, i.e. a request, to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the decision to extend the application for the return of dwellings on which there is a tenant law, which stands out on June 19th. Since no claim for the return of tenant rights in Srebrenica and in other places has been received. Another appeal is that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. 52 The House of Representatives, eventually approves a visit by members of the Human Rights Commission to certain municipalities where human rights are drastically violated, where members of the Commission would choose municipalities from both the Federation of BiH and the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1660	Thank you. Mrs Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1661	Dear President, at the last session of this same Parliament, a group of MPs, particularly Mr Spahić, Kadić and Branković and I, we have made a proposal to schedule a session of this Parliament, which would include "Bosnia and Herzegovina and European integration". Since you have not responded and scheduled the meeting, I ask you to make a statement to the Kolegijum on this matter, by taking the opportunity to say that the Political Committee of the Council of Europe of Parliament was held in Strasbourg on 25 May and that Mr Blocert, as the main rapporteur on the political situation in our country, expressed very positively on the prompt response of the Council of Ministers of BiH's Council of Ministers, who brought the Action Plan with a request that this Action Plan be implemented as soon as possible. And secondly, I would like to welcome what happened yesterday in Srebrenica, i.e. a little optimism after this dark meeting, so, the establishment of a multiethnic government in Srebrenica, which we should welcome as a positive shift of what is happening, and I ask that the College declares itself on the holding of this parliamentary session on the subject of “Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration”, with the fact that, as far as I am aware, you will probably say the same thing, the Secretary of the Council of Europe and the chairman of the Council of Ministers will come on June 19th, and it would be good if this meeting were before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1662	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1663	Gentlemen, I have two questions. First questions and please answer me at the next session. Are you allowed to act against the city's defences in the FBiH? And the second question, who will compensate for damage to the property and crops in those areas of BiH where SFOR does not allow action against civil defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-08-0.u1664	Thank you. These are the exterminations of parliamentary matters. Just one more notice. Thus, four MPs submitted an initiative to schedule a session on which “European Integrations” would be the subject. We are obliged to respond to this initiative and schedule a session. We'll hold the College in a few days and arrange the next session. At the same time, I would like to inform you that from 19 June to 21 June, the chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and Foreign Ministers of Iceland, Mr Halord Azgibson and Secretary General of the Council of Europe, Mr Danijel Tarčis. We found 53 of the most appropriate time to be on Saturday at 15 a.m. on June 19th to hold a joint session of the two homes of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to which a gentleman from the Council of Europe would address. This, too, should serve you as information for commitment planning and, of course, implies that if not before 19 June, we will all see each other on Saturday. This concludes today's session, and I thank you for your work. The sitting's done at 6:00. Hey, hey, hey, hey,
