ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u177	Gentlemen, I suggest we get started. I am opening the 4th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I welcome all MPs and envoys, members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of information funds and all present. I find that the Assembly lacks only one representative of the Serbian people, this is Mr. Đoko Pajić, so we have a quorum and much more than a quorum, so the Assembly can normally work and decide. I suggest the agenda as you received in the invitation. You know why this agenda, due to the stalemate that has arisen and the need to adopt the budget, i.e. the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the service of external debt and the service of institutions, is proposed as you have obtained in the material. I am giving the agenda for the debate, i.e. the plea. Any objections to the agenda? Here you go. Mugdin Herceg.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u178	Mr. President, fellow MPs, fellow MPs and esteemed guests. In the context of the debate on the proposed agenda, I would not add or take anything, but rather express one of my own personal disappointments that in this period, from 18 March to 18 May, we had a four-time session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that in the first session for the 4th session we had a second agenda, which included a set of high representative laws, Mr Carlos Vestendorp and certain laws that we agreed on at the last 3rd session, in line with the conclusion on the adoption of the law not coming from the Council of Ministers, to be found on the agenda, here, today they are not here. In that sense, I would like to ask the question, given the conclusion of the last 3rd session, in the Ad.8. Why was the adoption of the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in BiH not in the procedure today, which was adopted by the House of Representatives? Also, why he didn't find himself in the process, given the conclusion under point A.8. from last session, in the procedure, means, a set of laws related to the proposals made by MPs, Mr Lagumdžija, Mr Tokić and Mr Ćeman? In that sense, I would really have to remind myself of Mr Vestendorp's letter of 8 December, when, with congratulations for the successful work of this House, he pointed to very complex issues standing before BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs in the area of the implementation of the peace process, the improvement of the peace process and the adoption of their own internal structures in BiH. It is said very nicely there that in a certain way we are all on a test of responsibility for taking over the fate of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina in our own hands. I think we're on that test, at least for this period that's behind us, though, we're down. In that sense, I would ask that, at the next session, we take into account what we had in the first session, for the 4th session of the law that was temporarily put into effect by the High Representative of the International Community, Mr Carlos Vestendorp, as well as the laws that came from our esteemed MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u179	Thank you, Mr. Herce. Here's the thing. Because of the problems that have arisen, we have defined ourselves today for what would by no means be disputed. My colleagues from the Serbian People's Club have been obliged to, on the proposal for a law on the privatisation of banks and businesses, deliver their position, reportedly it was, practically, almost, and I haven't received it yet, but, if we had, we have today chosen to take the first step that will not be at all controversial, and we can schedule a session as soon as the material is enough, and there is already enough, it will be very soon. We'll monitor the House of Representatives. We'll try, mostly, to go behind them one step, because they're the home that first examines the materials before us. That's one thing. The second thing, regarding your second remark, I have looked at, as you have seen, the structure of the BiH government, there are distances here as far as anywhere in the world, more than in America, and more than in China, therefore, we have meetings of the BiH Council of Ministers, this parliament depends on all of us, depending on the Council of Ministers' meetings, because they are here today, from the Federation of BiH government, from both homes of the Federation of BiH, from the RS Assembly and on countless religious and other holidays that we have here, and I am asking you again to have club presidents deliver what they can, and this is a list of holidays for which one people, one club thinks we should not work that day. I have made the same request to others, to sort of agree, to recapitulate meetings, whether this is the first Sunday, second, third or fourth, it is no matter, we will adapt to the second, and at least we are formally the highest home, but we know when the session of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federation of BiH is so that we can try to synchronise other sessions in the Federation of BiH and RS, so we have one space reserved for the work of the People's House. I hope we can solve this problem, which I hope, in the coming period, we will solve very quickly. So I suggest, if there's no one else, we adopt the agenda and start working. Who's on the agenda like this? As far as I can tell, there's no one against or abstention, so the agenda was unanimously adopted. The first item is the record. You've got the record. Any objections? There isn't. Who's to adopt a record like this? The abstentions? There is no one, so we move on to the next item of the agenda, which is the 3 Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments in 1998. I'm opening a debate. Before someone takes the words, with a variety of circumstances, even though it is important things, we have adopted it relatively quickly on the working bodies, one is because we need it and we have broken all the deadlines, and the other is that it is composed so that even a much larger expert in this would not be able to do much better, so we have suggested, something later you will hear, about the budget for this year. Is there anyone who has any objections, or is there anyone to report for a discussion on the subject of the Reports? Mr. Čampara, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u180	We received this report on the execution of the budget for 1998, and today we will adopt both the Budget and the Budget Act. I am reporting for one simple reason in future, if we want the Assembly to work with all its necessary functions, that there must be much more in the future to be taken into account, both by the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs and by the government of entities, for the normal arrival of funds approved by the Budget of the BiH Assembly. We have not received these funds regularly in the past, given that from 1.6. we receive these funds through the BiH Council of Ministers and the Central Bank of BiH, and also, according to the Interim Finance Decision for the first three months of this year, these funds are not regularly delivered. In order for us, as the Assembly, to be able to carry out all obligations both in BiH territory and in international institutions, I think it will be necessary for this issue to be seriously addressed by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs in the coming period, and that it, mainly with the governments of entities, agree that these funds, at least these funds that are approved and which will be approved in this year by the Assembly of BiH in Budget, be regularly delivered. I have to say, in the last year, we didn't get as much funds as we did in the budget, but they were received much less, and that's why we can't carry out some of the obligations that we have towards various international institutions. I only reported that the future of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as well as the entity governments, should take much more account of the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Is there anyone else? If not, I am voting on the report on the implementation of last year's budget. Who's in? Anybody got any abstentions? Against? There's no one here, so that means there's been a unanimous adoption of the Budget Report for the past year. The next item of the agenda is 4 Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments in 1999 You have a proposal for a budget ahead of you. Before anyone comes forward for a discussion, I am opening a debate and I am informing you that both committees have considered the Budget and adopted it, noting that the amendments and conclusions adopted by the House of Representatives and which you have before you are. And another conclusion is that the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Foreign Trade Ministry, delivers a list of end-users, i.e. the borrower, noting whether they fulfil obligations or guarantees fall on the entity's burden. Who's calling for a discussion? If there is no one, I would also like the budget of the BiH institutions, please, Mlaćo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we see that the sources of budget revenue have quite limited the amount of budget and I have been given the answer to the question – why there is no item in the budget to finance the return. However, I also have information that funds could appear on a larger scale if international institutions, through various kinds of assistance, do so, so there is the possibility of a rebalancing of the Budget. I would like to suggest that, in the case of the budget rebalancing, the issue of financing returns, and that is where the BiH state should also deal with it, be a priority and that certain funds, whether it is a few million marks, or if it can be more, must be rerouted to that end, therefore, if there is such funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Mlaćo. At the club, i.e. the commissions, there were more discussions, I don't see any need to bother myself much about it, but it is obvious that the item Costs, i.e., Finance of the BiH Assembly, both homes, is really too modest, but what is there, we hope that at some point the Council of Ministers of BiH will be more issued, i.e., that a little redistribution will do differently. We also went well “in the distribution of space” (?), but we will try to be an example and help to make all of this work better together, if that is the price, then MPs will, that is, pay. Are there any more debaters? If not, I am voting and budgeting the BiH institutions to finance BiH's international commitments for 1999. Who's in? I find that the budget we discussed was adopted unanimously. The next item of the agenda is the Law on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations in 1999. You have the law before you and the small changes that have been made. I'm opening a debate. 5 I know what this is about, the Commission has done it, and since this house is only 15 envoys, in committees, practically everyone, if adopted on committees, then there is no reason not to be adopted here. That's why I'm putting this law to the vote. Who's in? Does anyone mind? No abstentions. So we unanimously passed this law. The next item of the agenda is Emissary Issues at the House from which we are delegated, it's always an hour short. I hope it will be too much for us, that if we have questions, we will quickly ask them and receive adequate answers in the form in which they are normally done. Here you go. I expected this session to last for a while, but I didn't expect it to be this short, those who slowly burn these cameras won't notice anything. Anyway, I think we've done an important job today. Here you go, Avdo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u184	It may be my habit from the past, because I always ask the question, I am going to the BiH Council of Ministers, because I believe that it is, as an executive body, one of the most important bodies in BiH to resolve many issues. I think that, given that we are in a rather modest space, the Council of Ministers of BiH should, as soon as possible, raise the issues of at least building the second floor, and preferably the third floor of this assembly and its operation, but since they are not listed in this adaptation and these halls that would hold the sessions, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, and other sessions they have. They, in particular, who know this assembly, that it would be necessary to adapt on the second floor one hall that is very suitable for holding congregation meetings, both the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, because you see this new installation now, it will not be enough for, so to say, the comfortable work of the House of Representatives, because there are many more MPs and I don't think that these are so big funds that this hall could not be made. And if it were to be adapted, then it would be quite a solid space, not just for each other's sessions, but for other sessions of joint institutions that will be held and that should be held in this building. And I think, I urge this more, if I may say so, to the Council of Ministers of BiH that, both with the European Union and with all other relevant international institutions that can help us, an additional effort is made to get to the adaptation of this whole building as soon as possible, and especially with the space we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u185	Thank you. Mr. Silajdžić, here you go, co-chairman. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u186	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Here, in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would like to thank the MPs who adopted these agenda points, briefly, but very important for BiH, of course, we prepared Budget, and the BiH presidency is the proposing. As for Mr. Čampara's appeal, here we have consulted here while you spoke, Mr. Čampara, of course we respect that appeal, but let me inform you that we've already done something about it. So, the European Union is funding all four floors, it has a new 3,800,000, approximately, euros, which is approved. We've been looking for the other building as well, so far it's only on demands, suggestions, applications, etc. However, I hope that one day it will be, and this other building that is within the complex to be qualified for function. On the other hand, this hall, unfortunately, does not enter this amount that you were talking about, of course, that in a better time we will try to provide funds for that hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-18-0.u187	Thank you, Mr. Silajdžić. It's going to be a little unusual for those who are following these sessions, because this is the only home that hasn't established the day of the agenda (?But we'll have a chance. Thank you for your work, this session is closed. The session ended at 2.30 p.m. End
