ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3185	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 13th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. In addition to MPs, members of the BiH presidency, co-chairman, vice-chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Political Department in BiH, were invited to attend today's meeting. Representatives of public information funds were invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome and thank you for having responded to the session. I hope those who have not responded are justifiably absent. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, according to the Interim Secretariat, 30 MPs, 9 from the RS and 21 from the Federation of BiH attend the session. The absence was announced by Mr Ivo Mijačević for health reasons, also, the absence was announced by Pero Skopljak, Bogić Bogičević, Ljubomir Zovko and Nikola Špirić, all for sickness, and Branislava Jovanović, Vito Rakić, Branko Dokić announced their absence, and Mr Mustafa Pamuk announced that he would be late for the session, due to some urgent commitments, that he would arrive around 16 hours. I hope we finish the work before that. Dear gentlemen, we have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making and I suggest we get started. Before I propose a agenda, I would like to inform you that, as a Kolegijum, we have agreed before the session that we will have regular meetings with the presidents of parliamentary clubs and MPs who do not have parliamentary clubs in Parliament, that we will try to negotiate and agree on positions on the agenda and on all other issues that have been lost in regular sessions and we have already done so today. I want to inform you, too, that, therefore, today we have agreed on the following. That by the end of the year we will have three more sessions of 12 and 15.12 and 22.12. That everything from the Work Programme that is not contained in this session and the previous session will be deployed in these three meetings and that we will inform the Council of Ministers of BiH so that they can prepare the materials in accordance with our work programme, because they are already late for the implementation of their tasks, so that we can carry out our obligations, and we have provided them with a work programme adopted at the previous session. This work programme has been adopted and we do not have the necessary materials so far that we can work at that pace as foreseen by the work programme. I think that this way of working has given us some results and we have the consent of all those present at that meeting of the College with the representatives of the parties that this kind of work should continue before the session, that we should, so to speak, waste the most time on the deal, and when we come here to go to two concrete works and activities. We will by tomorrow, but perhaps today we will have allocated, in addition to the terms, and the contents for each session, so that this operational plan that you have received is not considered final, because it will already be amended today according to today's agreement. Is there anything Genjac fellow has to add? Have I, gentlemen of the parties, forgotten what important to say, and you have been present, and you want me to say it here in front of parlament, do you hear me, gentlemen of the Parliament, I hope you hear it. I just want to say one more sentence, that there have been reserves both according to the content and by terms due to certain tight working terms and because of the need to schedule all of this according to the work programme, however, the commitment was the following. We will propose, and anything that does not obtain materials in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and does not go through a certain business procedure will not be put on the agenda. We want to show in part that Parliament is ready to respect the adopted programme of work and timing in accordance with the programme, and another novelty is also in this work. Sessions that do not end in the scheduled period and at the scheduled time will continue the next day. Also, you know that we have scheduled a meeting time with the parliamentary clubs, representatives of the parliamentary clubs, that we have scheduled the beginning of the session, that we have scheduled a regular break where MPs might know when to eat, have a shorter vacation and work until 6:00. If it doesn't end in that time, it continues the next day. Please, that's the position of the Kolegijum and it's supported by one small reserve from a part of the political parties, but no one was against access, but it has a reserve according to, let me say, the amount of work ahead of us. Do you have any questions about this? I don't think you do. I've only wanted to introduce you to this attitude, and we're going to sit regularly as a Kolegijum with representatives of political parties and parliamentary clubs, before each session, in terms of how it's supposed to be, in the conclusion that you've been given. As far as the conclusion is concerned, the operational programme will be amended today, in order to bring the content of the work programme into line and what is proposed, and this will be over today. So much for that. You, gentlemen, have received the contents of today's session in the draft agenda and received the materials. You received a record from the 11th session of the House of Representatives today because there were no technical options to be delivered to you before. You have also received the text of the Rules of Procedure today with the remarks of Mr Fernand, the representative of the PAR project and there will be no problem today, because we will discuss this point today in principle. So today, only the procedure for putting the Rules of Procedure in the congregation procedure is being opened and will be discussed in principle. I suggest the following: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of House of Representatives 2. Discussion of Immigrant and Asylum Law Proposal 3. Consideration of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, the debate in principle, which has a clear character of debate 4. Giving consent to the ratification of the following agreements (a) the Social Security Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Austria with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement; (b) the Loan Agreement between the Social Fund for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH, on the regulation of the pre-war debt of BiH with a agreed, signed-allocation of commitments to the Social Fund by the Ministry of Finance 3 of the Federation of BiH and the decision to accept the debt to the Social Development Fund of Europe by loans used before 2.4.'92. year adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia; c) Agreement on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia to and from Luke Ploca and through the territory of BiH; d) Treaty on the Guarantee of the Network for Electricity Transfer, the Electricity Management System between BiH and the European Investment Bank with guarantee contracts signed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia; e) Loan Agreement, emergency improvement of the electrical system between the Japanese Fund for overseas economic co-operation of the OSCE and BiH and 5.. poslanički' questions and suggestions I am opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Since there are no applications for a debate on the agenda, please the Secretariat, how many are present in the O.R.? - 31 - 31. Who's for the proposed agenda? - 26 Who's against it? Abstained 5. I don't think there's any need to carry out the procedure until the end, because I saw that both the Federation of BiH and RS has crossed the quota provided for by the Rules of Procedure and I believe that the agenda has been adopted. Any objections to the voting procedure on the agenda? There isn't. Please be aware, you don't have to put this in a stenogram right now, but I think the result of this previous session has given a positive effect. It's over, we've adopted the agenda, no more. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 11th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives I am opening a debate on the first item of the agenda. Who's applying for a hearing? Mr. Ambassador Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3187	On the occasion of this report, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, members of the College, I would just like to draw attention that Mr. Kurtović, on that occasion, expressed, as minister, information that the Council of Ministers of BiH will soon appear with the proposed document or framework for the economic strategy, for economic policy and social policy at BiH level. I would only ask that this is clearly seen in the minutes as an obligation, because it is one of the initiatives of the MPs that obliges both colleges who accepted it and instructed the BiH Council of Ministers to be in the programme of our activities in the coming period, that is all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3188	Here you go, who's still reporting for discussion. There are no reports. I'm closing the discussion on the first item of the agenda. How long is he in the O.R.? 4 - 31 Let me know just a change. I'll run 31 until you let me know. Who's to adopt the 11th session record with the remarks of Mr Spahić? - 26 Who's against it? There's no one here. Abstained 5. There's no need to vote on entities, because I've seen that there's a necessary majority. Any objections to the voting procedure. I find there are no objections to the voting procedure. Let's move on. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. Considering the Proposal for a Law on Immigration and Asylum Please, given the importance of this law, I would like to inform you that we have put this law back on the OHR Office's initiative, and that this is the reason for the occurrence of this point in such a short period of time in the agenda. You, I hope, have also received some new amendments to the material. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3189	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since this is the bill, then the amendments should have worked. I didn't act on amendments, so I'm just going to make one proposal in terms of conclusion, because what I'm about to say can also seem to me to be sublegal acts by the competent ministry to regulate and define. In this law, in a few of his articles, I have found some inaccuracies that I think should be specified by this sublaw. In Article 20, it says "an application for temporary stay approval can be refused if", and under b) "in the end it poses a threat to the public order of BiH". My question is how is it proven and what is proven and what is it that we show that someone poses a threat? You have similar things, say in chapter 5 of the refusal to enter and banishment, so it says "the party can be refused entry" d) if it can reasonably be assumed that he will lack the funds necessary for his stay. Again, the question is justified, to assume what that means, namely, should be defined more precisely. In the same article, under (e) "if it can be assumed that it will carry out the activities for which a work permit is required", etc., means again it can be assumed and another place I found it. In the same article 27, "the stranger will be refused entry into the country if his presence in the country poses a threat to public order and security", and this should define who is the threat to the presence of the country and how we will know why someone can refuse entry in accordance with this article.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3190	Thank you very much, MP, I apologize, that the obligation before the session, in exceptional cases, to submit amendments to the session. He went to the amendments. This is what we're going to do as a question. Okay. He can regulate. I ask the representatives of the promoters to follow the discussion and to give answers to some questions when they hear everything.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3192	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this law at the previous session and as far as I have understood all the amendments that were tabled at the previous session, the motion for this amendment has not been adopted, we have voted on this law and the law has not passed the procedure. Now in reviewing this law, I have only received one amendment, and that is Mr. Banjac's amendment. I would ask that you carry out the procedure, that the Proposer declare himself on this amendment, and unless there are any additional amendments to approach the voting process. The Commission's position today on constitutional and legal issues.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3193	Okay. Did the promoter get an amendment to this new one? Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, did you get it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3194	Here, now we've got it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3195	I don't know if you're going to have an essay, let's say, advice that might come out on the amendment. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss this point, so let's do as MP Čolo suggested, that we go more efficiently. Is there one time you just have to give up a name to be a Srbin? I want to, as an amendment speaker, if I can discuss it, to see that none of the MPs are present, I want to discuss it as an MP. You have received the amendment, it is about harmonising the text of article 1, item 2 with the Constitution of BiH, and it is clear that I have proposed a compromise solution between earlier and now that anyone who does not have BiH citizenship is considered to be a foreigner in accordance with Article 1, point 7, a. and b. of the Constitution. I think we'd get past these, too, to say, misunderstandings on this matter, respecting the highest act of the state, and that was my goal. As for the second amendment, which was also, I would also like to inform the public of BiH here, as well as you that we are fully in agreement with the OHR's opinion, where it is said in certain members of this law, or draft, still drafts, and I hope that the law will be very soon, already today. When it comes to the special status of citizens of certain states, the BiH Council of Ministers, under this law, becomes a law, of course, there is the possibility that from the passport regime and visa regimes, an exception, by a decision of a particular state, which it considers important. Thus, we would give the Council of Ministers the possibility that, in accordance with the law, if we adopt it, they would also do part of their work for the benefit of the citizens and the people of BiH, that is, their wishes or, to say the wishes of their representatives. That's all I have to say about the amendment. I think we're very close to the deal, if we want to reach it, and, of course, I've also shown this change in content that I want this law to be adopted in an effective and fast way today. If the Council of Ministers of BiH, I do not enter your way of working, if you have the legal possibility of working in the composition in which you are present here, I ask you to make your statement on the amendment, if you do not have it, tell us, because that is, to say very important to us. Thank you very much. 6 I would now, as chairman, now differently, ask representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, if they have the possibility of legal work, to give them ten minutes of time to plead, if not, to tell us now. Break 10 minutes. Ten to two here. There's even, I think it's a good idea. Can it wait a minute, gentlemen of the Parliament? I have one suggestion, if you're okay with it, that we postpone this point for a moment and move on to the next? The SDP Parliament Club disagrees. Break 10 minutes. There are 26 MPs in the O.R. Enough to keep us going. I ask representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3196	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have consulted within the Council of Ministers of BiH and I must say that, although calls for this session have been sent to all, unfortunately, I do not know why there are no members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the co-chair and the minister of the Serb people today, so we were unable to make a full statement on the amendments that Mr Banjac, an MP in this house, addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. However, we have a common position to ask Parliament today to adopt the draft law in the form in which it is addressed to Parliament and which is fully agreed on by the Council of Ministers of BiH, so we have a full consensus on it and continue to fully support both the OHR and the UNHCR and the Council of Europe, because together with them we have made this proposal a law. I, in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, ask Parliament to adopt the law as it is, and we ask Mr Banjac to give up his amendment, the more we believe that the amendment, in itself, is not so relevant to the Law itself, nor is it significantly improving it. I would remind you that, in some ways, it is also the position of OHR, which they have repeated in their letter, in response to the earlier two amendments that came from Mr Banjac, because Article 1, item 2, which is referred to the amendment, in fact, regulates and provides a definition of who is considered a foreigner, and this law does not define who is a BiH citizen. Once again, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, we ask that Parliament today adopt the proposal for a law behind which the Council of Ministers of BiH and all relevant representatives of the international community are also concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3198	Dear colleagues, chairman, distinguished fellow Members, guests and representatives of public information funds, indeed, here we are again in a position to come into the position, for some formal reasons, in situations that we cannot vote in a way that would indeed be notified to the Interim Rules of Procedure that we must adhere to. The fact is that we have an amendment ahead of us, and the fact is that we are asked by the Council of Ministers to go over it and pass a legal act, and that the Council of Ministers of BiH cannot be declared for reasons that it cannot be met. I, truthfully, have no record of whether the amendment of the gentleman, in this case of the chairman, therefore, Mr Banjac, was timely delivered to the Council of Ministers of 7 BiH, we do not really have this information at this time, however, it is absurd to ask me, therefore, as an MP, to ask the BiH Council of Ministers to skip that step and to go straight to the vote on this legislation. I think in any case that this is extremely unserious and I cannot agree with such a way of working, and I will vote absolutely against this law at this moment, if it approaches the vote now, until the moment we get to the position that we have the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH as it is, otherwise, envisaged, and after that, it is only possible to vote on this draft, i.e., the proposal for legal text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3199	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? Ambassador, Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3200	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, speaking of this law, I disagree that the BiH Council of Ministers disagrees on this amendment. We can't work like this. The Constitution must be respected. This is proof that some do not comply with constitutional provisions and try to avoid, in every way possible, fulfilling obligations under the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3201	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? I should be the one to plead. Dear gentlemen, believe me, my true desire was to find a compromise solution for such an important legal project. We know the reason why it was proposed, and we know the reason why the proposed amendment is in accordance with the Constitution, in order to respect the Constitution. I ask you, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, and I ask all future promoters not to bring MPs into any double roles. By one role, you can suggest what you consider important, by the other you don't need to suggest it because someone has already done it for you. When we go beyond this law, there's always someone who's been thinking about us, so it turns out that the best thing for us to do is to get our own opinions, so that here, instead of us, we could probably be robots who will just raise and lower our hands, you have to respect that MPs have the right to do business, to build up all proposals, no matter who agreed or didn't agree with them, that's one thing. Secondly, you must understand that politics and the ability to negotiate and create compromises and I truly wanted to make a small contribution to this compromise in order for this important law to be passed. I must now tell you, if you have put us in such a position as the Council of Ministers of BiH, that you have not declared yourself to what it is, there it is. You have a session tomorrow, I know that. You didn't answer, you gave us your opinion on amendments to the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons, don't get me wrong, I may not have given you the right name of the Law, but you know what I'm talking about. You will tomorrow be in a position to plead and on these amendments as legislators. I don't see any reason why tomorrow, when you're in full shape, don't make a statement about this amendment, I don't see a reason. I don't see any reason why we, today, if we care about the solution to the problem, don't say, along with the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons, tomorrow we will continue the debate after we hear the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Law on Immigration and Asylum, because we are here tomorrow. If you don't want that either, gentlemen, I have a third compromise proposal. If, then, 8 you will not have either, I also have a third one, which I quite clearly show that I care very much for this Parliament to work, and this compromise proposal is, my proposal, the Federation of BiH parliamentary group, I think it is the MP Mrs. Čolo, where it is said that the foreigner is considered the person who does not have BiH citizenship in accordance with what I have stated with Article 1, point 7, point 7(a) and (b) and the Law on Citizenship adopted, I, here, and the Law on Citizenship. Let's cut that empty walk short, let's go ahead already. Gentlemen, you have a third option now. This is really the most I can do, and more than that, because of my dignity as an MP, I can't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3202	I expected someone to say something, however, no one is answering, everything is as clear as ever. Your amendment was received on 23rd, whether, today 23rd, it seems to me, that your amendment has arrived today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3203	And according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3204	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We've been working on this for two years. Therefore, the talk of serious or non-serious should be taken...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3205	I wasn't talking.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3206	Those who spoke earlier should be taken with a reserve we have very seriously approached this, although today we can adopt it, if you want, if not, we will leave for tomorrow morning, in the full composition of the Council of Ministers of BiH and you will get our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3207	This is where the CD Coalition asked for a break for 10 minutes, but only 10 minutes. Let's make a deal like this. Since we predicted a break from half three to three, a regular break, or two to three, can we use this break to three hours for people to eat and continue? So, ten minutes break, at 2 and 25, we're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on. We're going back to work. Are there enough MPs? Whether a representative of the CD Coalition, who asked for a break, is going to say the result, or I'm going to say what I heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3209	Nothing remains, but there have been attempts of some kind of agreement for possible solutions, since no compromise has been found, the proposal is that this point be postponed by tomorrow, and after a statement by the BiH Council of Ministers is discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3210	Thank you very much. I'd just maybe a little extra, we had more compromises. Does anyone have a wish to say about this?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3211	In any case, as an MP, I absolutely respect what Mr Genjac said and especially, given that there is no possibility of compromise, that tomorrow it is going to the Council of Ministers of BiH, as otherwise envisaged, but I only wanted to say in one word that, indeed, respecting what Mr. Rečica said earlier, that it is a single amendment that does not fundamentally change the meaning of the Law on Immigration and Asylum at all, and I expected that, indeed, there will be a good will for us all today, given what we want, and that is that the sooner we adopt this legislation, and ultimately, the international mediators want it, because this law is one of the key legal regulations for the adoption of the Council of Europe. I just wanted to say that I expected a compromise, on the other hand, but there is no compromise, but I am deeply convinced that the opinion of the BiH Council of Ministers tomorrow will be positive and that we will finally adopt this legal text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3212	I have one question. Is business okay, that's exactly what I wanted to realize, that at my 12th session, so the proposal is to be the first extension of the 12th, and then to continue the 13th session, and to solve it that way and to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you gentlemen MPs, for this position, to delay the debate for tomorrow, this point where we will conclude? Is there any other desire to participate in the debate or to conclude the debate, that we know that, too, is a good point. There is no one else willing to participate in the debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate, and I'm leaving the plea on both the amendment and the law for tomorrow. Ad.3. Consideration of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in principle I open the debate, and before opening the debate, I would like to inform you of the following. You've won the Prednart Rules of Procedure, it's somewhere, I think, in September of the month. Meanwhile, there was also a comment and remarks on the Rules of Procedure by Mr Fernand who wanted to make his contribution, let me say, to the quality of the Prednart upgrade. The Kolegijum discussed the Prednacrt and concluded that it formed a working group ahead of itself that would first carry out the first revision of the text so that the Kolegijum could deliver the draft to you. The Commission met, and the Commission was represented by all three peoples and members of the Secretariat, of course. I don't care about their names, it's about three members of the Secretariat and three experts, of course, that the Proposer of the poslovnik of Procedure of the Kolegijum, because that's what we mean, because we formed the Commission. We expect today to make a statement in principle about the principled remarks and attitudes regarding the Prednacrt you have received in the debate. We will listen to this debate at the College once more and, in collaboration with the Commission, we will come up with quality upgrades. I expect of you that within, today, we should agree, and he should not be longer than seven days, deliver your remarks and amendments to the amendment, and then we would prepare this draft somewhere for December 15th, for a session to be held on December 15th. The fact is that none of you, even though you have received prednacrt, have delivered any sentence or remark, nor any amendment, nor any text that would speak in the 10th direction that should be upgraded. Probably, except for Mrs. Havel, that's true, so I'm saying, we considered her a member of the College, because she often replaces Mr. Skopljak. Therefore, we expect you to do it, but something weak. Therefore, you have seven days to deliver all your thoughts to the College, and we will consider this in the formation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't say you didn't get the material, you can't say you didn't have enough time, all that was. I expect to have a discussion today, but I'm asking you not to go into detail. You'll have a chance to amend it within this time limit as agreed. I expect you to tell me if that seven-day deadline is short. I don't think so, given that you've had two months and more to negotiate as a club and as individuals, you're choosing. Here, after this I open a debate, who wants to participate in the debate, but please don't go into detail? Who wants to take part in the debate? poslanik Lagumdžija, I apologize, Mrs. Muminagić, I have not seen you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3213	An esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the fact is that we have received this prednacrt earlier, and I was just saying, I expected that we would have had a more concrete discussion in the working bodies in order to give us suggestions in working bodies related to the Rules of Procedure, it may be here on this body, but I think it would be more effective, and I didn't write anything about it, because I think we should go through one principle debate first, and then on concrete solutions to make amendments, but what is there, we can do some principle debate now, but I think that this concrete solution would be better for us to talk in the working bodies, especially if the working bodies here have a particular chapter on their jurisdiction, that would be the first. Secondly, I'd give some of my thinking about the rights and duties of a representative, this isn't on behalf of the club. I think it would be good here in Articles 7 and 8 to see if this matter is business, because it seems to me that constitutional jurisdiction has been taken over. I wouldn't say it would be a good idea to put this in here, but as far as the rights and duties of MPs are concerned, it's my thinking, I say that thinking, so if we can get around it in the course of further work, and it would be good to find a place. My thinking that, as far as the rights and duties of MPs are concerned, they should not only participate in the work. I think that we should make an effort for our participation in the work of Parliament and the working bodies to move towards finding a solution that will allow BiH, the BiH authorities established by the Constitution. My accent is that we are making efforts to find solutions, because participating in work, everyone can express their opinion, and there is no consensus, or finding a solution, and it seems to me that it is our task to come to a solution and that then the solutions we adopted, we follow their achievement and our suggestions and suggestions that we contribute to improving these solutions, what is not being realized, or the bodies that need to achieve or do not act are wrong. From that point of view, I am generally missing that part and coordinating the activities, our efforts to coordinate activities between BiH authorities, specifically Parliament and entities. I advocate, and I ask the College to consider this with due care, that, within the working bodies, we form, in addition to these proposed committees, and one commission to which I am now going to tell the purpose, I am ready to offer written text, that is, it does not have to be an amendment, but my thoughts on what this working body should be, and this is about 11 forming a committee to monitor and achieve gender equality and improve women's status. I must say that for the last four years since the Beijing Declaration adopted at the IV Conference, which was a conference dedicated to women, that, as far as I know, no body in BiH is engaged in realisation, the implementation of an action platform adopted at that time, that we do not have a strategy to implement this platform for action and I advocate that there is a single working body in Parliament that would primarily encourage activities on the implementation of the Beijing Declaration and the Action Platform, meaning it would encourage activities at the level of BiH and direct or coordinate or seek ways to coordinate activities at the level of BiH and entities and all in order to achieve this action platform, and the platform for action concerns 12 areas, areas of action in one country, so I think that there would be a place to form such a working body in Parliament, especially as BiH is a signator of these documents and participants. My idea is that this working body should look at the draft laws, or drafts or proposals, proposals for legal solutions, as the Constitutional Commission sees from the point of view of constitutionality and legality, this working body should consider those laws from the point of view of achieving gender equality and secondly, I think that this working body should suggest the preparation and consider platforms for the participation of our delegations in international working bodies and international organisations when these issues are being considered. The commitment to propose this is because I have noticed that no one in BiH, and certainly not in entities, deals with these issues and I think that Parliament could be a place where we can encourage these activities and achieve certain co-operation and coordination of the bodies working on these issues. Another thought is about MPs' clubs, I don't want to talk about details, just to say that I don't think MPs' clubs in the Rules of Procedure should be obligations, but should be MPs' rights and their parties' rights to form MPs' clubs. Here as it is set, I think it's set as a liability, personally I don't think that's right. We don't have to commit to make it possible, if MPs want to work through clubs to act, and those who are few and cannot form a club to join one of the clubs, means not obligations but rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3214	poslanik Deretić, MP Kadić and MP Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3215	Dear colleagues, we received this advance at the 6th, or 7th month, and I already, in fact, had a lot of objections to it, at the end of August of the month I had them in writing, however, I must be honest and say that I was a little caught up because the day before yesterday, I said so at the club before this session began, that I had received the Predact text, the Rules of Procedure of the Representative Council which was made by the gentleman, I see down in the signature, Mr Fernando Santo... I'd like to generally just a few things to apostrophe. The first thing, Mr. Chairman, is my deep opinion that this seven-day deadline for any more serious debate is too short. It seems to me that it would be much more effective for us to form a committee here at today's session, a committee of MPs, which would have 12 tasks, in the shortest possible time, so first, to make its remarks on the Prednact of the legal text that we received earlier, and also from Mr Fernand. Why am I saying this? When it comes to the Prednart that we got, and it says here, it's still written in Sarajevo, April '99. year, there are also provisions that are in collegiate with the BiH Election Law Draft, which is quite understandable, we have this draft almost, it is somewhere within a month, and this Prednart Rules of Procedure was made, as you can see here, in the fourth month o.g. By accepting this proposal, therefore, the Commission would be tasked with taking one and the other text and processing it and coming out with a proposal from the Representative Council and the House of Peoples, the Council of Peoples. Otherwise, I'm afraid it's going to take us a long time to agree on a text that would be acceptable and possibly subject to adoption. Mr. Chairman, I've only said in principle my remarks, otherwise, I say individually if necessary, I can make general remarks, but I think that's enough for now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3216	I just want to remind you, gentlemen of the MPs, of something you forgot and my dear colleague Deretić. When you received this Prednart Rules of Procedure, then you received a letter with him saying that by September 15, you were discussing the clubs of MPs, discussing it yourself, reading and delivering comments. So, we've left options, and that's serious opportunities, like the Kolegijum, that you're doing it. I don't mind forming a commission again, if we think it'll speed up the adoption, but there's a folk saying when it comes to forming a commission, but I wouldn't want to say it. I think it should be done already, since you've been reading all summer, in fact, and spending the fall reading and now all you have to do is sum up these remarks that you'll be delivering to us within 7 days. That's how I understand it, maybe I'm wrong, but that's how I see it. I don't mind this proposal. I, if the MP, Mr Fernando did not write the Rules of Procedure but put his remarks on our proposal, therefore, you only got his remarks and today you got them. That just completes it, let me say, your knowledge of the shortcomings and the good side of the proposal. Therefore, I expect that, however, we respect this, although I will not challenge my colleague's right to vote on this proposal to form a commission, if that is the solution. If a colleague thinks a commission should be formed, please deliver the conclusion to the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3217	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any need for a big debate on this agenda. I ask Mr. Deretić to give up his proposal and conform to Mr. Banjac's original proposal that we discussed this morning in the working version of the Constitutional Commission. I welcome the wish of the College to lead, to finally take over, in full capacity, the completion of the work on making a permanent Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH House of Representatives, because it seems to me that the BiH Parliament, unlike the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, is an institution that does not yet have a permanent Rules of Procedure. I would like to thank you, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission and support Mr Fernand's efforts to help us, as a mandated PAR programme for strengthening BiH institutions, in this respect, and I hope that we will continue to have one successful co-operation. The most important thing that seems to me at this point is that the College is firmly leading this process around the Rules of Procedure and establishing precise deadlines by when 13 we will have a debate on the Rules of Procedure, because it is in a certain way a constitution for the work of this House, or Parliament of BiH, and I believe that we should adopt it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3218	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, if today is a debate on the principle of this Rules of Procedure, that we all MPs stand at the point of view that the Assembly should bring its Rules of Procedure to which it will comply with Rule 4. The BiH Constitution, establish rules and procedures for its work. So that's not a question. If we continue to discuss things, I'm afraid we're going into a discussion about details. However, I would like to suggest some things to the College of the Assembly. You have formed a committee composed, as you say, of experts and members of the Secretariat, I would ask that this committee determines the draft of this Rules of Procedure as soon as possible and deliver it to us, because I, believe me, have received five versions of the Rules of Procedure, and each time I read it in detail, each time I review and compare it with the previous one to see if it's the same text. We have also received comments on the Rules of Procedure by Mr Fernand from the PAR project and I ask this committee which is, therefore, composed of experts to compare the text of the Rules of Procedure and its observations. Today, he told the Constitutional Commission that he was making a new proposal for the Rules of Procedure, so that it is now a third text and that this commission delivers to these MPs a final draft of the Rules of Procedure so that they can consider it properly in the assembly procedure. However, I would like to refer a little bit to what you said that we must submit written proposals and remarks to the text of the Rules of Procedure. I, believe me, have many objections concerning individual provisions, but I do not think that the lack of written proposals and opinions restricts my right to, as an MP, be able to, in the assembly procedure, when discussing the draft of this Rules of Procedure, not give my proposals and opinions. Don't limit this right to us. When the draft is here in procedure, each of these MPs has the right to intervene in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with other acts of our own.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3219	I didn't mean to deny anyone the right, but you have to understand a business provision that says the amendments are being delivered until the beginning of the session, except in special conditions at the session when it comes to connecting some two amendments to some third, compromise proposal, so, one new situation when it comes to being created, of course I won't argue. The right to take a word to no one, no problem. He's going into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3220	(speaks from the scene and there's no exposure)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3221	It is appropriate that text that came to you with a letter, but it is a little strange, gentlemen of the Parliament, to say no one has delivered any remarks except Mrs. Havel. It's a little strange that no one, however, I suggest, here, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3222	Honored representatives, guests, 14 I will indeed be very brief. I think in this situation right now we should make an effort all together to make the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House really quality. We know it's a very important document that we have to take good care of. I would like to say, generally speaking of this Rules of Procedure, the work material that has been delivered to us, that there are many provisions that have already been incorporated into the Constitution. There are provisions that will be or are already envisaged in a different way in the Electoral Law, there are some things that will absolutely have to change, and we have a suggestion from Mr. Santu Lale, and I think we have to take care of that. Namely, this as much as Mrs. Čolo has and which I have the same comments, I would suggest this, and everyone else who has or is now having these remarks, that now in this task force that is going to make new work material, that is, predicate and based on this new predicate to talk about something further. I suggest that whoever already has comments to give and to allow this first material to be of quality.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3223	I'd like to, gentlemen of the Parliament, to make a few suggestions in principle. One of them is to lose the body run by the Assembly, which is the College. I don't think it makes sense to transfer the powers of the College to the chairman, and that he has officially two deputies from the other two nations, no matter who it was, it's me now, and then it's gonna be someone else, but in fact, two people always rule out the procedure, let me say, certain decisions and the handling of parlament, and we say that we respect the constitutional provision that these are three people from the three constituent nations, and I think that we should take account of this and that we should clearly and precisely establish the obligations and responsibilities of the Kolegijum. I mean, about the composition of the commission. There's one illogicality in the text itself. Parliament is said to make up two-thirds of the Federation of BiH MPs and one-third from RS. When it comes to the composition of the working bodies, then it's gone, it's not right for me at all. The third illogicality that contradicts itself, in the same text, is the way to decide. Parliament, or the House of Representatives, decides in one way, and the Commission, in another way, decides its working bodies in another way. He can't, gentlemen, double the way. I think it's illogical. I'm not opening up the debate right now. I suggest that we take care of that when we work on the final version of the text and I'm surprised that Mr. Fernando didn't get caught up in it, because I think he's a man who's made a lot of contributions to improve the text and don't think that he's giving some kind of predicate, no, he's helping us as a Kolegijum in suggestions on the text that the College has accepted to propose and I'm asking that his interventions be so accepted. Anybody else want to talk? Thank you very much. I conclude this part of the debate, of course, with the conclusion that part of the stenogram relating to this debate is isolated and delivered to the Kolegijum so that it can be used in further work on the proposal of the Permanent Rules of Procedure. Ad.4. Giving consent to ratification of the following agreements I don't think there's any need to read this text now, because more time will pass to read it than you'll likely want to discuss. I call on the President of the Commission on international and external affairs, on the Commission's representatives on 15 international and external affairs, and on the President of the Constitutional Commission to submit the reports of their committees, but briefly, because we received the report, there is only some opening arguments...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3224	Mr Chairman and gentlemen MPs, given that there is no meeting at today's meeting of either the president or the first deputy, I will inform you, in front of the Commission, that today the Commission for International and Foreign Affairs held its 8th session and that on the agenda, it has had the agreement to ratify the agreement under a), b), c), d) and e) as it stands in today's call for a meeting. After the debate, the Commission concluded that it accepts the overall agenda, with a question of whether the agreement applies to BiH students in Austria and under point (c), the issue of which is the establishment of the board of directors and the Board of Appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3225	Thank you, one more president to hear, and then we'll answer in front of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3226	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee had a session just before the start of this session, so we haven't prepared a written report. The Commission considered all five agreements and assessed that there was a constitutional basis for granting consent to ratify all five agreements offered. The Commission has taken this decision unanimously.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3227	I'm opening a debate on this agenda point, would anyone like to take part in the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3228	I wanted to meet this home that this morning was to be held a session of the Commission on financial and budget issues, because at least three, and by my court and four of these agreements, i.e. three agreements and one agreement, are also concerned with the competence of this commission. Although the session was scheduled by the President of the Commission, the Commission was not held because members and neither did the President of the Commission come or transferred that obligation to the Deputy. I want to say here that I can't accept such irresponsible work because, either I don't need to convene committee sessions, or I need committee sessions held when they are called. I think there was reason to hold a meeting of the Finance Commission on these issues, because I do not want to challenge any agreement or their adoption, but I think that, from the point of view of this Commission, we should also consider BiH's responsibility before we bring or give our consent to these agreements. Once, as the Commission, we asked for 16 preparations of information on BiH's responsibility, it is in the Work Programme and I do not ask for such information to be submitted now, but I think that the Commission, as a working body, should and had the opportunity to inform itself of these issues and to take significant commitments from the point of view of the level of responsibility of BiH, and these agreements, to give its opinion. The reason for me to come out here is that this commission can't work, but several times we can't hold sessions and I have to express my disagreement with the Commission here. When we formed committees, you remember that there were problems here, specifically the SDP party couldn't get the seats in running the commissions she wanted, and today when we had to work, the people who fought to keep their positions on those commissions didn't have them running committee sessions. I don't think that's right, because those of us who want to work, we're in a situation where we can't work. I think it would be good to get this information about BiH's responsibility, so every time we discuss it, these questions can only be added, if they can't in the working bodies, then at a forum like this, add what level of duty it is, because I don't want, as an MP, to agree and raise my hands, and I don't know what remains behind us. Tomorrow someone will say BiH was over-indebted, that's what they did to you in that term, and we silence through these agreements. I don't have any problems with the agreement, I mean, I don't have any objections, I think it's useful to accept them, but I don't agree with this kind of work when they're adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3229	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else willing to discuss all the agreements, not to single out separately, means, by total point 4. There isn't. Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3230	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I would like to give an answer to the questions asked and to explain one more thing, more informatively. In spirit with the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, we are obliged and obliged to take over the debt pre-war, so it is no longer a matter of whether or not we will or will like it or not, that is the obligation we have to make. Of these three agreements, two are earlier, so BiH's pre-war debts, and we had to regulate them. The third loan, as you have seen, is a unambiguous loan, which is the Japanese government, which is their one association that provides for the development of the electricity system in BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers made one detailed information about BiH's 30.06 duties and, in spirit with the Foreign Debt Act, it will be delivered to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, its homes and I will try to speed it up to you and have total information from which you will be able to examine and have insight into this complete situation. As far as specific issues are concerned, when it comes to the establishment of the Port Authority and the Board of Appeal, the appointment of members of one and the other bodies under this Agreement is within the authority of the BiH Council of Ministers. During the development itself, i.e. the formulation of certain points in the Agreement on free passage through the territory of the municipality of Neum and access to the port of Ploca, were more formal... the present government of Croatia as an institution exists, there was no such thing?, there was the Council of Ministers of BiH and then deliberately left out the issue. 17 The second question is the issue of the agreement with Austria. The agreement does not decidently highlight any categories of users anywhere, so it does not highlight students either, as we interpret that they are automatically covered by this agreement. So BiH students studying in Austria should also enjoy all benefits and all provisions of this agreement. We will certainly, in spirit with this issue, look further for an explanation, both by negotiators who participated in the development of this agreement and by the Austrian Government which has similar agreements with other countries.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3231	Thank you to the proposer's representative. We heard the answers. We heard everything. Anyone else want to talk? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Since there were no fundamental remarks, I suggest we vote in the package, because I have nothing to single out. The specific comments do not apply to any agreement separately. How many are there? 25. I ask you, who is to ratify all five agreements, as it says in the agenda, not to read them specifically. Who's in? - 25. Thank you very much. I find that the agreements, all five, have been unilaterally ratified. Thank you very much, I hereby conclude this item of the agenda and move to the final point. Ad.5. MPs' questions and suggestions before you ask, that I answer, and maybe I do. Someone delivered it to me this morning, and to you, some kind of biography paper, and then everything else, I don't know who delivered it, who's looking for it? I've been writing for the second time. I wrote it without much more resistance, not knowing who I was writing to. poslanik Kadić asked me a question, so I'm asking a question, who asked these MPs here under oath to sign it? I photograph something, it's nobody to me, and it's also a photograph, I'm not told, I was privileged. Can anyone in front of the Secretariat give an explanation? He doesn't have to explain, just you, as chairman, pull it. Don't let it happen anymore that the Secretariat takes the liberty of communicating directly with the MPs, without the knowledge of the Kolegijum, you can't say anything, when I approve you, then you can say it. There is no need for anything, in the future it can be done through the Kolegijum, I ask you that MPs consider that nothing has been delivered to them, and that they use it as a paper as they think it is good, and they can take it away, and they can write certain remarks on the side. There is no answer to any parliamentary questions. They weren't delivered to me. No answer to any of your questions. If it had come, I would have informed you and come in material, and by old custom we ask and they don't answer, well, here you go. It can be answered because no one has delivered it to us. That's a new question now. That's what we're going to say.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3233	Mr. Chairman, I asked two parliamentary questions on September 10,1999. I have now received an answer in the materials three days ago to an MP's question, I don't know if it was read in the last session, since I didn't attend, because, normally, I had justified my absence.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3234	There's a split answer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3235	If the answer is shared and if the MPs are familiar with that answer, then I must express my dissatisfaction in the sense that I am not satisfied with such a response signed by the chairman of the Commission, Mr Ostoja Kremenović. My question was, I'll briefly repeat it. How far did the BiH Borders Commission come with a compensation procedure for RS territory up to 49% as adopted and foreseen by the Dayton Agreement? The answer is very short "The Central Commission on the issue of the state border of BiH is not competent to consider the issue of the inter-entity line of demarcation as well as other issues under the Dayton Agreement concerning the procedural relationship of entity territories". Since I'm not happy with this answer, I'm going to ask a new question to answer. Who is in charge of this, and what has been done so far? This was one of my questions and another of my questions was from the same date from 10 September1999 until today I received no answer, and it was about whether it was a supervisor for Brcko, whether he could extend his responsibilities beyond the borders of the Brcko municipality, specifically I mean the Arizona market outside the Brcko municipality and whether he had the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH and the RS Constitution the possibility of abolishing the border line in the Brcko area. My questions to this day have not been answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3237	Ladies and gentlemen, at one of the previous meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, Mrs Meliha Filipović raised a question about the softening of the visa regime for the countries of the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, i.e. the abolition of the visa regime and the question of what the foreign ministry, i.e. the BiH Presidency, will be doing to soften the visa regime for the countries that have introduced this visa regime with which we do not have an agreement signed. This time I join and ask the same question again, by wanting to ask another additional possibility, or additional question. Is it possible for the BiH Council of Ministers to provide us with a review of all the countries with which we have a signed visa regime and what is the amount of visas charged by BiH, i.e. the reverse amount of visas charged by the countries for which we should receive the visa. One technical question. In the city of Sarajevo, the majority of municipalities, services, have adjusted the issue of certain documents to all categories of people, fully modernised in one, indeed neat way, it seems to me that much progress has been made. Getting visas in Sarajevo, for countries for which visas can be obtained in Sarajevo, was started in almost impossible hydrometeorological or some climate conditions because people are forced to wait hours and days on the streets without any arranged facilities and I do not know at this time 19 to whom I refer this question. Who is responsible for waiting for visas in one of the BiH embassies to arrange it in a way that can satisfy the issue of an average BiH citizen? It's one of the things that seems important to me. If we are already exposed to some kind of long-term humiliation and inability to get a visa, then at least let us get that thing started, to arrange it in a way that would suit a human dignity for the citizens of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3238	Thank you very much. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3239	Dear gentlemen, I'm asking the next question. Why is it not and when the text of the BiH anthem will be finished, and I also suggest, I propose that a competition or ad for the BiH anthem be called out of need as soon as possible. I witnessed a ceremony where people sing different songs, and it's necessary that we have an anthem text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3240	And the most important thing is that it sounds consistent. Thank you very much. Here, we've heard this question. Can I ask you a few more questions? Thank you very much. Here, you see, I apologize to the representatives of the information funds, we said that at three o'clock we would finish this little because of the Council of Ministers of BiH for being a little late... Thank you very much. I'm closing the session. The seat is closed at 3:20 p.m. 20 Gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I suggest we continue our work. I ask the MPs to take their seats. We have 22 MPs, 7 from the RS and 15 from the Federation of BiH present in the hall. I have been informed by the BiH Council of Ministers that they have given their opinion on certain amendments, but have not given an opinion on the decision delivered to them on refugees in BiH, which is why I suggest we continue working with the 13th session, and I ask them to give their opinion on the decision delivered to them. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers of BiH, please give an opinion on the decision as it is the conclusion of this home. I suggest we continue the work of the 13th session. I would like to inform you that from today's session the absence was announced by Pero Skopljak, Ivo Mijačević, Bogić Bogičević, Alma Čolo, Nikola Špirić, Ljubomir Zovko and Branislava Jovanović, all due to the disease. Ibrahim Spahić, Mara Perkanović and Branko Đokić due to the official route and Tarik Čaršimanović due to other urgent obligations. Before the work begins, I think it will not be contrary to the Rules of Procedure, I was asked by the HDZ MPs' Club to verify the mandate in the Constitutional Legal Commission due to the inability of the quorum, Ljubomir Zovki, who replaced Mr Jadranka Prlić. You know for what reasons Mr Prlić resigned from the parliamentary term and I ask you to verify that mandate, it will not bother us to verify that mandate before the beginning of this work. There are 23 people present in the O.R. Please, I ask you, who's in favour of Ljubomir Zovki verifying his mandate as a member of the Constitutional Commission of the HDZ MPs? The mandate has been unanimously verified and I find that Ljubomir Zovko has become a member of the Constitutional Commission and I congratulate the gentleman, however, the gentleman is gone, so we will do it another time. The members of the Kolegijum propose unanimously that today we ratify the Treaty on Loan between the European Community and BiH, which is of an urgent nature, below the 13th session, since yesterday we had ratification of the Treaty, this contract was delivered today by the BiH Presidency, so please also, before we move to this point to ratify the loan agreement between the European Community and BiH. Can the Council of Ministers of BiH or does anyone want to explain this urgency? Minister Kurtović will give a brief explanation. 21
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3242	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of the overall assistance of BiH, the European Union, i.e. the European Commission, pledged a 60m-euro aid in BiH in 1999, of which 40m euros is a grant and 20m euros is a loan. The credit has one single purpose, support for state and entity budgets and at the moment, when the economy has not yet reached the desired level of development, thus overcoming the situation difficult with the financing of debt services of other social funds that have problems because the economy has not yet started working in the extent to which it was expected. This loan, i.e. this grant was conditioned on certain reforms to be implemented, primarily stand by the arrangement, the start of a small privatisation, the establishment of an institutional audit, both at the level of the Federation of BiH and RS, and at the level of the state, by returning the loan to the European Investment Bank, which was taken before the war for the dispatch network in the power system of BiH and these preconditions, in practice, we only met some 3, possibly, 4 weeks ago. The BiH Council of Ministers approved the acceptance of the 40m grant and approved a 20m-euro loan and referred to the BiH presidency. Due to the impediment, the BiH Presidency has not been in a position in the past 15 days to consider this loan agreement, so it has done so today and has therefore been asked to ratify in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, since the European Commission has asked for all this procedure to be completed by 2 December, because this is their deadline for the actual payment of these appropriations in this year. In this regard, it is also an application from the BiH Council of Ministers for the BiH Presidency to ratify the contract, to be operational as soon as possible and to use both grant and loan funds in this fiscal year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3243	Thank you, Minister Kurtović. I ask the MPs, does anyone want to ask or comment on this ratification? poslanik Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3244	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, while respecting what Mr. Minister, I suppose on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, has given us an explanation and fully respecting his words, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, regardless of the reasons given, I do not think they have obtained the conditions for us to discuss this seriously at Parliament's today's session, which is, moreover, the further request of this Parliament by the SDP MPs to come forward with the full information on the overall borrowing of BiH and since you know that the Work Programme has accepted that this information, too, on our dissatisfaction, is accepted that this information is only at the end of the year, bearing in mind that we have demanded that this kind of a major economic issue, and also politically, if you will, should be discussed in time. We believe that by any chance, we have acted in accordance with our request to get the conditions for discussing this today in the manner that Mr. Minister has suggested. Given the fact that Parliament has not been able to, from the Dayton Agreement to today, 22 that it has a quality discussion based on information that speaks about what we have in the Work Programme for the 12th month, I would like to inform Parliament and ask you to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministry to prepare for us the information already in the Work Programme, to transfer it for the earlier and parallel with this information to the ratification, possibly, of the contracts that are ahead of us. If that information can be provided earlier, we are prepared to take the meeting today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and whenever it is necessary, without a break, without interruption, to approach the discussion of this information and based on the fact that we are also discussing the ratification of these contracts. I don't think what I'm saying is just a formal nature, but that we are finally, and I'm very glad that we've come to such issues, because we all know that without serious access to this subject, there's no way that this winter is even better, and I wouldn't be talking about spring now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3245	The BiH Council of Ministers discussed this issue that MP Lagumdžija had now set before and before the request at this house, and in this sense, the BiH Council of Ministers adopted information on BiH's duties in July, which ended in 30.06, and the conclusion was to refer to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, both at home. Since the same question was asked yesterday, I, as soon as I arrived from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, sent the information directly from my cabinet and I do not know if the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat has received information in three languages, so please know. Therefore, neither the BiH Council of Ministers nor this ministry escapes that information. The information is to the end extensive, clear and we want to talk about it, and that the general public has insight as far as and how much BiH is in charge. In addition, I would ask MPs to ratify this contract this time, however, here's why. However, it is the end of the year to express a certain amount of seriousness towards the European Commission. Significant assets are obtained as a grant, because 40 million euros is a grant, and 20 million is a loan. It is only, unfortunately, that we have obtained the conditions that they gave us from the European Community to be operational and we have not been able to put those resources on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly before to discuss this loan, because we have not met all the conditions we had until then. One of the conditions that has been, among other things, is the introduction of KM in the entire BiH area. It would be unserious if we showed up here, and we didn't get the conditions they set us up before that. So I would ask, not running away, and that information, please, if you knew it was done, it would be delivered to you, but I would ask that, however, this contract be ratified.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3246	Thank you very much, Minister Kurtović. I'm now informed, you may give up on this when I say so. I've been informed that the information on the assignment arrived here this morning, it's about extensive material that can't be multiplied today because it's very large. At the next session, I suggest we put it on the agenda, so first after this, and if there's a need, both of us, I don't know who's first now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3247	Mr. Chairman and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, 23 It is not a matter of using one ugly word, doing information and discussion, it is a matter of approaching the whole issue of BiH's borrowing in a constructive way that would produce results, not of informing ourselves of what has been so far or what is possibly agreed. We adopted the Work Programme on which the BiH Council of Ministers will give the BiH Council of Ministers by November '99, in November, we have now learned that this information is ahead of us, that we are not inserious, Mr Banjac, in every serious country in the world, as we wish to become, one such information requires a little more time to discuss, above all, in the relevant parliamentary committees and then to give time, to possibly carry out some broader consultations expertly. Don't get me wrong, but I have an obligation to the voters and to some structure that I have as an MP, however you like, we have our own advice on these issues and we want to have a broader, more serious debate that would result in a little more, to say, transparency being introduced, of which I am sure the Council of Ministers of BiH does not run away, even the contrary. I would ask you that for the next session of the PSBiH House of Representatives, we do have that information and that immediately, as they say, we get everyone so that we can have a serious debate for the next session of our home and for that session the candidate and the question that you have now given us, because otherwise I want to inform that we will, at least, be restrained which, knowing our Rules of Procedure, is the same as we are against, but we will be restrained for symbolic reasons, if the Council of Ministers of BiH today, and I don't think it achieves anything. I also want, for the sake of the public, to draw attention to the fact that, as this is said, it is necessary to help overcome the various life problems that are present here now, to draw attention that these life problems are not solved in this way. We are precisely in order to stop the policy by which Parliament is brought before the final act, we want things not to happen this way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3248	Your suggestion is to conclude that it will be at the next session of each other. Is there anyone else willing to discuss this matter, Tokić, so there is no consensus on the position in the club, okay. I thought you were speaking on behalf of the club because Tokić had called before, because I would have given Tokić a word before, because he had answered earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3249	Chairman, regardless of all your gymnastics you're spending here as chairman, stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3250	It's not a sports hall. Use another term.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3251	Stick to the Rules of Procedure, which you particularly insist on when, for the sake of your daily political interests, you have the need to exercise a certain political will in Parliament. In this context, you have the custom to say that the Rules of Procedure does not say anything and that first it should end the 12th session and begin the 13, is that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the order which you state in terms of giving a word, and especially there is no way that you can comment on whether or not something... 24
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3252	Focus on the discussion, I warn you, I'll take your word for it, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3253	You don't take your word for it. I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3254	Ambassador Vito Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3255	You're today...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3256	Which is an injury, please specify a member.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3257	Let me finish my word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3258	I'm not letting you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3259	You have a agenda item that isn't scheduled to continue the session at all. You are procedurally, Mr. Chairman, in order to even bring about a debate on this, a change in the previously established agenda on the date when it was, not with your will and your assessment that this would be interesting to put on today. If you would like to continue the session and discuss this item on the agenda, I ask you to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure not only in the context of giving a word, but also in the context of changing the agenda of the 13th session, because this point does not exist in the established agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3260	There is, sir, a point of ratification of the agreement, it exists in the 13th session, read it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3261	Please, we can call off the session, we can do...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3262	You can't break up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3263	We can break the session and define exactly how the agenda we had was established. At the same time, I ask you, as chairman, to protect this Parliamentary Assembly from arbitrary behavior. This morning it was scheduled to continue session 25 at 11 o'clock because the BiH Council of Ministers did not say after several weeks about the amendments, so you moved 12 hours to make sure Mr Kurtović most serious today that we should work seriously, because the BiH presidency was finally ready, after 15 days of his trip, to ratify this agreement. In this context, I ask you to stick to the agenda, stop, I will repeat exactly the words, it, in a political sense, will be precisely understandable to the majority of citizens, the gymnastics that Momčilo Krajišnik has been doing in his time in parliamentary life and lead this high home in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3264	Sir, as I lead the House, it will be decided by the MPs, not by you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3265	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we are today, on the proposal of the chairman, to continue the 13th session first. The 13th session had its agenda established and was interrupted, i.e. one point remained to be completed. So I would suggest we act like one and end the 13th session with what we left yesterday. I know this is urgent, I know this is also urgent, because most of the funding is donations, and we know what the situation is. I also know that it is unacceptable that it is not given, or not given, answers to questions asked by SDP MPs and, practically, when we ask this, we say that we have that information. So, not to raise tension today, I suggest that we simply finish the 13th session as it begins, and I don't think this will be late for December 1st when the next session of the parliamentary house is scheduled.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3266	In line with the Interim Rules of Procedure and after these discussions, I ask you, how many MPs are present, 26, and in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure, by which each MP, therefore the College or members of the College, as MPs, have the right to propose an extension of the agenda during the sitting, and I see that there are some Members who are satisfied that I am saying, so I ask you who is for us to extend the agenda of the 13th session and include ratification of the Treaty on Loans of the European Community and of BiH, so we should put it on the agenda? It's just a loan.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3267	I beg of you, or we didn't get along so well. As for the 13th session, we cannot include anything new in the 13th session agenda. We can discuss putting something on the agenda for the 12th session, because we interrupted the 12th session when we broke up and let us finish the 13th session, and within the 12th session we can discuss this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3268	Ambassador, I am sorry to have to do this again, if I have to read this provision that during the session there may be an extended agenda and there is no dispute. You, as MPs, will plead for or against, but here we will now vote on inclusion in the agenda. Here we have 26 of the BiH Presidency's memo, and here it is, right now, and they're begging to include it. There are 23 present and I ask who's up for it? - 26 26 present. Who's to put this item on the agenda of the 13th session, as a point, here, let's say, last, here, to please you. Here, I'll tell you now, sir. That's the 5th point at the 13th session, under the 4th point f), that's the addition, the expansion of the agenda and can. Who's up for it? I don't see any reason why we're guessing a lot about it here. Who's in? - 25 15, we have most. By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 12. From RS, 3. There's no consent. No problem. Let's go all the way, sir. Are you done, Mr. MP? Can I go on now? Does anyone else have a wish?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3269	I wanted to intervene on the conduct of MPs and work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3270	Thank you very much, here, you've helped me. Gentlemen, we have a proposal for Mr Lagumdžija's conclusion although he did not deliver it in writing, so if I were to behave in accordance with their behaviour, I would now ask for it in writing, however, I will not do it. The conclusion is that the agreement is ratified and put an end to the point, information on BiH's mandate at a meeting to be held on 1.12, it was a proposal for the conclusion of Mr Lagumdžija. There's another one, Vito, I haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3271	The proposal is for the next session, so let's get some information.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3272	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3273	I have a very practical proposal. The chairman of this House found that this point was not included in the extension of the 13th session, about when it would be included and that it would be included let the College of the PSBiH House decide at a regular session and I do not think that it should be voted at all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3274	Thank you very much. This must be a condition for Lagumdžija's MP to give up his conclusion. Are you giving up, Ambassador Lagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3275	We think it's...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3276	You want to vote on it. We have a proposal from Mr Lagumdžija to put this on the agenda of the next session to be held on 1.12. There are those present in Hall 26. Who's in? Six. 27 Let’s spend the vote until the end. Who's against it? The others are restrained. We only have three options for a vote, yes, against and abstention. The proposal was not accepted. We've got it now that it's 12. Vito, if you're giving up the proposal until 12 sessions arrive, that's right, great. We'll use that. We're continuing the work of the 13th session. We were standing by to consider the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum. I am asking the representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH, since they were sitting, pleading on the amendments, and asking the rapporteur to come out and inform us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3277	As regards the amendment to the Law on Immigration and Asylum in BiH, the BiH Council of Ministers today took part in the meeting, in co-operation with the OHR, taking into account the amendments offered by MP Banjac and we came to the next formulation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the assistance of the OHR and the UNHCR... The formulation would be as follows: "all persons who do not have BiH citizenship in accordance with Article 1, point 7. The BiH Constitution and the BiH Citizenship Act within the meaning of this law," here, that's it. If you want in writing, since you submitted the amendment. We hope that the MP will be satisfied with this answer, that's that formulation, as far as this law is concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3278	Thank you very much, Ambassador Silajdžić. Dear gentlemen, you know that, first of all, I do not want to use this for any political purpose, but I would like to inform you and remind you, and those who have not heard and informed you, that I have given up a series of amendments in order and in order to adopt the Law on Immigration and Asylum as one of the important laws for the BiH state and its citizens and peoples, but at the same time as one of the important conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. I'm really sorry that I'm here, I guess, destined for compromise. Whenever someone needs to compromise, it's done over my back, but it looks like it. If that is, gentlemen, in order to make progress in this country, if this is about the progress of this home, I accept, but I have informed you that I am constantly making compromises, don't forget that. Since there have been no other stories, no discussion, I just have to ask you now, since the motioner has accepted the amendment and there is no need for us to vote, he becomes an integral part of the proposal, who for the proposal for a law on immigration and asylum with the proposed amendments and accepted, don't worry about anything. - 25 of the 26 present. One against. 25 for. There's no need to vote entityally, I can see the state is such that it's gone. I congratulate the MPs and the BiH Council of Ministers on the proposal. I am pleased to find that the Immigrant and Asylum Act has been passed. There's something else we need to hear before the point is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3279	My fellow Members, I congratulate us on the adoption of this law and in connection with the adoption of this law, I would ask you today to adopt one conclusion which I, behold, I propose, and the conclusion has the following content. The Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes that, in accordance with Article 7, Article 2; Article 10, Article 6 and Article 13. The immigration and asylum law, which we have just adopted, decides on a special regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH. In addition to this conclusion, which I will deliver to the Kolegijum in writing to pass on to you for a vote or debate, I would ordinarily add that it should be Yugoslavia and Croatia for a start, and then it will be desirable for many other countries to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3280	Mr. Chairman, I'll just remind you, before you conclude that item on the agenda, that yesterday I made proposals to clarify some definitions under the Law through possible sublegal acts by the competent ministries and ask that it be as a conclusion to the Law that we adopted. That was yesterday's proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3281	Yesterday, Minister Kurtović answered your questions. Can you give me that conclusion, if possible?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3282	Sure, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3283	We can take a little break and make that conclusion. Here, the minister wants something, so you see if you stay at the conclusion or not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3284	It is common in practice that as soon as the law is adopted and announced that they are adopted by means of a short and urgent procedure under the law. It is also likely that this law that we passed today will require that certain sublaws be quickly passed and the Council of Ministers of BiH will make, I hope very, very quickly, all these operational decisions, I would, in practice, call them that or a sublegal act without which the application of the law would be quite difficult and create problems both for the public and for the institutions to which it applies, it means very quickly behind this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3285	The BiH Council of Ministers accepts the suggestion and there is no need. We have a conclusion on this point of the MP, Mrs. Rađević. You're asking to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3286	Now I'd like to make two comments. First, I'm glad the law was passed, so my comment can no longer spoil things, but I would tell Mr. Chairman that his great insistence on so-called. Desiring to compromise, I'm not so sure it's productive in this House's work. Maybe other people can make ten amendments, and then give up on nine and say they've made a compromise. Don't let 29 think of it as a compromise in Parliament's work, and if it's such good amendments, I wouldn't give up on good amendments, so it's one of my little half-replications to Mr Banjac. As for this conclusion that Mrs Rađević has proposed, I would like the BiH Council of Ministers to declare itself. There are a number of other sub-legislative acts and decisions to be taken by the BiH Council of Ministers and the competent authorities. It is doubtless the political interest of certain groups to regulate this issue in this way. Is there a need for Parliament to draw any conclusion on each of the issues if this is already a legal obligation for the bodies to which it relates. I don't mind voting, but why draw one thing out of the law now to a level of supreme importance with a conclusion and the other in another regular procedure. It is now a matter of work, and the political reasons and motives really do understand and I think everyone has the right to make such a request for a statement of such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3287	I have to take a chance. Your Honour, since you mentioned my name, you should know so much that I have given, not a series, but two amendments, and that I have written the Office of the High Representative about these amendments and received the opinion of the Office of the High Representative. That means I've respected all the institutions and all the legal means to check what I want, how much I want, and how much it's not in the interest of the people and the citizens of this country. Whether it's called compromise for you or not, I wouldn't comment on it. I was also the one who insisted on the College to see after the letter from the Office of the High Representative to put that law back on the agenda, if it's not a compromise for you, I don't mind that it isn't. It's just that. If it's something to hide, I don't know, I don't want to hide it. As far as the conclusion is concerned, I am commenting again as an MP. It does not stand, sir, that you read the Law carefully, it does not say that it is the obligation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but is said in the mentioned members, quoted by MP Rađević, that the Council of Ministers of BiH can, rightly, and the seas are a big difference. Can and should also be a big difference. Therefore, since the said members can, there is very much need to regulate the matter with a recommendation, conclusion or other Council of Ministers of BiH, so I asked MP Mrs. Rađević for these reasons whether she wanted it to be a recommendation or a conclusion. She, of course, stayed from the conclusion, so please, for the sake of true information, and for your, gentlemen, careful reading of the Law, I had the need to give this further explanation. Thank you very much. Since there is no need here to seek the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because this is their jurisdiction, this is about our wish, or not to recommend that they put it in priority, and whether and how they will do so, I would not enter their jurisdiction, it is regulated by the just adopted Law. So there's no need to ask for an opinion because it's their jurisdiction. Is there anyone else who would like to talk about the proposed conclusion? Please listen carefully. It suggests that Mrs Rađević commits the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Ministers of BiH to act in accordance with Article 7, item 2; Article 10 of Position 6 and Article 13. The law on immigration and asylum, as it is now the Law of BiH, makes a decision on a special regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH. There in those members, should these members be read as well? Who reads knows what it says. I have convinced, says you can exclude the passport regime from the visa regime, a particular state you consider to be in BiH's interest, as is the law. I don't see that this conclusion, it's exactly 30 in accordance with the passed law. I expect the Lord to now respect the passed Law. When you do, you decide.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3288	It says they make a commitment, if they make a commitment, then there's nothing to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3289	We can't vote that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3290	We can consider it, and if you commit us to something, then it's better if he does it right now...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3291	The question is in place. If you allow me, as chairman, to comment. If we make a commitment, then there's no choice. In law, it gives them express jurisdiction. I propose a compromise solution. It is proposed to the BiH Council of Ministers, instead of binding, it suggests.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3292	Chairman-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, I can understand the motivation and need to come up with a formulation that allegedly represents a solution to a situation which, from the SDP's point of view, cannot be resolved until diplomatic relations between Yugoslavia and BiH are established, of course, under conditions when Yugoslavia will be a true part of all European principles, i.e. civilised advanced European countries. He cannot, Mr. Chairman, do not really complain, but this is probably the reason for the inert behaviour of other members of the College such as Genjco, the BiH Assembly, as the top body of BiH, cannot propose something to the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH Assembly can seek, oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH, and in no formal sense should be required, regardless of your so-called. preparedness for compromises on everything and everything, where it is not necessary to place the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in a position that suggests something to the BiH Council of Ministers, it is a mixed responsibility of the Assembly and bodies that correspond to the BiH Assembly, which is the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3293	Deputy Chairman Genjac
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3294	I don't express my activity and I don't count the number of exits for this pay phone, so you'll understand me, but I have some things to explain this time. The law adopted today's law, in the form adopted today at the House of Representatives, says that the BiH Council of Ministers can do so. If we are to adopt a commitment by the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have changed the Law, that means that it must stand in a member that the Council of Ministers of BiH must do so. If the law that we adopted today states that the Council of Ministers of BiH can, we also adopted a recommendation that the Council of Ministers of BiH do so, so for these reasons 31, I think we will approach the vote and plead in this vote in the way it implies.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3295	Thank you. I ask the Proposer whether it is agreeable that instead of the word "binding", the word "proposes" stands.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3296	fellow Members of the Parliament, I am obliged to inform you that by writing this conclusion in the term "binding" and by itself five six times I have crossed and written some other terms and eventually, however, I remain "binding". For that term, I decided that I wanted the BiH Council of Ministers to do it in some way, not to choose whether or not to. As far as I understand it, the Council of Ministers of BiH is indeed carrying out a lot of things that the PSBiH House of Representatives here makes as a decision, a conclusion, a law, etc. However, when I listen to Genjac Gentleman, then, indeed, there is logic. If it says it has to, and we're ordering, then the question is, what's older this term or the law? In order not to be too long about it now, it is best that this term be completely omitted and that it remains the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers makes a decision here and here according to the member. So neither binding nor proposing, but simply making a decision to leave out this term, and a possible sentence, a set of sentences is possible without this term. What I really want is for this Council of Ministers of BiH to do, that is the essence of my conclusion, and a language formulation if it can be such as to avoid both this and that interpretation, simply makes some compromise between the two interpretations.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3297	The esteemed BiH presidency, fellow MPs, guests, This seems to be a good example of changing the essence, I would say the commitment and work of both the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament with the form. We could still consider a proposal from colleague Rađević and ask for a legal word. However, in my opinion, the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged, with or without our decision, to regulate relations, above all, with neighbouring countries, that is his obligation. It is up to us to recommend, order or ask the BiH Council of Ministers to speed up one of the tasks it has had. I believe that he is quite right when he says it would be, and I would find it controversial to propose something concerning the very work of the BiH Council of Ministers. On the other hand, any of the words offered in the proposal or related to the proposal, which would refer to Parliament's decision, is in itself controversial because it is indeed an integral part of the Law that we have adopted. I am only going out to propose as an alternative and offer to Mrs Rađević that the proposal gets the form of asking the BiH Council of Ministers to speed up activities on visa relations or how it is already defined with neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3298	I'm not going to make the point. We'll figure out what we can do. I want the point. It says in the Law that the BiH Council of Ministers can, I think that the BiH Council of Ministers should watch the attitude of these countries towards our citizens and act in the same way. So, if we're looking for something to regulate for citizens from these two countries, then the two countries need for all BiH citizens, because we're the BiH Parliament here, to regulate it 32 in the same way, and I think it's enough what it says in the law, but I am not contesting the right of every MP to propose a conclusion, but "can" for me means that he will look at the relationship of these countries to our citizens. As an example, I went to Belgrade last year to get my documents and only the two of us from the Federation of BiH paid for a different nationality visa, and everyone else passed with ID cards. I want equal treatment to be given to our citizens from all countries so that we can regulate relationships in that way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3299	I fully agree with Mrs. Suad, that's what I've been thinking about and that's really one real solution, that we're going to Yugoslavia and they're going here on equal terms. However, in this conclusion, I could not put that thought into place because the Council of Ministers of BiH cannot decide on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and the SRJ what they will do, but therefore the Council of Ministers of BiH, that we are not going to go into these details now, it is known that diplomatic relations must be established, that a contract must be made on a special visa regime and all of this must be made. I felt that just because the Council of Ministers of BiH should do so, it implies everything else, and I could not suggest that we order Croatia to do so. I totally agree with what Suada suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3300	Dear colleagues, chairman, fellow Members and guests I will not discuss here much, I will only express my reserve to the previous two debaters, I will not explain them, however, as far as the conclusion is concerned, I will only try to help in my proposal to make some decision when it comes to this conclusion. I propose that this conclusion, i.e. the proposal, goes into the next form of voting, supports the conclusion of the MPs, Mrs Rađević, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, etc. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3301	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, MPs, I really want to talk here about the essence of any position or conclusion of the Parliamentary House of BiH. It is not disputed, the SDP stands at the point of view of establishing good neighbourly, diplomatic relations and in this respect and creating an environment where border crossings will be liberalised maximum, but this House of Representatives, including all this willingness to compromise and co-operation and allegedly the work that Mr Genjac has just demonstrated here, implies that the Council of Ministers of BiH is given a recommendation, conclusion, an initiative from the BiH House of Representatives to regulate the border crossing between Yugoslavia and BiH, I am openly asking now that we do not play in gloves. With whom will the BiH Council of Ministers negotiate? On the basis of which platforms will the SRJ government delegation, whose regime is under absolute blockade and sanctions, speak with the BiH Council of Ministers? I, in that term in the BiH Council of Ministers and that obligation, will not participate, and I want to tell everyone who are here, so that I don't use the harsh word here, try to show an attempt to remove this problem in a way that we gave it to the BiH Council of Ministers in power, so those who proposed this initiative here will be able to explain that it is now on the BiH Council of Ministers, and we will, as a matter of fact, discuss that something will be done and nothing will be done. I do not want to participate in the conclusion that in any way will oblige the BiH Council of Ministers to take a step that at this point in political relations in Europe, in relations between BiH and Yugoslavia, is impossible. 33
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3302	Please, I have to, an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3303	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs and dear MPs, I don't know how many times, I don't often go out, because my gymnastics, I don't think I have a long step to gymnastics. However, when I come out, I would like to draw attention to one thing, whether there is any amendment that one of the MPs in the RS does not bring out without the gymnastics of him being terrible. If there is no need for amendments to MPs from RS, please make it clear once that we know that we cannot come to be characterized as compromise or non-compromising. So far, we have adopted so many conclusions and there has been no difficulty voting. You have, Mr. Chairman, to put it to the vote to vote or not to vote, as has been the case for so far many conclusions. Please, you're putting me in a position to wonder if I'm staying here or not and if I can make an amendment or if there's a need or if there's going to be no way out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3304	I am truly deeply sorry that I appear twice and go out for this pay phone, because, frankly, I did not expect after the adoption of this law that there will be problems and that there will be this many discussions about one conclusion that I think, indeed, with good faith, I think it can mean a lot, not only in the further work of our MPs in this highest legislative body, but in general, when it comes to relations that have been, above all, between MPs from individual political options, etc. However, I will have to say some things here that I had no intention of saying, and offered a discussion here by one of the MPs. I mean, this conclusion, I think, in any case, that it would represent one step forward, at least when it comes to one constituent people in BiH or one of the people in RS, but, therefore, here I mean not only the Serbian people but also the other citizens of the RS entity. Here it is imperative to mention, too, when it comes to the neighbouring state of the Republic of Croatia. I, the moment I heard this conclusion, wasn't at all burdened with who's in power at the SRJ at the moment, I believe that through this conclusion we should be making relationships for future co-operation with all the neighbouring countries, and I honestly as to how I view this problem, look, it's a lot easier for me to deal with the SRJ than any other relationship. Therefore, as a Srbin from the RS, I am not even going to be indifferent to the relationship, because I now know how I cross the border, I cross the border, I have enough ID to determine my identification and that I can pass without a problem. Whether I'm going to be in a position both today and tomorrow, how it's going, and everything's going in that direction that I'm going to have to show my passport, and that way I'm going to go to SRJ, for example, it's already setting some kind of limit to a neighbouring country that will never be a state for me in the sense that some here want to show it. It is for me my country of origin, as I consider RS and BiH to be a state. Therefore, in this context, I will never be a MP for me to be in a position much more difficult than the one I am now in when it comes to the transition regime from the RS to the SRJ or BiH to the SRJ. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3305	We're wasting a lot of time on one thing that we can agree on very quickly. As far as I can understand Madam MPs, it should give meaning to this case under this law, I understand it so and I have nothing against it and I would not want any MP or group of MPs to feel so that every amendment of them does not pass, then we will not get anywhere. According to me and the BiH Council of Ministers, it will go as normally as possible in the spirit of Dejton. Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers will, in accordance with the provisions of this law, initiate a procedure to address the issue of cross-border regimes, etc., that is our obligation and we will do so and, of course, we will take into account diplomatic relations and the overall situation and all that is necessary. If we say why I reacted to "binding up", if we commit, then the provision "can" fall. In order to comply with the provisions of the law, it should be said that the BiH Council of Ministers, because this is our job, will launch a procedure in accordance with the provisions of this law to regulate border crossings, etc. I understood that this should be given meaning, it should be given meaning, because of course we'll take care of it when we do it on all other circumstances. Not to waste much time, we have other things.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3306	I also think we have a very simple job and I will try to propose a compromise solution. No, maybe it's funny, I know it's funny. Long before, in the last term, gentlemen, there was a lot of talk that no one would compromise. Now we laugh at the word compromise and say something. I agree they're exploiting too much. Gentlemen, read the law. I again claim that here Mr. Tokić says who he will negotiate with. That's not true. You don't have to deal with anyone. If you had read it, MP, you would know that there is no need to negotiate with anyone about it, because it is well stated in Article 10(6). The BiH Council of Ministers may decide on exceptions from the above conditions. The terms are clearly listed, I won't read again, read them to you. It's not looking for a partner, it's BiH, which is referred to as a civil option, it's supposed to open up to the world, and here it's advocated closure, so let's show that opening. Here's the proposal, so I'm going to ask that I suggest that we don't break the law and say what we want at the same time. It's really enough, gentlemen, these stories, I'm saying this as an MP to welcome all the comments here to the barbeds as a hedgehog, all the views of a certain parliamentary group. Stop, gentlemen, with such attitudes if you want us to live together and build this country as a common state, stop it, I beg you. I'm asking you to stop doing that. We will not come anywhere if we behave this way, and I suggest for this reason, we ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH in accordance with Article 7, Article 2 and Article 10(6) and Article 13. The law on immigration and asylum speeds up activities and enters the process of establishing a regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH. Getting into the process doesn't mean ordering what's to be brought in and running away from it, gentlemen, here? Why are we running away from that? I beg you, here, I've tried to find a solution, I'm sorry, I'm not going to say what I called compromise, but, still, I think I'm trying to find a compromise.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3307	I'm already going out to suggest it and Mr. Silajdžić is to agree and it happened, only to us, Mr. Chairman, to give it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3308	Is this what I read you?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3309	You and I and everyone, Mr. Silajdžić, are all the same meaning, termology and all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3310	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think that after this discussion of MP Banjac, there is something I really want to clarify in Parliament. Here it is said that the BiH Council of Ministers should not be negotiated with anyone, so it can speak unilaterally about the regime for establishing a border crossing between BiH and Yugoslavia. I therefore propose, on behalf of the SDP, that, with this conclusion that you have stated, the following is on the principles of equality between the citizens of BiH and the citizens of neighbouring countries. Which means, on one principle, no individual BiH citizens can cross the border with Croatia or the border with BiH, nor can there be a different relationship between crossing the border from Yugoslavia to BiH in a different way. In my view, this principle of equality implies an obligation to negotiate with neighbouring countries, therefore, if the Council of Ministers of BiH has such powers and the power to automatically establish the relationship of border services with neighbouring countries, I have no objection, but let it be on the principles of equality.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3311	Ambassador, I ask you to formulate this attitude in writing, because it cannot be subdued under these members of the Law, which you write in writing. You can't trick a member, name a member, and we'll do it easily.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3312	Equality cannot be squandered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3313	Equality can be subdued by what it wants, write down what you said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3314	On the principles of equality.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3315	Write that down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3316	Let's finish this. We have a lot of work and important work to do. Just before I went out, I said that the Council of Ministers of BiH will take into account everything, of course, that reciprocity is the first element to be discussed, but I agree, here, and with this add-on, of course, equality, I mean, that's reciprocity for me, but if I have to. In addition to what you, Mr. Banjac, have suggested, and with this supplement, let's do it and we will launch this process within which we will consider all of this. 36
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3318	Please, I'd like to rephrase the previous speaker's proposal now. We Srbin from the RS or Srbin from BiH, have the right to special ties with neighbouring countries. Therefore, there is no talk here about what, otherwise, this law that we just adopted, which is decidently indicated, therefore, in this context, Mr. Tokić's proposal cannot be a subject at all. As Srbin from BiH, we have the right to special ties as Hrvat have special ties with the Republic of Croatia. In this context, I believe that the proposal of the previous speaker has not been established.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3319	I don't want to open a discussion, there are some things that are...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3320	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I'm very sorry, but I have to and I want to deny an incorrect assumption. Nowhere in the Dayton Peace Accords is the subject of special ties between Srbin and Hrvat with neighbouring countries, but it is about the possibility of special special links between entities, which are multiethnic, and I, when I spoke about these principles of equality, talked about all BiH citizens and in return to say something more, in addition to the need to correct this inaccessible quote that is deeply intruding into the essence of the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I, as a citizen of Bosniak nationality living in the Federation of BiH, am very interested in the speedy liberalisation of relations and the faster liberalisation of the border crossing between BiH and Yugoslavia, of course and Croatia, but, of course, it must be on principles on which neither Srbin nor Hrvat nor Bošnjak nor anyone will have special status in relation to other citizens, therefore, the principle of equality.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3321	I think it's out of the question. Mrs Rađević, if you accept the proposal as your proposal for a conclusion, we ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH, in accordance with Article 7(2) and Article 10(6) and Article 13. A law on immigration and asylum to speed up activities and enter the process of establishing a regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3322	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3323	You accept. Do you accept as your conclusion and addition to Mr. Tokić?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3324	I'm going to vote for him and I'm all for him, but I don't think there's a standoff in the passed law, and I don't accept that I'm his author. Because the law doesn't have...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3325	We have two conclusions. One that will be expanded. I'm putting Mrs. Rađević's vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3326	Fellow MPs, Mr. Banjac, as chairman, will be called to good will. I would, indeed, call now on the goodwill of Parliament Rađević in terms of the very substance of this proposal, which shows or determines the supplement proposed by Tokić. There is no formality, but if we were to bring it, that's exactly why I'm calling for you to accept this supplement that implies we're voting on one conclusion that we can see here that we can make a decision that has a political substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3327	Let's take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3328	All he can ask for is a club of MPs to take a break. Now, Mrs. Rađević, let's make a deal. You just said, first you said you were looking for one conclusion and now I'm in a dilemma about what to do. She said she'd accept her conclusion, and then she said she'd accept the other one. Then can we unite if she says so? I have to come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3329	My MPs are asking for a five-minute break. (PAUSE 5 MINUTES)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-23-0.u3330	MPs, esteemed guests, we have 22 MPs in the O.R. We can get going. It's a compromised conclusion. In line with the proposal by MPs Mrs Rađević and MP Tokić, we ask the BiH Council of Ministers to comply with Article 7(2); Article 10(6) and Article 13. The law on immigration and asylum speeds up activities and enters the process of establishing a regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH on the basis of the equality of citizens and peoples. The word is missing. That's what you wrote. I didn't write it. A special regime for the entry of SRJ and the Republic of Croatia into BiH on the basis of the equality of citizens and peoples, this does not bother. Thank you very much, MP. Sustained. How many MPs are in the O.R.? 22. Who's in? 21. Who's against it? uzdržati 1. Thank you very much. Again, I added that “people, ” for nothing, Tokić. You're out now. With this, honourable MPs, esteemed guests, we end the 13th session. Thank you very much. I said I'm closing the 13th session and we're starting the 12th session.
