ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1842	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, esteemed guests, I am opening the 8th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The sittings are attended by 24 MPs from, here is the 25th MP. [[intonating anthem]] From RS 8 and 17 from the Federation of BiH. Part of the MPs announced their absence justifiably, part of it is not justified, which is why the sekretarijat keeps records. At the beginning of this session, I would like to say that we will strictly keep a record of the presence of the sittings and of the leaving of the sittings, and we will inform the competent authorities about the behaviour of some MPs, because it is unacceptable to wait twice as long to begin with as long as we agree, and even there are those who are unannounced, that they do not have as much will to tell us why they are absent. For the session, I propose the next agenda agreed at the College meeting. 1.Proposal of the BiH Air Force Act, 2. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Council of Ministers of BiH, which refers to regular air traffic, 3. BiH Citizenship Act, 4. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH, 5. Review of the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 1998, and 6. MPs' questions. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Does anyone have a proposal for a change and a supplement? Here you go. There isn't. As far as I can tell, no one's answering for a discussion. I suggest we vote on the proposed agenda. Who's for the proposed agenda? 2 I find that the agenda has been adopted unanimously. We are moving to the 1st item of the agenda of the BiH Air Force Bill, and I would like to put the Air Force Law proposal under discussion, given that they are attending, as guests, a delegation of the Civil Aviation Directorate. Do any of the guests have a desire to say something? There's no need. Are there any reports of discussion? Mr. Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1843	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it would be correct not to take a brief look at the BiH Air Force Bill proposal, and to look at more rights for future similar legislative projects which will in one way or another provide partial and unnecessary resistance, and therefore I am pleased to have representatives of these civil aviation agencies here today, the aviation of entities who have made enough effort to pass a law that could be acceptable in today's debate. But what I want to draw attention to is the Framework Dayton Peace Agreement, and I am obliged to say that the general remark is that the Constitution of BiH, Article 3 point 1), but not least j) regulates only the issue of air traffic control, which is in the jurisdiction of the BiH institutions, while all the issues of this domain remain in the entity's jurisdiction. But since the entities have been able to agree despite what this is, I warn, outside of the Framework Dayton Peace Agreement, or the Constitution of BiH, I will vote in favour of this proposal, because entities do not resist, and therefore I think it is good to go out with the legislative projects here to the Parliamentary Assembly where there are problems, where MPs warn, where resistance could be provided, such discussions could be held. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1844	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk? As far as I can tell, no one wants to. I'm closing the debate on the first item of the agenda. I'm putting Air Force Law to vote. Please establish the quorum. 26 are present. Thank you very much. I am putting the Proposal for a Law on the Air Force of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the vote. Who's in? (22 votes for) Who's against? (1 vote against) uzdržati? 3 I beg the messengers, we have three kinds of statements, so I guess we have so much power to plead for one of the three visions. I think that's it. Here, now you're putting us in a very awkward position. I have to realize that 22 votes for, 1 vote against, and 2 abstentions, the first determination of the quorum is not responding, and the fact is that it will enter the stenogram of this session, that it will enter the record and create problems for us. Why aren't you pleading? I don't get it. I must repeat the vote and beg the MPs to plead. Who's in? (25 for) Who's against? One v., abstention? (2 held). Thank you very much. I'll spend it on entities, I think it's represented. RS, for 6. I figure we need most of it. Federation of BiH 16. I find that the BiH Air Force Bill proposal has become the BiH Air Force Act and has been adopted by the House of Representatives. I'm closing item one on the agenda. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the Council of Ministers of BiH concerning regular air traffic I am opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? There isn't. I am voting on item 2 of the agenda, which is giving consent to ratifying the agreement between the Swiss Federal Council and the BiH Council of Ministers concerning regular air traffic. Please establish the quorum. 28 MPs. Who's in? (25 for) Who's against? Abstained? I'm asking the Secretariat to count one row, the other row, and the two of us look, we're not so innumerable. So it counts more efficiently. Please repeat the vote once more. Who's in? (27 for) Who's against? Abstained? It's true now, and it's okay. Thank you very much. I don't have a need, by the voting structure, we see that we have an entity majority. I find that we have agreed to ratify the Agreement. Thank you very much. I'm finishing item two on the agenda. I thank the guests. 4 We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: The Law on Citizenship of BiH I am opening a debate on the Law. I'm sorry, it's a good intervention, there's no debate here, this was a commission adjustment. The law is not disputed as such and no consent has been reached at the College, however, we have an opportunity to declare the law. I'm putting the BiH Citizenship Act to the vote. Who's in? (16 votes for) We have the required majority of those present. Who's against it? (1 one vote against) uzdržati? 16 and 9 is 25 and 1, 26 and short again. And why is that? I'd like to know why that is. I'll repeat the vote. As for patience, we have patience, we can repeat the vote ten times, if necessary. I don't think it's okay for the viewers to follow this session and for the Parliament's dignity to be done like this. Who's in? (17 for) Who's against it? One v., uzdržati? (10 abstentions) I find that we have most of those present. We vote on entities. Federation of BiH, who's in favour? Please, let's vote in a row. Who's against the Federation of BiH? It's nobody. Therefore, we have a passage in the Federation of BiH. Republika Srpska. Who's against it? The law has been passed. I declare that the BiH Citizenship Act was passed at the House of Representatives. We have a debater reported, Ambassador Rakić, here you go. I didn't make a point. I did say that. Did I say one against it? I did say that. I think I said it. I didn't. Here I said now, one was against the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1845	Ladies and gentlemen, you remember last debate over this Law, which has long been conducted, where it was practically required in the package to discuss that conclusion or, as we have suggested, the basis for regulating dual citizenship with Croatia and Yugoslavia. I'm taking the opportunity today, because there's no point in stopping the law on some compromise if there's no amendment, so, for the law, here, you see, we voted today. I suggest through this point, since we have the law now and we can appeal to the law, I suggest the next conclusion that you, I think, 5 all get, I don't know if there's any need to read it. But here, I'll try to read it. On the basis of Article 2.1 (e) of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the PS BiH House of Representatives, the PS BiH House of Representatives held on 27,1999, reached THE CONCLUSION 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives proposes that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Citizenship of BiH, it intensifys activities to prepare a platform for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with the Republic of BiH on dual citizenship, and, after establishing diplomatic relations, intensifys the preparation of a platform for the conclusion of bilateral agreements on dual citizenship with the SRJ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1846	Thank you very much. I'm putting an end to the discussion. Does anyone have a desire to discuss it? There isn't. I'm putting the vote to the vote. Please establish the quorum, did it stay the same? Yes, it is. So, 28 present in the O.R. Who's to conclude? Who's against it? (No) Abstained? (two) I find that 26 votes for, no one against and two abstentions and thus the conclusion is adopted. There's no need to repeat the conclusion. I'm closing the debate on the 3rd item of the agenda. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: the proposal for a law on administrative fees for BiH, as you know, and this law is the second round of voting. The college debated as a commission and failed to reach agreement. One number, one member of the College believes that the Law is in agreement with the BiH Constitution, one member of the College considers it not, and one member of the Kolegijum is abstained. We've got three directions, still missing north to be east-west-north-north. So that's how it is. I am voting on the proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH. Who's in? 16. There is a need for most of those present. Let's vote entityally. Who's against Republika Srpska? Ten. More than two-thirds against, two-thirds or more is against Republika Srpska. Who's against the Federation of BiH? He doesn't mind the Federation of BiH. I find that the Bill on Administrative Taxes did not receive the necessary business structure of the vote and, therefore, has not been adopted. 6 _____________________ I suggest that we try to put in our work some of the elements of mutual agreement on issues where, perhaps, the governments of the entity, or the restoring ministries, should also be made known. You have seen, today may have been the basis that, in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Civil Aviation Act has been slowed, and this has been built by mutual co-operation of entity agencies. I suggest that the House of Representatives, that the Representative Council suggests, cannot be obliged, but we can suggest that the entity governments, i.e. the resolution ministries meet and that, if there is some uncertainty about the original revenues, the fees, agree them with each other, I don't think that it will be a problem if it comes in line to the Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary Council of BiH. Some may argue that this is not a good way to go, but I appreciate that in this new environment it is necessary to make contacts at an inter-entity level in order to get into the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina easier and more coherent. And in that sense, I want, therefore, to help in order to help with this legislative project, perhaps in the autumn, in September or October, we would come to a definitive legislative project. Thank you. Thank you very much. Do you want to formulate that as a conclusion? No, I don't. poslanik Tomić wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1848	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today, unfortunately, we ended the vote on this law the way we ended up, and if this part of the debate had been opened before, maybe this law would have gone the other way. I am not in favour of repeating the things we have done, and on this issue we have completed a round of consultations and the Council of Ministers of BiH has proposed a law, in accordance with both constitutional powers and in accordance with the agreements already reached with both entity governments and with the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2/2 ver A, I will remind you, Article 8, point 3. The finance-related constitution states: “The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will provide two-thirds, while Republika Srpska will provide one-third of the necessary revenue for Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget, except in cases where the Parliamentary Assembly decides on how to obtain income. And this is the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the Law on the Implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Budget adopted by this Parliament, we have determined that Bosnia and Herzegovina's revenues are transfers from entities, external grants and donations from the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank and remain the extraordinary and regular revenues made by Bosnia 7 and Herzegovina. The budget was carried out, through the International Monetary Fund and between the entity finance ministers and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, the harmonisation that was, if you remember, a prerequisite for standing by arageman and entities have put in their budgets as much money as we have asked for them to invest in the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina, accepting that the rest should be offset from these revenues that we are making today's Law, therefore, the Law on Administrative Taxes. The budget also mentions this, and the Federation of BiH gives two-thirds, or 27 million, Republika Srpska 13.5 million converting marks, while the position of "other revenues" is 25 million. So, then, what Mr Špirić is talking about, therefore, is being agreed with the entities around our budget and this Parliament has confirmed it. In that context, I think that today we have all the elements to pass this Law on administrative fees which is important for further strengthening, first of all, transparency and income of Bosnia and Herzegovina, here, after half a year we do not yet have the Law on administrative fees passed, and we have foreseen 25 million income marks on that basis, which is quite a bit less than entities should pay through the formula of two-thirds, one-third. And in that context, I am not, on behalf of the promoter, the Council of Ministers of BiH, and because of this everything I said, I am not in favour of opening a round of consultations that are practically already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1849	Thank you very much. The word has an MP, Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1850	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we have missed one opportunity for the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to take over the constitutional powers that have been entrusted and we have missed the opportunity to pass a law which, among other things, would bring back the dignity and this Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the one that we have, quite unsuccessfully, tried to return to the previous agenda point, begging and proposing that we be somewhere among the few hundred guests who will be observers. I know that any conclusion that I would now suggest would probably not get most of it, so I will deprive myself and you of the inconvenience of voting on my conclusion, but I will propose to the BiH Council of Ministers, or I will recommend to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency that, using new political winds in 2/3 related to this pakt, make a strategy for the original revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that through legal projects, including this Law on Administrative Taxes, and in consultation with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, put it on a hundred MPs. I do not understand, I will be very open, that MPs who have the exclusive right to determine the revenues of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose MPs are, reject such proposals. The entity financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is one option. Different, therefore, direct funding recommended by the World Bank, i.e. the International Monetary Fund, is still an untapped option. I would like to encourage the Council of Ministers of BiH to continue to propose 8 of these solutions, and that this Parliament, in practice, in some subsequent discussions of the legislative proposals, may, however, come to the point where more will take account, if nothing else, and the one according to itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1851	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss it? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm finishing item four on the agenda. The fifth item of the agenda is Considering the Annual Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 1998 Please the Central Bank representative to submit the Report, or if there is anything else to say about... There isn't. And nobody wants to say anything. You gentlemen have received a report. I'm opening a debate on this agenda. You know we're not adopting, we're getting acquainted with the report. The poslanik Divković, then the Messenger Špirić Dear colleagues, I have only come out to express one satisfaction, first of all, with the quality of this report we have and to express our position of the Social Democratic Party Club that the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in our opinion, is the most efficient joint institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is an institution that carries out its activities in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and can, I would say, serves as an example to all other central institutions. When it comes to the report itself, I'd just like a very brief review. On page 20, there is a violation of the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think it is a transfer of money through the Prondej Bank from the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which seems to me, is not explicitly given anywhere here, etc. I also want to commend the activities of the governor of the Central Bank on, say, resuscitating the situation regarding the outflow of money from the National Bank. We are not the Federal Parliament, as far as I am informed, and this is from a 24-pack of public information funds, that money has been given to the Federation of BiH and the cantons at the expense of the Central Bank, and remains with the Federal Parliament and the bodies of the Federation of BiH to determine the fate of that money. That's one thing. And the second thing, on page 27, says that the Institute of Banking will be established and that in April 1999, just as information, I would like to know whether this institute was founded, if not, what is actually, or if there is a new deadline for the foundation of this institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1854	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take a moment. It seems to me that the Representative Council of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in this way, only informs itself about the activities of the Central Bank and does not play a role in adopting or not adopting the Central Bank's Report, but, you see, where the central institutions are, and the issue of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank, clearly defined here and there is no problem, and simply, the role of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's monetary policy on principle... that it is clear and I think that it is necessary to give recognition to the Governor and vice governors on current work, and this report simply points to what the Governor of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina has indicated, in this report, to some fundamental and economical categories of Bosnia and Herzegovina's entities. So, simply, here, I share my predecessor's opinion, Mr Divković, when it comes to this report and true happiness, it would be for us to simply define and make similar reports when it comes to the part-time work of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1855	Thank you very much. The poslanik Tokić, then the Ambassador Čaršimanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1856	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, I would not repeat what the predecessors are, and particularly Mr Ivo Divković said, I would only advocate a concrete conclusion that I would formulate, please, that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly declares this. Given that one of the biggest financial malfeasances detected, namely malfeasances with several tens of millions of marks related to the Promdej Bank affair, related to two high-ranking central bank officials, a member of the Governing Council of Omičević and Vice Governor Backović, and since the competent authorities have launched an investigation into the affair, which, allegedly for various reasons, which I would not like to explain now, is going astoundingly slow, given the number of funds and abuses of positions. I propose that the House of Representatives formulate a conclusion requiring the competent institutions to review the position of members of the Management Board of Omicevic and Vice Governor of the Central Bank of Backovic, given the investigation and the results of the investigation so far, related to the abuse of the situation and the indication of the crime committed. And I ask that the House of Representatives declare that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1857	No, see if they've correctly recorded that we know. 10 Mr. Čaršimanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1858	Dear Presidency and esteemed colleagues, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the primary function of the Central Bank, maintaining the stability of Bosnia and Herzegovina's currency which, as you know, during this last period, has been introduced, and has previously maintained its course very stable, 1:1 compared to the German mark. However, I think we should also express insufficient satisfaction, not to say dissatisfaction, at the speed of introducing a converting mark in Bosnia and Herzegovina's payment turnover. The Central Bank report says that this should be accelerated and that it is on entity governments to pay their payments, be careful, here is the point of their payments, and charges are charged in conversion marks to speed up the process. I don't think that's enough. And I think that we should appeal to all institutions to consider the conversion mark as the currency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to introduce in their payment traffic at the latest by the end of September this year, and that would be one of the conditions, not the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe, that we have a uniform application of the currency throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. I therefore propose that we call on everyone to introduce by the end of September 1999 a conversion mark as the only means of payment in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1859	Please, I'm asking you to help me. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? No, I don't. Please, I'm asking to be delivered to Mr. Tokić's conclusion, just to be delivered. I would like to ask a question to Ambassador Tokić. Would it be, since your proposal, Tokić, is not related to the report, because the point is the report, is it possible to deliver it in the form of a parliamentary question which would be more correct? I'm just asking, I'm not giving up, no, there's no one, I'm just asking. In my opinion, it would be more correct to ask the question of what the board of directors did with it and the team, I'm just asking, please, to deliver a conclusion. Given that the conclusion is not related to the report, I think the conjecture is consensual. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is familiar with the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH. I mean, we don't adopt the report, but here's what Ambassador Silajdžić wants.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1860	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given what's been said, let's first make sure that people are innocent until proven guilty. Secondly, Parliament does not set up the Central Bank Management Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1861	Thank you very much. poslanik Tokić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1862	I am pleased that Mr Silajdžić insists on this principle which I think is one of the fundamental principles of democratically decorated countries, it is that there is no fault until it is brought to justice by a judicial decision. Of course, I would remind Mr Silajdžić that he did not discuss or speak so when one of our fellow MPs, for principle reasons, without a judicial decision, is still in custody. Not entering, therefore, into that element, I agree with that principle, and then I stood up for it as I stand for it now, with me pointing out the political sense and responsibility, in all democratic systems there is a consequential one, not for these things that you speak of, but there is a consequential one, whether anyone can perform a function if under investigation. I'll remind you that Vila Klas, for example, has been removed without a judicial decision. And I have no intention of abetting anyone to be removed here, and I have no intention of delegating this issue to the public, and the gentleman who claims there is no guilt, of course, we will see, will bear political responsibility for those decisions. I wasn't talking about guilt. I was talking about reviewing the position at the time. If the competent institutions consider that it does not disturb it, do not mind, and that the few tens of millions of marks signed in the way they are signed, it is not a fault that they will not have their judicial epilogue, and that position, before the public, in front of this house, will be borne by the competent institutions. So, just to be clear, I didn't impute any final conclusion, just to reconsider. Mr Silajdžić has already declared himself and I am very pleased, I ask that other competent institutions be made aware of whether, under such a large indictment, i.e. under investigation, with the elements of an investigation that has already moved on such a high function of financial resources. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1863	Thank you very much. I'm asking Mr. Tokić to stay a little longer. I'm here to say that your conclusion, Tokić, is, in my opinion, imprecisely. And I'd like to make it clear together. Ask the competent institutions to whom this will be addressed, how, to whom to direct, who are these competent institutions and ask nicely to appoint them so that we can forward the conclusion if he passes. Here you go, Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1864	There is no reason, I would really insist that you read the conclusion, several institutions are involved in the appointment and resolution of governors, vice governors and the Governing Council. To direct it to all the competent institutions, if you do not know it, you have your own legal service that will read the Constitution and correctly define what is called, i.e. select both the administrative council and the vice governors.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1865	My wish was for the conclusion to be as concrete as possible and nothing else. If you're asking to vote, they'll vote. I just wanted to know exactly who he was referring to. So the bottom line is, I'm sorry, is there anyone to discuss? Here you go, Ambassador Kadić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1866	I was just talking about one thing, now I'm gonna... Ladies and gentlemen, as a man who can publicly say that about this so-called. The affair knows as much as it was in the paper. However, I would not like to turn this Parliament into some kind of jury for subjective vision of major or small potential problems in this country. Also, I would not like to accept the logic of the syntagma "supervising slowness", as it seems to me to be a delay in parliamentary responsibilities to some of the other state authorities, even if it is astounding, whether it is slowness and whether it is an astounding slowness. We here today have almost praised the central bank board report, and, on the other hand, in that central bank board, we have people who are supposed to have us delegate to other state bodies today. So, at least it's weird, that one such good report can make the people we're looking for to at least reconsider the responsibility. I am not talking about these two cases that are mentioned, I am only talking about one principle, the principle in which I think we need to see what the authorities of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament are. We get this report today, we don't even adopt it. We do not have to vote on it, we can vote, however, on the conclusion, not at all slow, but I want to clarify things, because, otherwise, I want to warn Parliament and I will conclude with this, we would probably name and individual selection of smaller or larger situations such as this, we could sit forever and highlight individual cases and burden Parliament with each individual case. I would like Parliament to stop at what is its constitutional authority and not go any less than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1867	Thank you very much, Mr. Kadić, here's the replica, MP Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1868	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I have very clearly defined my discussion, and when I spoke about the startling slowness, Kadić, she referred to the fact that I know dozens of people who because of several hundred marks of embezzlement have already ended up with an expeditional quick action by all the competent institutions where they should end up. And in this country, 22 million marks are either not known yet or missing, in the meantime, illegal methods are collected from the cantonal budgets to settle this and the MUP is clear that the indications that it has a basis for a crime, and we are now discussing whether it is the authority of this Parliament that we are discussing or not discussing. I, in front of the public and in front of this Parliament, want everyone to bear part of their responsibility. This is not the usual case, if in this country it's usually the case for you to disappear tens of millions of marks, then, let me not accept it, one of a series of cases, maybe practice will show that in the wings of different structures it is a common case, for the one we've learned, we want to bear responsibility. We're just saying, there are no problems, let the BiH Presidency, let the Council of Ministers of BiH and You 13 personally say that it's OK, it's all right, we're just talking about it to everyone to bear the burden of responsibility. To whom today, in general poverty, poverty, in a social situation like this doesn't mind that on television about counterfeiting, the biggest financial transactions are told by a man who is under serious investigation, let him enjoy it, I am not for it, and I refer to democratic principles that rule everywhere in the world. Personally, I wouldn't want to discuss this problem any more, by, of course, insisting that this, in addition, information on what the competent institutions think. Will they wait for the process to end, let them wait, but let them bear political responsibility, like you, Mr. Kadić, who are so amazed that I am dramatically talking about the disappearance of 22 million marks. My neighbor who worked in a branch for 600 marks with a quick investigation was discovered and the most successful actions sentenced expeditively within six months, and this money has disappeared from 22 million marks for years and is still not even known where they are, that's 22 million marks, eh, that's startling to me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1869	Thank you very much, Ambassador Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1870	Ladies and gentlemen, I must warn my colleague Kadić that the Central Bank's work report is not a report on the work of the Vice-Governor, but on the work of the Central Bank, as monetary institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I think that this, as an MP, makes a serious sense that we are all seriously engaged in, and here, to return you to the first point of the agenda, including Bosnia and Herzegovina in the central initiative, international integration flows, until we take a decisive fight against crime, there is no way that, as we are, the international community accepts us, 22 million marks, I am not going to say whether the information is correct or valid, etc., but it makes sense that this representative council is looking for sound information from the relevant institutions. There is no such thing as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council cannot discuss and what it cannot point to. By doing so, we also legitimize with those we care about to respect us, that we are, indeed, a democratic parliament that points to what is the problem. The second thing is 22 million cover a lot of friendships, that's Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's her entities, that's us people, etc. The fight for the rule of law is exhausting and I welcome, above all, Parliamentarian Tokić's efforts that, among other things, these issues come to the agenda, why someone is angry or upset, if they are said to be competent institutions, it is known exactly what the institutions are. Thank you, I, as an MP, will plead for the conclusion of Mr. Tokić's MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1871	First let me tell my esteemed colleague Špirić, I'm not upset, I'm sweating because I'm already sick, and that's two different things. 14 Secondly, let me tell you, I will not be able to vote in favour of this conclusion, not because I am here to protect crime, but because there are certain legal formulas that I can allow myself to express on the basis of any newspaper and any knowledge from the papers, and these legal formulations are the following. Why do I have the right to say that a criminal case is being committed, the initiation of a criminal act that precedes it, but the knowledge that a crime has been committed? I personally don't know, I have no idea about it, I can only trust Ambassador Tokić on his word now, that he knows more than I do, and that's not questionable. I'm just saying that I could vote for this conclusion and that I'd like to rephrase that we don't lose our dignity, like Parliament, because we already prejudge that someone should be prosecuted, and I don't know about it, now I hear it from you, if a criminal trial is initiated, then, why are we looking for a criminal trial, we can support, then I got the guilty conclusion. The conclusion says this: - The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the competent institutions to review the position of members of the Governing Board of the Council, Omičević and Vice Governor Backović, in connection with the Promdei Bank affair, and the ongoing investigation, it says here, and criminal phenomena related to the abuse of the positions and responsibilities of these officials, to me this, forgive me, does not sound. Please make this right so I can put it to the vote. Please don't make anyone angry, we're the Assembly here and we have to work and we need to judge someone or not, but I'm not up for it. I'm not up for it. I will poštovati the right of an MP to suggest the conclusion of every... Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1872	So, just a little bit to be clear. As far as I'm concerned, the conclusion is not disputed. It's a disputed argument. There is a very big difference between the amazing amount of 22 million and the startling slowdown in this whole case, astoundingly 22 million, but I'm not sure we have all the relevant information that we could classify the work of the authorities so far astoundingly slow. As I wish to respect my work in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and less respect for it by people, I do not want, as a member of the Supreme Legislative Body, to classify a particular case in such a difficult way, not knowing fully all the information available to all Members of Parliament and that is one important difference. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, the conclusion is very correct, only Parliament has to declare one other thing. Is there another case, bigger or smaller, always going to suggest such a conclusion, and on the basis of that, I'm not sure, always enough information like many in this room don't have enough information about this case right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1873	I thank Ambassador Kadić. The ambassador, Dr. You're a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1874	Dear colleagues, 15 On the occasion of the reports we have ahead of us, in order not to have a flatly interrupted debate given to conclusions, I would like one more thing, if we were to run, I would even prefer that we plead. In fact, in the report that we have assessed positively, it is not disputed, and our assessment does not diminish it, I draw your attention that in the part where the Central Bank's activities are spoken of, and especially in the part where the Bank's control function is spoken of, there is a claim, a paragraph, which is correct, but I think this Parliament should be more detailed about it. It says here, on page 20, I quote, literally when it comes to the violations committed at the National Bank, it literally stands -- the latest violation of the accounts of the National Bank of BiH took place in May 1998. Over the next six months, the Central Bank of BiH and the Payment Office have actively engaged in account management, this has been done in a satisfactory manner, however, it is not a state that could be maintained. In November 1998, following talks between the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH, the International Monetary Fund, the Institute of Payments and the Central Bank of BiH, a protocol was signed to provide funds for the remaining deposits of the National Bank of BiH, a full coverage of the Currency Board of the Central Bank of BiH was provided during the National Bank's liquidation procedure. The implementation of the protocol has been regularly controlled by the Office of Chief Controllers and it has been established that it is implemented in accordance with the conditions laid down. - the end of the quote. I would ask that we make a statement on a conclusion that this is not enough for Parliament. This isn't enough in the Central Bank report. What it says here, for me, as an MP, is not enough information. I don't prejudge anything at all, I'd just like to conclude, that we wouldn't find out from the papers, that we wouldn't prejudge anything, that this passage that's standing here, respecting and accepting this here, that the competent institution or the competent institutions are delivering a report from which they're going to explain to us and clarify what this is really about. Namely, what kind of violations are involved, what kind of protocol is signed, and what is the role of central institutions in all of this and to see what it is that opens up these doubts that were previously spoken of. How many millions, I wouldn't talk about how many millions are because different people in different official places speak different numbers of millions. If we hadn't prejudged anything here right now, I'd ask you to do something about the peace of someone here and the lack of unnecessary anate on anyone, to ask the competent institutions for a report on this paragraph for the adoption of this report, and we'll formulate it any way you want.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1875	I'm asking him to formulate himself with the service. Here, they're already ready, just to help them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1876	The conclusion is to give Parliament information on the exercise of central bank control over a period that has been apostrophe here, in line with what is here. Now we can formulate whatever we want. If you're ready, so that we don't fool ourselves, Comrade Banjac, the question is, are you going to be this information, if you want, here, we're going to be very easy to formulate 16 conclusions, if you don't want to, there's no need to compete here on the text of the conclusion. It's about not knowing where the millions are. Someone can conclude in the end, let someone lock us in and tell us it's not our jurisdiction, okay, it's not our jurisdiction and we're moving on, so we'll see whose jurisdiction it is, to eventually find these millions, or to identify who's supposed to find them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1877	I'm under the impression that this is about approaching attitudes, that we're looking for competent institutions, here's to use that term, enlightened the case of an affair at Prondei Bank.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1878	Please, Comrade Banjac, separate those two things, they're completely different.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1879	Okay, I'll be very happy to do that, Ambassador Lagumdžija, I ask you to form a conclusion with the Secretariat because I don't want to guess what anyone said, and I ask that it be done. No problem, there's the sekretarijat. Anybody else want to talk? I, according to the earlier view, am able to put two conclusions on the vote so far that I am here with me, which is the conclusion of the Tokić MP and the conclusion of Parliamentarian Čaršimanović. I also ask Ambassador Lagumdžija to reach his conclusion in the meantime, or he will be ready to read it before the vote. I want him to read it originally the way the MP wants it to. Therefore, I ask that the quorum be determined in the hall to move to a statement, and before that, please, you count, and I will conclude, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has received an annual report on the work of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and will make available to the authorities the stenograms of the discussion on this agenda point. The text of the stenogram contains everything we've been saying. Do you have any objections, given that we are not pleading, that this is the conclusion of this report debate. No need to vote, I'm just saying is there any objections? There isn't. Thank you very much, and I'm asking you to keep that in mind. We would now move to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the MPs in the order proposed. Tokić's conclusion reads: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the competent institutions to review the position of members of the Board of Directors vijeće the Omičević Board and Vice Governor Backović in connection with the Prondei Bank affair, and to launch investigations and criminal charges related to the abuse of the positions and responsibilities of these officials. Is the text identical to what you wanted? Here, look how good it is when you formulate it and say it's tongueless. Please, I'm making a proposal for a statement. Who's to conclude? Thank you very much. Who's against it? 17 Is There a Restraint? 12. I find the conclusion, I'm sorry, by entities now. Who's for the Federation of BiH? From Republika Srpska? I find that in the first round of voting – to vote 14, against no one, abstentioned 12, per entity, from the Federation of BiH voted in favour of 6, from RS 8. The conclusion, therefore, did not get the required majority in the Federation of BiH, is going to be agreed. He doesn't have an entity, and that's why he's going for a match. I'm asking you to make a statement. I would like to read the first conclusion of Parliamentarian Čaršimamović. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives proposes to all BiH institutions and entities to take all activities by the end of September this year to make the conversion mark the only means of payment in BiH. Please, is there a correct conclusion, MP? (Yes) The quorum? (2) Please, who's to conclude? (11) The conclusion did not receive the required majority. It does not have to be “only”, such is the goal of the conclusion. Technically impossible, the minister said. I'm asking the MP, dr. Lagumji, if it's not written, and it is. I'm asking for a little patience, here, now we're going to bring an end to this point. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that information be submitted on violations of the accounts of the National Bank of BiH, that is, the Central Bank of BiH and the measures for their legal and financial sanctioning, as defined in Chapter II.1. Annual report for 1998. Did you hear the suggestion of a conclusion? The quorum? (27) Please, who's in? (16) Against? (No Niko) The abstentioned?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1880	(Speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1881	I ask that Mr. MP give up working more effectively, I prefer to beg whoever refuses to plead, to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1882	(Speaks from place)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1883	Please, the MP is asking for an individual statement. It's business for me to put it to a vote, which is for us to plead individually. I am putting to the vote a proposal to conclude that the individual vote, proposed by Ambassador Lagumdžija, is being voted upon. Who's in favour of such an approach, an individual vote? (11) 18 He did not get the required majority. We're voting again by acclaim. Who's to conclude? (16) Who's against it? Who's being held back? (11) Now we have the exact number. poslanik Kadić, when it comes to me, I have no intention of terrorising anyone alive, and at least my colleagues, honourable MPs, nor do I think of doing so, but I ask you to allow me to hold a business vote and ask that I do not suffer criticism if something is outside of the Rules of Procedure, I would be very happy to accept that I am responsible for what I have done. Here you go. We're going after entities -- RS, who's in? (we have the necessary majority) from the Federation of BiH? (for - we do not have the required majority) The conclusion goes to the alignment. Now, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1884	Ladies and gentlemen, journalists and others present, So I may have used the word “terrorizing” too harshly, but today we never voted from the first. I understand Mr. Banjac formulating very precisely, establishing the quorum, so there wouldn't be any subsequent interventions like before, at the last session, about the minutes. But as the working conclusion of this House, I suggest that we determine: First, the conclusion that the conclusions on certain points of the agenda should be delivered in writing to the chairman, or the Secretariat at an appropriate time and that we do not go by logic - de, agree it with the Sekretarijat, and then create one, at least, a slightly uncomfortable atmosphere. That's the first thing. And secondly, as for the counting itself at the session, I call on the College to, after today's session, organise a better way for the next session only counting on certain points of the agenda. There, nothing, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1885	Thank you very much, I absolutely accept, I am glad that the MP understood my wish, to avoid, as far as possible, objections, and you know that it is really impossible to formulate conclusions without MPs, because, he says, I did not say so. I want to keep a written lead on the Parliament's file, who, when asked, how did it end? It's the only wish I want to respect when it comes to the MPs' position. I'm asking you, there's an intervention here, I'm going to do business right now, and I'm going to clear it up, all decisions, so it's not justified. There was one objection, an entity vote on everything, everything being voted entityally, and I stand behind it. This concludes the 5th point of the agenda and we move to the 6th point of the agenda: 19 MPs' questions First, I owe you, I know we are all tired and indeed it is, I owe you one explanation. Since we still don't have, as far as I'm aware, technical means, that even here, we're transferring a stenogram to paper, so it's very difficult to come to conclusions, but we're using the techniques of the Federation of BiH Assembly, as far as I'm aware, and we're probably not so effective in answering parliamentary questions, for this reason we may not be effective either, but the fact is that on a number of parliamentary issues, those to whom they are addressed, have not been answered, which we will have to analyse at one of the next sessions. I ask you now to ask a question, and I commit myself, along with kolegij, that we will intervene to answer your questions on time and introduce you to the answers. Tokić, then Kadić. And it would be good, while MP Tokić is coming out, it would be good, respecting this remark, which was very constructively given by MP Kadić, and when you ask questions, write them down, write them - deliver them, it will be simpler, they will vote as you imagined.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1886	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I don't think we should go too far with these written forms, so we'll be asked in writing, before we go out. I think instead we should do the form of parliamentary issues in a more dynamic form, that the Council of Ministers, the competent ministries, are immediately responding to the MPs. Of course, for this question that I will ask is an impossible answer immediately, because it is related to the financing of the upcoming summit. Given that there is a wide range of information on the financial structure, financing of the upcoming Stability Pact summit, among other things, some representatives of the subcommittee and the board, are talking about the participation of public enterprises such as Elektroprivreda and PTT in the financing of the upcoming summit, all sources of funds and spending resources related to the organisation of the Stability Pact summit from the competent institutions for one of the upcoming meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1887	poslanik Kadić: Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is for the BiH Council of Ministers, but perhaps for one of the representatives of the international community in BiH. Namely, all BiH institutions, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Parliament, both at home, are quite tightly located on one floor of this building at the Marin Court, at least with its sessions. According to my information, the project to rebuild the next floor of the building that we are currently in and reportedly has already been approved by around 6 million marks. I have a question, what about the project of further rebuilding the building at the Marin Court, where we are now on the floors, or what about the reconstruction of the former Executive Council building, or the Government of BiH? Thank you. Thank you. poslanik Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1889	Given that, according to the previous agenda point, on my astonishment, it is not necessary for the majority to get information about the violations recorded last year in the National Bank, or the Central Bank, since the business procedure is such that it will now go to a consensus, and then will return to Parliament, we will vote again, and then two-thirds of the people of the Federation of BiH will probably not have any political or other courage to be against that report, and then, practically, the information we have asked for at any of the next sessions. Since we all know that this is how I, as an MP, ask the Council of Ministers to give me information about the violations in the accounts of the National Bank of BiH in 1998 and what protocols are being signed to sanction the existing state of liquidity, i.e., the lack of money in the Central Bank, i.e., the National Bank, in order to save everyone together a lot of time and effort, and to avoid dialogue in future discussions, based on news reports. Of this, quite naturally, should not be voted, I, in the form of a parliamentary question, seek information.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1890	Thank you. Is there anyone else? Deputy Chairman, Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1891	Since there is a lot of talk about the Stability Pact these days, and yet some are doing a lot of work on it and because those who just talk about it don't need support, and those who do need support, so that this successful work of today's session and the adoption of the resolution, again, and only by talking about it, I have, as an MP, the need to get into the stenogram first of all, to congratulate all those who have been engaged in preparing the Stability Pact, expressing this support to wish to successfully complete these preparations, and we are witnessing that all those involved in this are doing so successfully. And another question, which is also, in some ways, an integral part of today's session of this House of Representatives, the Air Force Act. There were misunderstandings about the text, in translation from the English version. I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt the conclusion that the text in the English version is a relevant text and that it will be based on a translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-1.u1892	I beg, since the parliamentary questions are, I apologize, Halida, but it's impossible, I beg the Secretariat, it's impossible to vote at the point. This went into the stenogram, and I can't say now that the English version is, 21 though there's no slowness. It went into the stenogram, I can't put it to a vote, that's clear. Please, does anyone else want to ask? Thank you. I'm closing the 8th session. Thank you all. Please, members of the Secretariat and members of the Kolegijum, meet me at my office right now. The session ended at 4:15 p.m.
