ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1439	Dear Members, esteemed guests, I am opening the 5th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and immediately to inform you that the meetings next to the MPs are also attended by Mr Izetbegović, then, the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe, Mr Peter Blocer, rapporteur of the Political Affairs Committee, and Mrs Hanhe Glonderborg Lankhovt, rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Let me first of all invite Mrs Mediha Filipović to welcome guests from the Council of Europe on behalf of the parliamentary delegation and say a few words about this mission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1440	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very special honor for me to welcome among us today our dear guests from the Council of Europe, unfortunately I do not see Mrs. Hanika Heldenburg Lankot, but I am publicly aware of all her work and everything she has done for Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the chief rapporteur of human rights from Bosnia and Herzegovina and especially the esteemed Mr. Pitar Blocer, rapporteur of the Council of Europe for Bosnia and Herzegovina in front of the Political Affairs Committee. Let me apologize to Blocer, we've forgotten that we have guests of the Švajcarac, and they don't count time for minutes but seconds, and I know he's in such a hurry, so on behalf of all of us, I apologize for this delay. I had the privilege and privilege of attending a visiting delegation in front of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the Council of Europe attending a meeting of the parallel assembly of the Council of Europe, where a report on the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina was submitted, and these reports as major reporters were submitted by Mr Blocer and Mrs Heldenborn. At that meeting, Mr Vestendorp, as well as three members of our Presidency, spokes were agreed and we all had a strong consensus that we want to be members of the Council of Europe, that we want to be members of that Union, and I must say as members of Parliament that we also have the exclusive support of the President of the Council of Europe, from our main reporters as well as from many members of the Council of Europe. So my message is that, as we are told, we will be accepted at all, is the question whether we are part of Europe, and in the report one of the first sentences was Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of Europe, and its citizens are Europeans. 1/2ag 2 So now it's up to us, it's not a question of whether we'll be admitted, it's only when we're admitted. And when we're admitted, it's up to us alone. Let me just briefly taxively remind parliamentarians of the current conditions that the Council of Europe expects us to meet by September to actually be accepted by the end of the year. This is the full functioning of the joint institutions, i.e. the Parliament and Council of Ministers, the permanent electoral laws, the integration of election results, the implementation of not only aclamately, but also the implementation of the Economic Convention on Human Rights, the independent judicial system, the full implementation of Annex VII, the establishment of multiethnic policy throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and full co-operation with the AIPTF and its decisions, the freedom of the media and the independence of journalism, the full functioning of human rights institutions, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Constitutional Court, economic reform and education. Allow me to tell Mr Blocer in front of the Commission, who is the guest delegation to the Council of Europe, that the plan for the implementation of these conditions set out in the Council of Europe, at the stage of the performance, will be attended by members of the delegation who are in Parliament at the Council of Europe and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I really thank Piter Blocer for having patience and coming to visit us is about an extremely honorable man and his reports are full of optimism and is always as a great fumanist ready to acknowledge those age of things that we do to encourage us, and that indeed with a great heart he expects us to be members of the family in the Council of Europe soon. Gospone Blocer, I really thank you for your patience and the rest of us, and I must thank you, of course, in front of all and Piter Iskola, as a representative of the Council of Europe in Bosnia and Herzegovina, based in Sarajevo. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1441	Thank you, Mrs. Filipović. I would like to inform you that there are 30 MPs, 22 MPs from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 8 MPs from Republika Srpska's space, therefore, there is a quorum for the right to decide. You received the agenda, which was agreed at the College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives, in the meantime the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs met, today we had consultations with the College of the House of Representatives and agreed to modify the agenda of today's session, so we have a proposal for a modified agenda of the College of Representatives' House and this agenda would look as follows: 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th sessions, so, as the invitation was made. The verification of the mandate is to be left for the next session as the conditions are prepared at the request of the HDZ Parliament Club, thus, the item remains for the next session, and 2. Review and adoption of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and would have the following points: 3 (a) Report on the implementation of the Budget for 1998, (b) Budget for 1999, (c) Discussation and adoption of the Law on the Implementation of Budget in 1999. 3. MPs' questions. I note that this agenda is agreed on by the College and after consulting the members of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, and this is a proposal from the College of Commons for the Agenda. This is what the members of the college agreed on, there were suggestions for some other points, you know that a large number of questions have arrived in the procedure in Parliament, which are ready for consideration, but what has been agreed on by the College which is and what has been agreed by all members of the College is the agenda as I have read to you. Therefore, it is a proposal on the agenda regarding the College of the House of Representatives. If there are MPs who are going to propose amendments to the agenda, we will open a debate on the agenda and we will put any addition to the agenda to the vote, and if the number of votes of MPs is required to accept that item for the agenda, of course, and that item will be on the agenda. First of all, we will post a debate on the draft agenda of the College. After these opening presentations, I am opening a debate on the agenda and I call on the MPs to declare whether there is any proposal to supplement or possibly change the agenda. Here's Sejfudin Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1442	Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Assembly Club and with the support of the New Croatian Initiative, I would like to present an addition or proposals to supplement the agenda. Before I make the proposals, I would like to express my satisfaction that the parliamentary assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has begun its work, but at the same time I would express my disdain for the blockades that took place in the past period, believing there is no reason to give enough cause for someone not to fulfil those obligations made before voters and voters, both national and Bosnian-Herzegovina and MPs. At the same time, I would like to express a huge surprise for the College's proposal on behalf of the Social Democratic Party for the established agenda. Namely, what is going on: After all the nice concerted speeches in the Council of Europe at the Parliamentary Custodial in Strasbourg, then this nice greeting speech, so after these declarations of commitment to join Europe, I expected a agenda that will be a concrete confirmation of the commitment that we want to enter the Council of Europe. Gentlemen, the agenda doesn't talk about it at all. None of what has just been cited as a condition that is not on the agenda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, its citizens and its peoples remain on the infusion of minimum action, more thanks to the pressure of the international community than the will of elected MPs and ruling political parties. In this context, following the declarations made by Izetbegović, Jelavić chairman of the Presidency Živko Radišić, and here is our colleague, Mediha Filipović, as one of the essential conditions for entering the Council of Europe, it is necessary to at least affirm the agenda set out at the meeting of representatives of all parliamentary parties for the meeting on 17 March. I therefore propose that, in addition to the item of the agenda agreed as a proposal on the Constitutional Commission, the entry into the agenda and the agenda of the agenda, which would talk about the proposal for a Council of Ministers Act, which would discuss the draft law establishing a common police force for the terrorism of inter-entity crime and non-authorisation of drug trafficking, the discussion and adoption of the Telecommunications Act, the examination and adoption of the Law on Civil Citizenship, the examination and adoption of the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the adoption of the Law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the amendment and the addition of the Law on Road Corrections of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the proposal for a law on the conditions and procedures of the competent national judicial authorities on the punishment of war criminals. I suggest that all these points enter the agenda, and if any of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary assembly sees it as an hour-long arrival in this building, and a quick return to its place, I think we should break up with that practice. Therefore, all those who have declared themselves to join the Council of Europe, all those who and whose leaders and representatives have expressed themselves willing to join Europe, and Mr Prlić particularly liked to talk about this entry into European integration, should now vote for the agenda to follow the entry into Europe. This agenda is something that does not enter Europe, just to remind you, to enter Europe into European integration should be passed about a thousand laws, we have passed so many laws in the past term that it would have taken us about fifty years to enter Europe, and now to correct you for that reason we have expressed a skepticism on the work programme of the Council of Ministers and on the concept that is constantly being promoted, if the concept is one declaration, and the second is implementation into action. Today let's break it off, act according to the greeting word Medihe Filipović and adopt this agenda, and the session doesn't have to last one day, it can take seven days, we're ready for this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1443	Any further suggestions on the agenda, please? Here's Ambassador Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1444	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I would like to join in the completion of the agenda proposed by Mr Tokić, which, as regards the legislation adopted on a provisional basis by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the Madrid Declaration, the deadline for the adoption of these laws by the Bosnia and Herzegovina parliamentary assembly was 1 March. Since these laws have passed the parliamentary procedure, means all parliamentary commissions that have declared themselves on the texts of these laws, I propose that these four laws be classified at today's session, which are: - The coat of arms law, 5 - Zkaon on the flag, - the Telecommunications Act and - the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina citizenship.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1445	Thank you. Are there any other suggestions or suggestions for supplementing the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Rasim Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1446	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Izetvegović, Dama and gentlemen, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, I am obliged to say that today the Constitutional Commission has debated views on the deadlines for the Council of Ministers, and on the laws initiated by MPs at the Parliamentary House. In this regard, the Constitutional Commission found that the Council of Ministers did not report on the Laws addressed and that this stopped the need to wait for the Council of Ministers' position when these laws were concerned. However, at today's session, the Constitutional Commission did not even discuss the very essence of these laws and left itself the discretionary right to discuss these laws at one of the next sessions, which of course does not mean that, if the House of Representatives agrees, these laws cannot still come to the agenda of this session today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1447	Thank you, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1448	The Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of parlamentar, Mr Izetbegovic, and members of the Council of Ministers, at the last session of Parliament, we agreed that Mr Prlić would report to parliament on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy and on the engagement of the Foreign Ministry. It was about priorities that relate to the European Community, the Declaration with Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially for the entry into the Council of Europe and the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina today. Mr Prlić then promised directly that he would address Parliament at the next session and that we would receive a written report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before that. I'd like to draw attention that this should be according to the usual procedure, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, to the agenda of the first next session, that's this one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1449	Thank you. 6 As far as I can see there are no MPs reported for the proposal to supplement the agenda, and by respecting all these proposals that have been made so far, we will approach the vote on the agenda. So, first of all, I propose a college agenda, today's session of the House of Representatives, and according to this proposal, the following way would appear: 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 3rd and 4th sessions, 2nd. Review of the adoption of the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with three points: (a) Report on the execution of the Budget for 1998, (b) Budget for 1999, (c) The Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 1999. 3. MPs' questions. I call upon the messengers to declare by raising their hands who is on the proposed agenda? Just until the vote counts, you'll get the word, Mr. Tokić. 24 is total, so most exist, we have to by entities. I beg the MPs from the Federation's space, who's for the proposed agenda? (sixteen) With the space of Republika Srpska that for the proposed agenda? Nine. So, with the required majority from both the Federation and Republika Srpska's space, I find that the pre-existing College on the agenda has been adopted, we will hold the vote until the end. Is there anyone against the proposed agenda? (six) Thank you. Abstained?without the abstentions. We will now approach the vote on the amendment proposals, and before that, Mr Tokić asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1450	The Honorable Chairman, indeed the Interim Rules of Procedure do not have a large number of pages and we could look at the voting procedure on the agenda. There are no two agendas, but each point proposed by any person is put to the vote individually, and then the agenda is determined, the points in the agenda are entered which receive the required majority. I am speaking from the point of view that you have disabled the Social Democratic Party in a very non-business and incorrect way to vote for the point of the Budget agenda and therefore I ask that the vote be repeated individually on each item of the agenda that has been observed, that is the business category, and you, and if you want to see the entry, it is really ugly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1451	The college proposal containing three items of the agenda was put to the vote. The proposal has received the necessary majority of the MPs present and the 17 business majority from both entities, so all three points contained in the College proposal may be considered to have received the necessary majority. 7 We approach the College's proposal and the equal approach of any MP or Member's Club, but there are no problems. We approach the vote on proposals from other MPs to supplement the agenda adopted as a proposal from the college. So, we've adopted the agenda as far as colleges are concerned, we're proposing, and now we're voting on complementarity. We had Mr Tokić's proposal that the agenda points adopted for the session planned on 17 March be placed on today's session of the agenda, in part, by MP Alma Čolo, proposing that the laws that were temporarily declared by the High President also be placed in today's session, and given that the proposals are somewhat consistent, I will put these two proposals to a vote in a manner on each agenda point proposed by the MPs in particular. With the conclusion that Mr Spahić has asked to prepare with one of the next sessions a report from the Council of Ministers' Foreign Ministers' Ministers, Mr Plitzic, and we will make a record of this. Therefore, we approach the statement on the proposed agenda points that have been proposed as a supplement and as it has been suggested that we go through this order. So the proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law was passed by MPs at the Council of Ministers agreed, discussed on a mandated commission that did not have a complete quorum, but met the deadlines and conditions for adjective law. Please, who is in order to add a point to today's agenda - the proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina? Who's asking to plead? So 18 MPs are for, there is a need for most of the MPs present. However, we must vote on the entities. Who's from Republika Srpska's space for? So there is no need for most of Republika Srpska's space to put the proposal on the agenda. I don't think there's any need to bring the vote to an end. Since we have a lot of points to plead, I ask you to make a statement about this suggestion, the next proposal is - Consideration and adoption of the law on the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the Law which, on a provisional basis, has been declared by the High Representative. Please, who's in favor of putting this law as an addition to today's agenda? Who's in? Twenty-one is for So we have the required majority and we have to establish by entities. Please, for the space of Republika Srpska, who is in order for today's session to include the Law on the flag? - Three. We don't have the necessary majority from Republika Srpska's space. So the proposal was not accepted. 8 The next proposal is to consider and adopt the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law which also provisionally declared the High Representative, who is in favour of supplementing the agenda? - 23. We vote on entities. Who's from Republika Srpska's space to supplement this point? - Three. So we don't have the necessary majority, neither is this proposal accepted. The next proposal is Consideration and adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act. The law was also declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, who is to supplement the agenda? - 23. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? And this proposal was not accepted, it did not receive the majority of votes required by entities. Next proposal to consider and adopt the Telecommunications Act. It was also temporarily declared. Who's for this addition to the agenda? - 22. We have the required majority. From Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? - Three. We didn't get the necessary majority. The proposal was not accepted. The next proposal is the draft Law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and drug trafficking. A law proposed by MP Zlatko Lagumdžija. Who's in favor of supplementing the agenda with this point? - 18. From Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? - Three. We didn't get the necessary majority. The next proposal is the Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A law proposed by Tokić and Divković MPs. Who's in order to complete the agenda on this point? - Ten. There is no need for majority, no need to vote on entities. The next proposal is a proposal to amend and supplement Bosnia and Herzegovina's travel documents law. Also, a proposal delivered by the Tokić MPs. Who's up for this proposal to be in today's session? - 12. There's no need for a majority, we won't vote on entities. The next proposal is the Proposal for a Law on affirmation, preservation and protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence, the international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the field of education and education. The bill of law was delivered by MPs to Ćeman Mirsad. Who's up for this proposal to be in today's session? - 14. 9 The proposal does not have the necessary majority, we will not vote on entities, for 31 MPs are present. The next proposal is a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions on their status, conditions and method of use. The law was delivered by the Council of Ministers in agreement, in fact translated into Decision. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with That's also the proposal for 17. The proposal has been submitted in the light of the Decision to the Members of Parliament. Unless it is contained in the proposal for an MP, I am withdrawing the vote. Thank you. So, the proposed agenda points that were proposed for the addition, we held a vote, and that exhausted the proposals on the completion of the agenda. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda: 3. And four. Mr. Neimarlia reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1452	Ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this agenda of today's session, we have been deaf about the conclusion that we adopted at this House's meeting in February, when we made a commitment to take within the appropriate time to consider the initiative and proposals of the laws that are in full procedure. I therefore suggest that the 6th session of this House be scheduled in 15 days and be taken into consideration in the consideration of the initiative and the proposals of the laws that we have spoken of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1453	Thank you. So, we have a proposal from Parliamentarian Neimarlija in the form of a proposal to reach a conclusion of the House of Representatives and I will put this proposal to the vote before I move to the 1st point. Let me remind you, to recap, this is about one of the final meetings of the House of Representatives, we have indeed reached the conclusion that all the initiatives of the laws and proposals are put on the agenda of the next session, that is, in the record, we were aware of that in the College. However, we did not achieve agreement on the College to put it all on the agenda. But here's a suggestion that all of these points -- that in some way respects the House of Representatives' decision, would be scheduled in the next 15 days for the next session where all these points would be on the agenda. I suggest that by raising our hands, we state who's behind this conclusion? - 19. We have the required majority. We'll do a vote on the entities. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour of this proposal? - Three. Therefore, the conclusion did not receive the necessary majority per entity, with the majority of MPs present needed, but without qualified majority of MEPs per entity. 10 Let's go to the 1st point of the agenda. This is one of the conclusions that is timed to schedule a session in the next 15 days. So it doesn't have to mean that this session is in agreement with the rejection of this conclusion, it can be scheduled in the next two days. We're moving to the first item of the agenda. 3. And four. Text of the record of one and the other sessions you received. I call upon the MPs to make their comments and suggestions on the record. Mrs. Suada Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1454	On page 2. The minutes, at point one, there's something wrong with the number of MPs who voted. It says that 21 MPs voted for MP Per Skopljak, 15 of them from the Federation territory and 8 from Republika Srpska territory, that's 23, so I would ask that this be brought into line. Secondly, on page 4, we have the same case at the beginning of the website to confirm the appointment of Neven Tomić as prime minister's chairman, with 20 MPs, 13 from the Federation territory and 6 from Republika Srpska territory, which is 19. Third, point 5. - The election of delegations from the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the same page, I do not agree with the way the delegation is, or MPs from the SDP, which is why they are - what they have proposed. It says that MP Suad Muminagić, on behalf of the SDP of BiH, SDBiH and the New Croatian Initiatives, stressed that they were not allowed as opposition parties to participate in proposing members to elect BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegations to international organisations. In addition, it should stand, and remember that we talked about it at a pay phone, MPs from these parties asked that a member of the opposition parties should be included in the delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In the next position, MPs from those parties are said to have left the session during the debate. We did not leave the session during the debate, we participated in the debate, but when it went to the vote - so before the hearing - then we left the session. Otherwise, we were prepared to continue to participate in the debate and to give our argument. It's about the third-session minutes. Can I have the fourth session not to go out twice? Under point Ad-1. On page 2, which states who discussed the National Anthem Act proposal, I was released, and I know that I participated in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1455	Mrs. Ana Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1456	I welcome everyone warmly. 11 I have an objection to the 3rd session record. In fact, the 3rd session, in connection with the election of Mr. Pere Skopljak, did not determine that he was also elected. In fact, it must appear in the record that candidate Pero Skopljak, I think, is a legal procedure, chosen with so many and so many votes. The same case refers to the selection of the other Commissions - therefore, the entire minutes of the 3rd session of Parliament. In order to see this difference, I would also ask you to point out that it is seen at the 4th session that the Law is adopted with so many and so many votes. Also, I asked that this be regarded as a technical mistake. But since it wasn't respected before, that's why I called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1457	Thank you, Ana. Any of the MPs have any suggestions on the record? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. I propose that these remarks, which were mainly established - the addition of Mrs Muminagić to the discussion, the addition to the moment of leaving the session, the addition to the alignment of the number of votes and this addition of Mrs Havel to the conclusion that a proposal has passed, be adopted. So, that someone was elected - to be entered in the record. In addition to these suggestions and additions and corrections by Mrs Muminagić. I'll take it from the place of Suada.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1458	You have not stated my objection to the third session, which refers to what the MPs of these three parties were looking for. [[speaks from place]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1459	So, with a request from the Council of Europe delegation, one MP is from the SDP's order. And to be completed as a request from the group -- one MP from these three parties. So, the requirement was for this group of parties -- three parties -- to add, in addition to not being allowed -- to ask for one member to be from these three parties in the Council of Europe in the Parliamentary Assembly delegation, along with this addition. I'm putting on a motion for a record from the 3rd session for adoption. Who's in? - 25. So you need most of the votes. By entities from Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? - 9 From the Federation's space who's in favour? 21. So the proposal also received the required number of votes from the Federation and Republika Srpska's space. We're taking the vote to the end. Who's against this third-session record? Anybody got any abstentions? There isn't. No abstentions and no votes against the 3rd-session record was adopted. 12 We move on to the submission and adoption of the minutes from the 4th session of the House of Representatives. I call upon the MPs to declare who is for the adoption of the logs from the 4th session? - Thirty. So 31 present - 30 for. The record's been adopted. Let's not make a vote any further. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: with three sub-points (a) Report on the Implementation of the Budget for 1998, (b) Budget for 1999, (c) Consideration and adoption of the Bill on the Implementation of the Budget for 1999. I call on Mr. Mihajlović, the chairman of the Council of Ministers to give a shorter opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1460	Dear Chairman, esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to introduce you in the shortest lines to the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and the International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 1999, which, in accordance with its constitutional powers, was established by the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina at a meeting held on 20 April 1999. Budgeting for 1999 was agreed with representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the Professional Service of the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, a prerequisite for continuing co-operation with international financial organisations. This Law determines how the budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 1999, the management of revenue and expenditures of the Budget and the rights and obligations of the users of this Budget for 1999, is planned at 219 million 558 000 and 18 KM and is higher by 20% compared to the established Budget for 1998. Budget expenditures for 1999 relate to the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions of 66 million 72,000 KM. Service external debt 153 million 485 thousand 118. KM. The planned funds of 66 million and 900 KM for financing Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions are more than 15% of the amount fixed for 1998, and have the following purpose: - for employees' salaries 29 million 867 thousand KM, - for material costs and investments 13 million 842 thousand 600 KM, - for quotations for international organisations 2 million 890 thousand KM, - for the opening of new DKP 8 million KM, - for the Refugee Programme 290 000 KM, - for the other users from the 8th Table Review Budget 4 million KM, - for the current budget reserve of 6 million 230 thousand and 200 KM, - for the other budget commitments of 663 000 and 100 KM, 13 - for the service of external debt is foreseen amount of 153 million 485 thousand and 118 KM and 22% of the amount of the established budget for 1998. The planned revenues of the proposed budget totalling 219 million 558 000 and 18 KM are: - revenue from the Transfer from the Budget of Entity 40 million and 500 000 KM, of which the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 27 million KM, Republika Srpska 13 million KM 500 000, - other revenues 25 million 572 thousand and 900 KM, refer to administrative fees, - revenues for service of external debt 153 million 485 000 and 118 KM Here I must stress that the revenues from the Trasnfer Budget entity, which I have read, are not in line with the entities. Entities have brought into their budgets, or the Federation entity adopted, and Republika Srpska's entity has not yet adopted the Budget, less amounts than these predictable ones. So, it is suggested that the entity governments align their budgets as soon as possible with these commitments provided for in the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would also like to inform you that the Council of Ministers adopted a report on the implementation of the 1998 Budget, which practically worked half a year last year and thus the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina came to life and began to be realized. Dear MPs, it is of particular importance for Bosnia and Herzegovina's interest and its entires to adopt the proposed Law before the Donor Conference and the upcoming talks with international financial organisations. That's as short as possible and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1461	I thank Mr. Mihajlović. I'm calling one of the representatives of the committees in charge. Is there a need to be seen? Mr Pamuk from the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1462	I must inform you that the Budget and Finance Commission has not met for the second time today. Namely, she met but she didn't have a quorum. At that meeting, we had a little discussion about this Budget. Members of the Commission who have been present have, in certain respects, different views on the Budget and the way in which it is adopted. Therefore, this Commission - eko for the second time - fails to meet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1463	Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1464	Ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission. We had, for the second time, a successful session today - unlike other working committees - and we discussed the report, i.e. we discussed Budget and I can say thank you to the College of the House of Representatives for accepting our suggestions to change the practical agenda, and to adopt the Budget for 1999, and then to adopt the Budget Act first. We found that there was a constitutional basis for making the 1999 budget. Also, we've found that it's not accurate to the end, and that opens up the possibility of one conclusion that I'm going to suggest. It is not until the end precise way of adopting the BiH budget in accordance with the Constitution or laws, and I think we will simply have to regulate this issue. We realized there was a constitutional basis. Also, the Constitutional Commission did not go all the way into the essence of the budget itself, we left it to Members to plead, but we found that the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives, the Budget Proposal, was given three days ago. We also found the House of Representatives, or the BiH Parliament did not consider in the previous phase any of the previous stages of the budget and we also discussed the details of the Budget, however, these concrete issues of the Constitutional Commission do not favour any of the members of the Constitutional Commission to report afterwards. It is in the shortest, with the repeat that we are pleased to accept our suggestion on how to work in today's House of Representatives, but I propose, Mr. Chairman, that, in the end, the conclusion that, given the lack of clear procedures regarding the adoption of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, either the Council of Ministers or any other body should propose a budget law that would regulate all elements of the way and all the essential elements of the BiH budget and that it be a commitment for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1465	Mrs. Suada Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1466	I now have a question about how we'll continue to work, but before that, let me just say something. Unfortunately, we didn't manage to hold the Finance and Budget Commission on two occasions, yesterday there were four of us, today five of us. Right away, you understand what you will, the SDP MPs were in the full range of both members, so many of us are in that commission. We had representatives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, a replacement and two responsible workers, and we had no proposing representative. And, in addition to the lack of quorum, we were ready to talk about the budget and the way it was adopted, but since we didn't even have a proposing, we couldn't even run some things. It's not right for us to go out with the budget to the session without the parent committee being able to work. I am now speaking to you, gentlemen of the chairmanship, at the beginning of our constitution you had a very hard agreement on the mutual division of the president of the commission. Looks like that deal went down at the beginning of the exam. I just want to point out that fact. Because the budget is one of the most important state acts, whether it was passed by law, so Rasim said it wasn't exactly a procedure, no matter how it was adopted, it could be adopted as a budget, but it's an important state act in which governments fall in the world and it's not an office to have such a relationship, neither the Commission - nor the MEP - nor the MEPs - nor the promoter to adopt such an important act. And now the question is: since we had a draft law on the implementation of the Agenda Budget, since we changed the agenda, 15 rapporteurs in front of the Proposer or whoever was preparing the budget, and the Proposer is the Presidency, did not look back at this changed agenda, I am now asking how we will work. We're supposed to have, we have -- we got a report on the execution of the budget this morning, let's take it so we can talk about it. Now we should have an act budget, talk about it, and the budget law. I think it would be a good idea if whoever is preparing the budget, so I say, and the proposer, would now make it clear and see what act, which order we're going to discuss, so that, since this is a proposal, we could talk about competitive things and possibly make amendments. I mean, without a statement from whoever was preparing it, we couldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1467	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1468	We have only one question, is there a corresponding quorum of the Commission for Finance and Budget Affairs drawn up by MEPs at present. Can we conclude here that the chairman checks, can we ensure that the Commission, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with one good practice, determines and I think it would be correct. Because Mrs. Suade's remark is completely justified. One of the fundamental tasks of this Parliament is to listen to the Commission's report. If there is? I'd like to know. I know it may be too much to ask, but if we are already sitting as a Parliament, we have a quorum, I am asking whether one member of that committee is not present here and, secondly, whether we have the opportunity to hold a meeting of the Commission with the rapporteur in order to be determined by the Commission according to this draft budget.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1469	Thank you. Next came Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1470	Ladies and gentlemen and esteemed colleagues, gentlemen of the chairmanship, I must confess that in the introduction of today's session of the Assembly has indeed promised a great deal. Indeed, there were encouraging words from my colleague Mediha, a colleague Filipović, and it is not disputed that we are expected to behave as much today as possible in accordance with what we call European standards. Unfortunately, this item of the agenda that we are now in and the way we are discussing it does not objectively meet those standards. I think it is really good that we are reminded at the beginning not to ask the question whether we will be admitted to the Council of Europe, but the question is when. Based on this agenda point, we won't be long. Judging by this point of the agenda, this looks to me like it's a question of whether we're going to die, rather than when? We know that we will be admitted to the Council of Europe, I urge you to start answering the question when, through a concrete relationship with the Budget. I think that Mr. Co-President and really gave the introductory notes that, I must admit, 3/3 16 are much more detailed than the material we've received and I think it's quite correct. On the other hand, I think it's unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory for the agenda point as we formulated it at the beginning. I remind you, we have said that this item of the agenda has been named as a condition of one type of package: a) Report b) Budget c) Budget law What we now have in front of us. We have a report that we received before the session, and no one gave us an introduction to it. We have the elements of the law on enforcement to give the same in the form of a proposal and we have the elements of Budget. My suggestion that, following what we are responsible for, that, however little, when we have adopted this agenda, we should try to get some report, try to get what the international community has presented to us, and what Mr. Mihajlović rightly pointed out. We're expected to go to the Donor Conference ready. It's not just the Donor Conference that obliges us, it's the whole state. The gentlemen coming from RS are aware of the fact that RS from an economic point of view is entering a much more complex situation than it was with a NATO coup. The special ties between the Federation of BiH and Croatia, concerning trade, let me say, elements and an agreement that is or is not in force, I don't even know anymore, also introduces us to a completely new more complex situation that we didn't have. I remind you that at the Donor's Conference that is now being held, it is said that two-thirds of the social product will be reached by the end of this Donor's Conference, which was the goal of six years ago, unfortunately, that goal is approximately three to four years away from us now depending on whether you're optimistic or pessimistic. The pay deficit already planned over the next four or five years from year to year varies optimistically between two or three billion KMs, or to be more precise, between $1.3 - 1.6 billion. Foreign investments last year were less direct foreign capital, less than two hundred million dollars, which should cover the payment deficit set before us. We obviously have social unrest around us, we have imperceptibility, we have standing collectives, we have industrial production that doesn't even come to 20% pre-war segments, so I urge you to get serious and try to answer questions that are expected of us, not to adopt material that is ahead of us. So I invite you, then, to try and agree on how to get something that we need at the Donor's Conference, our delegation going in a respectable composition would be as serious as possible and to act, so to speak, this country as what kind of state. Because the money we get or won't get there depends on how we behave here. That's why I'm appealing to you to try and figure out a way out of this. Please, the report that is before us, the material that is before us, called the Budget Law, which may turn scissors relatively simply into two, there are still many shortcomings that need to be debated. 17 I suggest that we agree, to ask, to carry out some sort of preliminary debate, to ask some questions now. I will only run as an illustration of a few questions, that the Council of Ministers records it, that we in committees record it, that this afternoon we are working on committees: finansijski, Constitutional, Commission for International Relations, because here, among other things, we need to see if there is anything that can be done on this international plan as Parliament, not us. I don't know, I'm just setting up an opportunity to do anything to make sure that it gets more serious at that donor conference. So today, we're working on commissions, so we can continue our normal session tomorrow morning on this agenda point and go one by one element at a time. Let's ask some questions now what we expect the Council of Ministers to prepare for us. I'll give you just a few elements. Please, colleague Mihajlović, I draw attention to you, I think you've made a very good point on these two things, and that's what you've turned our attention to, I've carefully written it down myself, that this is not in line with entity budgets. There is no budget of the RS, and there are obligations resulting from that. I also remind you of those who think that some happiness in the Federation is not much greater. There is, nothing is achieved when a table is adopted, but a question is asked what is in that table and how life will go along that table. Just to draw your attention that the federal budget has a planned hole and the federal budget has a planned item to look for new foreign loans that are bigger than the total financing of the joint institutions that we put here. It's serious stuff. Mr. Mihajlović rightly pointed out that 22% of the budget is now higher than planned last year. Be careful, it's planned! The truth is even more tragic, over 100% larger than what was realized last year. Issuing, if you take the report that we got today and planned this one, the detachment of foreign debt service, you see that in this year we are expected to double the detachment of foreign debt than we realized last year. I'm afraid these are very big things to get over them so easily. So I appeal once again that by not politicizing this, we try to record some questions today that we are well-intentioned by colleagues Kurtović, Tomić, Silajdžić and others, to really try to get to something that will make you more serious at the donor conference. Niko of us are interested in ending it the way it can end. We're interested in doing something right now. I'll only tell you what we expect in this. Here is the key and capital issue - the foreign debt service issue. Let us know what the problems are. And in the end, what if when we adopt this, does it make any commitment to entity budgets and how? If he doesn't commit whether we're calling for him here, what's it about? There are a lot of things here, here it is very clear and precise that in 1999 there will be no loans to finance expenditure from the budget, which is a great thing and that ultimately we are bound by international institutions, and the question is who will be taking it, somewhere else we will be taking it, if we have a vision of it. We here have something that is unacceptable to stand in the Law on the implementation of the budget of a normal country in which the retailer is hiding behind the ministry of power, that's what the Ministry told us, if the entity isn't responding to the Presidency for it, but the Ministry, and 3/5 18, we'll definitely change the Ministry now, that they're tailoring over and over again, etc., these are too big things that we could do so. Please, there's a question here in Article 9, it's a small member, says: “The means of service of duties are not maximum.” You know what that means, it means that we adopt the law, which says, "This is what we planned to pay for, but it's not all. Who can do more, and don't ask us about it. I hope you ask the minister." What do we have from the minister we ask, and the man says, "Don't do me." So if we know how much we need, if we know how much we can, what we need to do. Zaitm here in article 18 is very clear and precise that mechanisms will be created that will oblige the entity's automation in filling the BiH budget in the context of foreign debt service. What about that mechanism, to be told, they exist. It would be really encouraging for me to hear that it exists and that it does. Since we have established the agenda and the report, please report on last year, there are indeed things that are, to say the least, worrying and some of them are and projected in the following year. Just to draw your attention, last year, in the report, I have now seen from the report that the Presidency and the gentlemen are chairing and chairing, so 6 people with their services have cost five times the total parliament. I think it's perfectly natural, given how much Parliament has worked. However, it is not something that should be a natural condition. We are now correcting it by planning this year, that the six of them will only cost three times as much as we all do together. I think these are a little more large things that could be crossed by the principle of “clain Klajn to us, so I said, adopt!” Here Parliament should also plead to one irresponsible relationship, in the extreme case of the International Community towards this institution and this budget, and according to what is expected of us all. There's also the interresponsibility of the international factor for what we've been brought into this. Let the gentlemen tell us that Parliament stands behind them. If not, and if they don't think so, I, as an MP, think there's a responsibility here for the international community that we've been brought into this situation. They can't handle things by sending us a letter and saying in five days you're going to the Donor's Conference, just come, it's important that you adopt some paper. That's not how you do it. If they want to train us to become people who behave according to European standards, then it's not trained like this. Maybe we deserve it, but let's see, there's part of it there and responsibility on the other side. Then, please, here in Budget, there are items that are simple for me, and I don't want to go into all of them, and then we'll talk about them, but we just need someone to answer us in front of the promoter. I understood by the Constitution, because the proposing presidency and I really thought that Mr Izetbegović came here in the position of the promoter, it made me happy. However, when we started talking about this, Mr. Izetbegović left, which I am sorry, so now, I don't know what constitutional position of the promoter to this, or the Ministry will do it again, when we don't have what is under the Constitution, then the Ministry will say. It says here in this budget that we will literally go for the refugee programme, I don't know if this is a mistake, it says here "for the program of the refugees that 290,000 KM will be planned this year," for the BiH-level refugee programme. Is that a mistake? 290,000 marks this year. If it's a mistake, who's responsible for the mistake. Is that what this is about? 290,000, whatever you want, 19 KM for the Ministry in which Mr. Rečica, I see her in charge. So here we also have that the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments is going to cost us in this year 200 thousand or thousands of marks, to attract foreign investors with an agency that's going to have 200 units, thousands, thousands of marks in the budget, so that doesn't need to be done, people. If someone thinks they should make central institutions have boards and take one off, one puts on, then they don't need a board or an institution like that. So they need institutions that either are or aren't. If they're not, we know they're not, there's no, there's no item. I don't insist on having them or not -- this much or so, it's a matter of a normal debate that should exist, and if there is, then there is. And there are such questions, I could be here, this is the base document of every state or whatever you want, every Parliament is a base document. Furthermore, to tell us what about funding commitments that have been reportedly taken from the Madrid document. What about Lil's covered. Let us know the authoritative presidency, the Council of Ministers and say, "Don't worry about everything that's planned in Madrid, it's covered by this budget." We're gonna get our hands up right now, we're serious, I believe. Mr. Mihajlović Branko climate, unfortunately, is not Bulgaria so this means no, because in Bulgaria they say this means yes. Since we're not in Bulgaria, but in Bosnia, I guess not. So, no, it's covered. We're talking about establishing customs, and if I get it right by summer, we need to form some common customs types of such, and I don't know what they're going to do, because they're planned to finance themselves here. If they can finance themselves under the rest, it's a special story. Let me just point out that in the report, the report that's in front of us, it literally says here, I know that it sounds a little bit now, I'm really just taking the roughest examples as an illustration, you don't believe the strength or the will to go through all of this, here to bother you too, because more or less you know this. It says here that it's in favor of foreign debt in the last year. A mistake has been made here, so I'm guessing it says that in bilateral obligations under the rest of the bilaterals there are millions and 100,000 marks and that five million and five hundred thousand were spent. Which, when you look a little bit better, you see that it's a mistake, because nothing's been spent for the rest, but it's five million just sums of something up there, which you see again is the most literal six times than it's planned, etc. There are material mistakes here that simply cannot appear before the Commission, let alone before Parliament. And in the end, I would ask once again, I would appeal to you to really remove any politicization from all of this, and as much as possible, because if I wanted to politicise, I would put this differently, if I wanted to politicise, my exposure would be much more harsh with much more difficult political qualifications, and I'm just asking you all to turn it on together, so at least the yellow light, if you're afraid of red. I think we're saying let's let the people see that now fine these few things that are visible, knows each of you here that the Council of Ministers definitely planned at 12 to sit on the meeting, to sit down a little bit to prepare for us three papers per dot a), b) and c) to say that these are so that someone is obliged to do so after noon on the Commission and that we're simply not making up a new story about the agenda now, there's no need for it to be pointless, but to simply take advantage of today's work on commissions, and that if we have to do it all night, that we owe Klajnu up to 24 to see what we can do up to 24, but to know this report, this kind of material we've got can't have the support of those who want the good people of this country, the RS, the Federation and anyone. This is a staining of a rotten 20-alts so you didn't take your rust off. If you need to go to the wedding, you better take a cab tomorrow than paint your car for a wedding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1471	Thank you. The word came from Mr. Rakić, and then Mr. Divković. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1472	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, for this discussion I have appeared more than I would say a replica but yet I was initiated by Mr Lagumdžija for several reasons. We all know what a Budget of a state is. It is known to all of us that the Budget of a single country to bring must be economic policy and much, much more. Unfortunately, however, this is not the budget of the state, the budget of the BiH institution and the international obligation of BiH clearly writes here. That's it. Therefore, each of us should go out for this pay phone and raise a number of questions in which this economy is located, in which the common society may discuss as much as we want, so we call it politicizing or not here, but that's the fact. It's clear here what this is. In our constitution, it is clearly defined that the budget of the BiH institution is subsidized by one and the other entity in relation to this and that there can be other revenues. Therefore, the adoption of this budget is not deeply affected by economic policy, nor is 4/2 burdened by this country with a number of structural elements, which are very important, is it mainly determined by the entity's budgets. So, today, we are having a debate on the topic that you and Mr Lagumdžija have launched, I agree, but one other time, and another point to see what the BiH strategy is, the development of the economy, etc. Well, let's move it a little bit wider, but not through this Budget like this, because I openly said how I consider it. And that's why I'd like to ask you to discuss how we're going to conduct the debate. As far as I can tell, we now have a quorum for the Commission, I think Mr. Tomić is a member of the Commission and he arrived and he was six. If we're not going to take a break and stick, and then we're going to agree on a debate, we're going to have a debate, because this Budget is one technical question for me that we need to bring today, it's a technical question for me. It is clearly defined here: - on the foreign debt dealings of RS exactly 50,217,348 DEM and the obligations foreseen there are 13.5 million of those subsidies. And let me say from the Federation that difference is predicted to be 27 million. We can ask a few questions here. Transparency of Budget, what are the revenues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and what is the budget's income if it is not paid in Budget, so it does not return to its users, but directly has income from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and spends how much money it spends? This is one of my remarks, and another remark in which you said in Budget RS clearly defined the new one in the draft, which was discussed on the commissions is 10 mil. KM, and from what I've seen in the Budget of the Federation, it's projected 20 million. KM. When you take a closer look at this Budget, I think he can come to terms with those ten and a half million marks and he's doing his job. For several reasons, the budget must be divided into two parts, so Budget users and Budget Foreign 21 repairs. There's no point in this part of the foreign service that entities have to do, so it goes through certain institutions to set out 3% of the mandatory reserves, so we say 6 million there, so I don't know new institutions that aren't founded by two million etc. So these 10 million can be compensated and let me say again that I wouldn't detail it, I'm going to go through the numbers and I'm going to make up proposals and what I think should be reduced so that it can be brought into that figure 55,500,000 DEM and that it can be adopted today with these obligations as they are, but I suggest we negotiate how we will conduct the debate so that I won't be confused to the end of the overall proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1473	Thank you. Just so I'm clear, you'll get Mr. Lagumdžija and the replica and the other debaters. I intend to accept Mr Spahić's proposal and to schedule now the meeting of the quorum Commission, to consider this and to come here to Parliament with a proposal. Whether this will be a continuation of work, whether it will be at what time to continue work, etc.? The Commission will also be invited by the competent ministers, co-chaired by the Council of Ministers and brought here a statement on how to proceed. I ask the following debaters to have this fact in mind which I will immediately, so we will immediately announce a break, and I have two debaters and Mr. Lagumdžija for replication. Let Mr. Divković prepare for the discussion after therefore Mrs. Suada. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1474	I answered the line I'm obliged to say there wouldn't be anything vague left. I am very glad that we agree on the assessment that this whole country is both BiH's other entity as a whole and the RS and the Federation of BiH in one difficult economic crisis and what they say would only be missing if we disagreed, and then really ask ourselves what we are doing here at all, and we are not on any other kind of observation. So we agree, but we disagree deeply. Even your discussion has made me feel even more about how much disagreement there is between us, is not a Budget technical question in any country, bravo, is this Budget, come to us. Article 8 of the Finance, I read to you, please these are very serious things, let the basic things line up, if we disagree that if you think this isn't Budget, and I think it's Budget, then the whole story is pointless, then we have nothing to talk about, then you're talking about ballet, and I'm talking about opera, somebody's deaf here or not helping to go to the opera. So, it's fine here that the Parliamentary Assembly is going to adopt the Budget on a proposal from the Bureau every year, and that's what we do, it assumes. It's not what we do, it's what we should do. To cover the costs needed to exercise the authority of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH. This is Budget BiH. Now, look, colleague Rakić, you've still got me worried about some of the information you said here. When I heard from you that 10 million DEM was planned in the budget in RS for these commitments, I froze nicely, because it says 150 and 22 million DEM change that it should be paid. And in the Federation, it's not 20 for your information, it's to be precise in the Federation how it says foreign interest expenditures, be careful, interest to explain to the people that we only pay 68 million back in Budget to a federal 68 million in Budget Federal for interest. Obviously, these things as you call technical things require quite a serious debate and a lot of serious clarifications, not a commission to come to us with full respect for the people of the maximum level of assistant minister, they can't come to the commission to explain things that are political nature no more technical, and when this becomes a technical issue, then the matter will be simple. That's why I'm asking you fellow Genjac to put in charge of the Council of Ministers to prepare point 3a, 3b. and 3c. how we agreed it, and let the commissions work in parallel, respecting the really full consistency of Mr Spahić's proposal. So the Council of Ministers goes on a date and gives us a prepared point 3a, 3b. and 3c. and to solve these issues technically, and before that, to resolve political issues, if necessary, if anything is unclear, if we need to call General Klajn to tell us what the man meant when he wrote it, if we don't understand. He's not the economist he's wondering about here, man. It's not my fault it's like that, God forbid you ask for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1475	Thank you. Replica Mr Spahić, followed by Mr Divković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1476	In the Commission, as far as I have reviewed the composition of the Commission, we have one expert from the Council of Ministers, he is the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and his name is Neven Tomić. So, the chance to get an assistant is avoided, and I think it's very important that we work rationally and have materials, I think that the order to respect ourselves first, I agree that all bodies meet, and we have one procedure the Presidency has proposed Mr. Hajrić has explained in the Commission is one of the key people of the Council of Ministers, I would ask that we hear the precise answer to the three questions he has asked, and Mrs. Suada was correct. Let us work in the interest of ourselves, not the Council of Ministers and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1477	Thank you. Replica, what is it? Mr. Divković, and after that, the Rečica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1478	Well, this, Mr. Chairman, could also be called intervention. Watch out for something. We've got a bill on the implementation of the budget. There's no proposing on this bill, there's nothing in it. We have received clarifications from the Commission that the Bureau's proposal, if the Bureau's proposal was logical, was either one of the members of the Bureau or from the Bureau's Office came out and proposed or suggested that we have the view that on behalf of the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and the Co-chair of Mihajlović would do so and then the matter would be 23. So first, we need to clear up when he's a real promoter. It's not just a formal thing. If we have an amendment in the debate right now. Who are we going to direct him to? Shall we go to the Council of Ministers or the Presidency? If we refer him to the Presidency, I'm afraid this session will take a very, very long time to get the Presidency's position on the amendment. So that's one thing. Another thing, papers again. According to the Budget Law, the institution of Tidd. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications sent it to the Presidency, and gentlemen, that's what we got, and we didn't get the Presidency's position on what was addressed to them, so that we as Parliament's Assembly discussed it. This isn't for us, this is for the Presidency. So, gentlemen, let's make some order to know who's responsible for the order of moves, the order of steps, as prescribed by the Constitution and by the Rules of Procedure on the work of this body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1479	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1480	I asked a question I didn't get an answer to, and I asked a question so we could figure out how to keep working? As soon as I got out, I called in earlier and I have a replica of Mr. Rakić, I think this is the Budget of BiH, and then fine in the first article, it's taken over from the Constitution, and it's said to these budgets that finance it and that, and the budget's revenues are from these and these sources. Why am I starting this issue? My Law on the Implementation of Budgets with an addendum to the table review of income and expenditure, where in the last article of the Law, it is said that the table review of income and expenditure is an integral part of the Law is not appropriate to our agenda as we have chosen. So we have to have the Budget now, and if we're going to have it, I'm not going to keep this meeting and speak my remarks on this supplement to say so, and if we don't, then we won't have a lot of objections. The first point is that revenues are reported by the way, all users are listed, so the nuances ultimately indicate only revenues and different ones. The law states that we have income from the transfer of the Federation and the RS, that we have donations and donations of external donations and grants to be precise and that we have other extraordinary and regular revenues. In this text, which says that the component of the budget, i.e. the Law, says "that we have other revenues besides this transfer", and in the section called which is unclear to me, here I take the right to know something about the Budget, because I used to lead the Budget Commission in that section called the Budget of BiH, it shows that there are own revenues and it is not a small sum, that is more than 25 million KM. We have to make a nice situation in Budget first incomes, which is said to say what should be done for those revenues what cannot be done in the text of the law, can be explained. I have answered the word that we have an obligation as a Parliamentary Assembly that we know if we have signed up in Budget that we will have our own incomes or that we will call them other incomes or that we will call them regular and extraordinary incomes that we must make certain regulations for them. The promoter must tell us which sources he has counted on, and in reason, there is no source, so that on the basis of that 24, then the Parliamentary Assembly knows that one law, another law, third law, should be passed. What is the obligation and to direct all these incomes to the Budget, not to those ministries that kill them. I am saying this now to the Commission before the meeting, because the Commission has nothing to do, the Government or the Council of Ministers to declare this Budget proposal, this proposal that it has and that we need to talk about, and then the Budget Law goes to where some things are mixed. He's taken over everything he's supposed to be in Budget but he's not a single digit. It is common and meaningful that Parliament declares the figures, meaning the budget's revenues are so big and so big, they come from these sources, the budget's expenditures are so big and so big, they focus on these and those purposes and the users are you and you, and then we have one text of the Budget that's real, and then we can discuss it with amendments and in the Commission. I, Mr. Chairman, don't know what we're going to discuss in the Commission, we just talked without a quorum that this text someone said can, someone can't we all agree that in another way we should set it up. Now, I've come to the floor to say this, and if we have a chance to talk about this text, I have some concrete suggestions, because there are 4/6 of some illogicalities in the proposed expenditures that I'm going to submit to if I have to make an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1481	Thank you. Mr. Rečica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1482	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I would refer to it, it is obvious that a certain amount of I must say and confusion here amongst the MPs. First, I do not think there is a need to give the Council of Ministers the task that the Council of Ministers now has its own extraordinary session or session, the Council of Ministers knows its mission and has made three per cent of me a lot of quality material on the trail as it was possible to do so at this time and these materials have been submitted to the Presidency as a draft, the Presidency has accepted them and has sent Parliament today for adoption and consideration. There may have been some problems in late material whether it got someone a day or two earlier or a day or two later. But the agenda is conceived so that we have three points, one point with a), d) and c). I would ask you under a) The report on the implementation of the Budget for the past year, here is a book detailed with all the data with all the elements, income, expenditure, text, explanations, very transparent for each item of the Budget from 1998 that we had, when it started to work, which is why, in what way, how much money has been achieved and someone is now surprised to know why 66 million in the last year you pay off the debt, Minister Kurtović will probably give detailed information of the debt payment. We, as far as I know, didn't stay or the banks owed to anyone, has a program, has a reprogramme, deals with the London Club, with a Paris Club with 25 World Bank if we owed 66 million, one and the other entities paid it, with certain revenues the state had, and we had our own obligation last year, I don't know exactly 66 or 78. So I ask you to look under point a. refer to the 1998 Budget Realisation Report, text section, income, plan for 1998, revenue realized, when it started to work, total budget expenditure, detailed expenditure table per user, with detailed cansium explained. And if we need to later explain this in detail for each individual item, the expenditure of the budget, as much as the user, where what has been achieved, how it has been achieved. It is a vague type of income to someone, it is now problematic what the text of the budget is, and it has given the budget law and budget law, etc. Here's Mr. Lagumdžija read clearly, in the Constitution stands the budget, doesn't say anywhere about the budget law we bring the budget that's the second material that's prepared for you here and the third material that follows is the law on budget implementation. This b., here is the Sir, the budget or the Croatian budget since this is the Croatian version that I have with me of the budget of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Institution, the total items, how many Parliament, how many Presidency, how many court, how many Council of Ministers, how many different ministries, how many other institutions, users that is income. How much of the revenue, as much for debt service, that's the 1999 budget. And this budget has its detailed explanation that says, the draft budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 1999 plus a justification for each item, and that third material, I don't know if you've all got the assumption that the best possible iconic assessment of BiH's payment plan for 1999, until in detail you can look at four or five pages for 15 different items for each possible detailed analysis has been carried out, for each user and for each institution to which the debt is paid, with relevant notes and explanations, now whether we have read it in detail or not. So at this point, gentlemen, there is no confusion, we have a report and we need to discuss the Budget for 1998 we have a budget proposal for 1999 and the third material is the draft budget law for 1999. When making this law, I would ask you, some have mentioned Mr. Klajn, with technical services, with the civil service ministry, with the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Trade, and if you want with the entire Council of Ministers, this material has been seen working with us in the making of the IMF and representatives of the World Bank. Furthermore, when drawing up the draft, I am talking about the draft since it was done by the Council of Ministers, we have handled the procedures and principles agreed and advocated by the IMF, and it is known for what, because of the standby arrangement, because of all the cash transactions, because of the debt payment, in '97 and '98 and the procedures and the approach to solving this problem were done as in '97 as well as in '98, and most of the MPs here, as far as I know, voted Budget for 1998, on the same track we were working on this solution for 1999. Has it ever been before, I have to tell you I have no experience, has it ever been done before seven, fifteen years ago and whether it's a practice in some countries to do a particular budget law, and especially a law on budget implementation, etc., I don't know. The current practice constitutional solution from the Dayton Constitution says -- the draft budget for the ministry of civil affairs, the proposal adopts it or does not adopt the 26th Presidency, the presidency sends the proposal to the BiH Parliament for adoption. The second paragraph is very clear, very explicit is the law on budget implementation, the law on budget implementation for perhaps, if it has not looked at you well for the public, defines the full procedure, there are no figures and numbers, figures, numbers of users, expenditure, income is in the budget. In order for this to be more transparent, the budget has its own table, means a table view with an additional budget explanation and with an additional third item of the argument later on. But in the law on budget implementation that something could be realised is normal that there are taxaneous and income sources that not all of us are involved in budget-making, let's say for this 1999, we have exact expenditure, income, expenditure side, detailed and precise budget-functioning procedures, transfers of funds in which they are transferred, how users spend these funds, reporting on spending, quarterly, or quarterly monitoring, reporting, monitoring of the Ministry of Civil Affairs over the user of each of these budgets, monitoring of the spending of funds, certain criminal measures, i.e. criminal acts for the events of cross-cutting actions in the possible misuse of the use of budget funds. For your information, with the addition of this draft budget for 1999, there are two other things that could possibly be our organisational, some of which I see, confusion of my resolution, we are now in very intense activities in the negotiations on the formation of BiH's Treasury. So an institution that will deal with the budget, which will deal with debt payments to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, and secondly, if there are certain indications about the possible lack of use of funds, the lack of audit control is formed next to the institutions held by the Council of Ministers, the BiH budget sector of the Civil Affairs Ministry, we will have a international review group to deal with, meaning international experts, independent, which will also deal with the issue among other budget audits and spending resources in the budget. One more thing, a brief note, I think you should make two things very clear. One is the budget and adoption of the 1999 budget, and the other is a donor conference. The condition for holding a donor conference is for BiH and entities to adopt their budgets for this fiscal year. Special activities are very broad, most likely others will inform you about the Tomen Information, which is being led to prepare BiH for the donor conference and at the state level, at the level of the Council of Minors and at the level of entities. As far as I know, a lot of very extensive materials have been made, among other things, special meetings of the Council of Ministers are dedicated to the donor conference, including the one at which they referred us at 12 o'clock, the meeting of the council ministers was dedicated to the donor conference. One more thing, I think they sounded quite alarming, at least it was information to me that the users of the budget, let's say the Ministry of Civil Affairs now one detail of the budget, let's say that the state has a refugee program, that it's transferred, that the ministry where I am, that it has 290,000 Kms in the plan, these are really minimal, and more than minimal, in my opinion, they're funny. However, these funds are not designed to produce or implement a specific refugee return programme. We have one whole set of institutions with which we work directly and from which we have already received some funds. Let's say the UNHCR, we're in direct contact with them, we already have five or six million German marks approved for this purpose. We are in direct contact with a whole series of projects with the European Commission and 27 European Union, so these projects and their realisation are designed to create conditions for refugee returns, to take care of these refugees who are now here in BiH and to implement a whole series of projects. For example, it is true that here it is sitting that among other users is that 200,000 are scheduled for the Investment Promotion Agency. However, there is another programme that we are working directly in co-operation with the international community, which sums up these 200,000 as basic initial assets and I already know that there are 1,100,000 marks that are intended for both international experts and for the development of the programme and for the transport of this agency to promote investment from permanent investment. Let's just say, just the data, but that's not a matter of BiH's budget, this is just an explanation, please, other users, let's say that the Statistics Bureau is 200 or 300 thousand, but we have at least three institutions, from UNDIPI and further which directly helps develop statistics in BiH at the level of the state and in both entities. I know exactly that at this point it is in realisation of a program worth about 2.5 million marks, for the acquisition of equipment, for the establishment of a system, for connecting entity statistical offices, with a statistical office in the country. Purchase of computer equipment, additional staff education, etc. These are funds to finance the core of these other institutions to finance the basic work of the BiH Joint Institutions and the funds planned to pay off the external debt. I would be most fortunate if BiH were in a situation where there were much more opportunities, much more resources available, then they would probably include some direct programmes. But now the situation is what it is, I think we're almost out of the war, out of some major destruction, and I wouldn't want it to be forgotten. Thank you, I hope there's been a few clarifications.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1483	Thank you. Two replicas, Mr. Lagumdžija and Mr. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1484	It seems that here was the intention to go on condition and to deplete MPs, if you need to fit instead of discussing the essence, we can also go on condition. But I'd still like to start by going back to a few factographics, so to speak, the facts that are incorrectly mentioned here. It has been said that the MPs, being cited quotes from what I'm saying, are creating confusion here. Gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, you created confusion for one simple reason, which is why we have heard here right now in this avalanche of words, we first heard that we should not combine the budget with the donor conference, and then we heard that the adoption of the budget is a condition for the donor conference. Then we couldn't quite figure out how much the Statistics Office planned in 50% of the figure doesn't know. Then we finally heard here that last year's foreign debt service was paid as it was said, I don't know exactly either 66 or 78 million, which is what we don't know how much more than it is that in Republika Srpska's budget is planned for this whole 1999 budget at all so much about confusion. And now to specify the confusion that you created for us, we as MPs, you waved to us once if I saw a pink book and one yellow book, you mentioned three books, the other you didn't wave to us because there's no budget, or there's a budget, and as someone said the revenue page, 28 here to look at what we as MPs got. Budget, what you call a budget has one and a half pages, and what's a problematic issue of income is standing right here and that's all. You have room to print these revenue from the budget on the cover of the passport, because there's so much blank space on the cover of the passport, you print it all out. Daba's idea. It's easier to understand, and then the people will be familiar, who wants to travel knows why they're traveling, because they see this kind of income and they have a whole budget printed out, which I think the Japanc haven't figured out yet. I repeat, MPs have not received any material from which you are talking about how you list what you are planning to pay us this year after serving foreign debt. I ask you once again to prevent representatives of the Council of Ministers as deputies or anyone to lecture Parliament to send them to do what they need to do. And to conclude, I'm asking if they won't tell us themselves, then I'm asking the Rules of Procedure to make it clear if we think they need something to prepare for us. No, I'm saying it the third time, and I'm asking you, please, we can get in shape, we're ready, but I suggest we don't go in shape, we go in for a little bit of technique, we don't get out of this mess that we got into. We won't be held accountable for what you call a budget. And you solve the confusion between yourself and yourself, and then we can talk further.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1485	Thank you, Mrs. Muminagić, so Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1486	I was reporting for the replica, since Mr. Rečica called the budget from 10 to 15 years ago, I was a little early in that age of 25, so you were wrong. But it's not that. I will just remind myself that in '97 Parliament, not this because it wasn't this composition, passed the Budget Law and the Budget Law. Last year alone, it was combined, accidentally combined, so the Budget Implementation Act said a budget would be implemented that was not adopted. Please, it's unnatural for the text to go tabular in addition to budgeting, and that's the basic act. Because we didn't get that basic act. I have to say, I'm taking the right to know something from this, we've got an addition to which Article 32, which consists of two parts. One supplement is called the proposal, I read what it says, I say the budget, the BiH budget for 1999, and the other is called the BiH Institution Budget and the International Obligations of BiH for 1999. This first one has a global schedule, I know it's supposed to stand, and if these are two documents. And this second one only has the users of the institution, and that's why I'm asking the question we're going to talk about, I have no intention of arguing or slowing down the adoption, but let's get a document to write revenue sources, in which it will write expenditures, and in which it will all be users. It's the kind of documents she brought in, like, I know I've got with me, the Federation at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1487	Thank you. Mr. Tomić as an MP. 29
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1488	It is difficult to separate when it comes to the budget, the discussion as a representative and the discussion as a member of the Council of Ministers of the institution which took part in the preparation of the amendments to this law. I would really like first of all to protect the integrity of this Parliament and ask the chairman that, in accordance with the agenda, we are running this session and we are discussing the points of the agenda, because in matters of whether we have a b., c. or c., we came forward when we adopted the agenda, that we have a, b. and c. So we're running point a, and that's the report on last year's budget, point b. is the budget, and point c. is the law on budget depletion. The colleagues who discussed that there is no point b. Point b. exists, only point b. does not look like that point b. of twenty or more years ago, which has a head, is called for by the constitutional law, and then it is said, in Article 1 b. budget as practically one decision, one declaration of Parliament whose enforcement is governed by the law established in this Parliament. There was even thinking that the sesame law called the bill on the budget and the implementation of the budget to simply commit itself, but this variant also accepts that this is going to be a.b. and c. therefore, that budget is therefore that table part. Our problem is that this table part isn't obviously complicated right now, it's not big, so there's a lot of other things going on in it, but it's our destiny. If the budget passed and the only one that was BiH after Dejton adopted was practically brought to Bona. If you remember there, in the end, Mr Krajišnik accepted on condition that we delete what these other BiH incomes are called. And after returning from Bonn, the BiH Parliament only unanimously accepted that view of the budget. Now the same thing is happening, it's clear to all of us, you've seen that the x-point on the agenda adopted by the Council of Ministers is called the Law on Administrative Taxes. Because at this point, there is no desire for this revenue to be explicitly written in the category of other revenues, there is no. But these revenues operate under the old laws of BiH, which this Parliament also respects and says BiH's continuity, etc. There's nothing to say, the category is called other incomes, normically with respect to all those remarks you've said, transparency, clarity, consistency in conduct, etc. However, until we get the names of these, until we adopt the law on administrative fees, so income from the spring, and income from the consular fees, then this side will grow at this moment, this is the maximum that we can achieve to meet the needs and demand of the IMF on the one hand, and on the other hand to respect the possibility that BiH's continuity will leave to collect these other revenues collected in one way or another and that I fully agree with my colleagues and that was one of the main requirements for adopting the law on administrative fees, which, if you have read in your last article, lastly, is one obligation to adopt a new order on BiH's payment accounts on which these administrative fees will be paid and thus to round the transparency of the BiH budget's revenues, which, as I have already said in part of the discussion of the colleagues' discussion, was questionable. However, in order not to discuss the a., o b., I propose the chairman to, so I have said more as a representative, and I can talk much more about it as a man who knows the prophet that we are discussing this orderly and that we are then leading the debate towards the adoption of this budget which, as such, went through, to say such torment and consensus both in the Council of Ministers and in the Presidency, and to try to appeal 30 to all of our representatives in the FBiH Parliament, who is at the House of Representatives, with the vote of all, unanimously according to the information that we have received unanimously, so the representatives of all the parties sitting and in this Parliament have voted that budget which is not in line with this budget which BiH has foreseen and which is also at the stage of agreement with the IMF and the Office of the High Representative to be approved. Tomorrow is the home of the people of the Federation of BiH, and it is an opportunity to make adjustments and comply with what has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1489	Thank you. Of course, we're going to have a debate under a, and then b, and then c, and we're going to make a statement about what's going on. On the basis of the rapieudlog, several MPs will announce a break of up to three hours, the Commission will meet in this hall, at the same time calling on the Commission for International and Foreign Affairs in which MPs Dokić, Oručević, Tomić, Lozančić, Divković, Mirković, Rađević, Jahić, Spahić, Lagumdžija are to hold a meeting of this commission in room 107, and we continue to work at 3 o'clock. The Commission shall prepare for the budget the examination under a, b and c with a shorter introductory exposure. [[pause]] We're going back to work. The House of Representatives Commission in charge of finance and budget issues held its session and I call on Mr Tomić to submit a report ahead of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1491	Since I am the usual vice-president, as Vice-President of the Budget Committee in the absence of the President of the Commission, I would like to inform you that we have held a session of the Commission at which we have managed to agree all positions related to the documents that have been extended and I would suggest to Parliament that, in accordance with the item of the agenda under a., b. and c., I present the views of the Commission and then move on to a debate or vote on this point. When it comes to the report on the Budget for the past year, the Commission found that the report can be accepted, that the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina have been met in accordance with those obligations, that we have considered the part which concerned the issue of quotation and that the quotation of what was settled towards membership in international organisations has been reconciled in accordance with the revenue achieved and that this membership should be reconciled regularly and with all the lags in the next period, with the Commission's proposal to adopt the report to provide the Bureau's conclusion on the adoption of this Report and that, as a third conclusion of this Commission, it is the future in the adoption of the budget that the report is going ahead of the budget, i.e. that the budget is adopted by regular procedure, so as to have more time and space to carry out the new budgets. Under point b., the Commission has established and proposes to Parliament to adopt that it is the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this budget is practically a form to say so, Parliament's decisions, the power of law which will practically be modified in the way that I am about to present to you and it looks like this. Data are all here we only agreed that there should be little modification in the sense that the name is the 1999 budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina and then goes towards financing the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the international commitments of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 1999 require funds totalling 219.58.018 KM and the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions of 66.072.900 and the service of external debt of 153.485.118 KM and the total amount proposed. After that, a review of the revenues to cover these needs is an assessment of the income of the Federation of BiH 27.000,000, Republika Srpska 13.500,000, other revenues 25.572.900 and for the service of external debt 153.485.118 KM. Afterwards, expenditure is the part that applies to the financing of BiH institutions, so the salaries of employees, employees in the DKP network, and as foreseen here. Then comes the category of external debt service with it being broken into the Federation of BiH 86,778,768 and Republika Srpska 58,535,344 in total, as indicated here. After these categories come table reviews of users, so this table Budgets institutions and then comes an analysis of external debt service, World Bank, IMF, European Bank etc. The Commission considers that this is the way in which the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be adopted and that the conclusion of the Presidency is also formally missing from the session of 20 April when the budget and practically adopted, noting that, when rebalancing or drawing up a new budget, the same basis for salaries and the material costs of all the beneficiaries of the budget can be established. In this context, the Commission proposes to adopt the text with this budget configuration. And under point c. The Law on the Implementation of the Budget, we suggest that in the Law on the Implementation of the Prorchaun which you have received here in the text of the proposal in Article 3 the Proposer is released. So the beneficiaries of the budget are the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, etc., so the words "The Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina" are missing. Article 32 of this legislative legislative position of the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget does not need to stand in Article 32, because then one cannot be a legitimate part of the second law, so Article 32 is deleted and Article 33 becomes Article 32. Finally, with this conclusion, the Commission proposes that the Commission, Parliament's service and the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications prepare a consolidated text of this for publication in the "Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1492	Thank you. Mr. Branković. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1493	I'd just like to say a few words about the method of working within the Commission. All the members of the Commission are fully aware of the shortcomings, possibly and weak places that can be criticised for days in all the three documents Mr Tomić has made. Therefore, it is certainly not necessary to hold lectures as many as there are gaps and we wanted to go with the principle that these documents should be adopted, but it is clear that the debate procedure should be opened in this Parliament too that the next financial years when we adopt these very important acts for the functioning of the state do not have such opening statements and introductory comments that we are all aware of. So, you don't need to say how many failures there are, we know them, but you need to favor those things that are visible progress because there's really a leak here. In any case, I regret that there are no MPs here who have been saying at the beginning of this session that they are entering Europe, that with this budget and this approach of work they are not entering Europe, they are certainly not coming into Europe from Monday, they are entering Europe with dedicated work, patience and co-operation and work on commissions and this Parliament until the end of these sessions. In a way, I'd like to say that we all need to sit here, it's not easy to sit for four or five hours, but we can't give ourselves an exclusive that at the beginning of the session when all the cameras are on, when all the journalists are present, we make a certain impression, and after that when working in 6/3 this way, specifically by the materials, as it was done in the Commission, there's no one there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1494	You have heard the report of the Commission's budget and finance representatives, before that there has been a debate, a lot of suggestions and what has been said during the debate, it has been respected in these recommendations of the Commission, and since there is no need for any further debate, I am, however, putting these Commission proposals and what you have heard so far, possibly another suggestion of MPs before the hearing. Come in, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1495	I didn't mean to speak, but a colleague from the Commission provoked the discussion. We came to this stand together on one thing, I'd say, a highly constructive way of trying to get along. Therefore, we are not satisfied with this and in any normal procedure to plead for or against it, surely part of the opposition would be against it. Then we went to agree, aware that it was an imperative moment, aware that it was a condition for a donor conference, etc. So let us not politicise, let it remain as proposed by the chairman of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1496	I ask the Technical Service to establish the number of MPs present to join the vote. So 30 MPs are present. We have a quorum for legitimate work and a valid decision and I suggest we join the plea in the framework of this agenda under a., b. and c. 33 Pod. is the report on the execution of the Budget for 1998. I propose that this report, with all suggestions, corrections and corrections made by the chair of the Budget and Finance Commission, on behalf of the Commission, be adopted in such a way. I ask the messengers that we speak with our hands up. Who's in? 26 MPs are in favour. We'll hold a vote on the entities to determine. From Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? Thank you. We have the required majority. From the Federation's space who's in favour? We have the required majority. Thank you. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's restrained? So, along with two abstentions, the report was adopted with everything Mr Tomić stated on behalf of the Commission in mind and said about the procedure for the next adoption of the report. At point B, we have the adoption of the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to all that has been said on behalf of the Finance and Budgets Committee, with all these repairs and changes to the tables that will be an integral part of this minutes and which will be entered into the final form of the document, not to repeat now, I propose that we adopt the proposed budget. I ask the messengers that we speak with our hands up. Who's in? 26 MPs are in favour. It's an entity vote. From Republika Srpska's space who's for please? Enough votes, thank you. From the Federation's space, who's for please? He's got the number of votes he needs. Thank you. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's restrained? With three abstentions. Under point c. we have a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, with corrections and suggestions and changes that will follow the Commission's position on finance and budget issues, I propose that the draft law on budget implementation be adopted. I'm asking you to give us a plea by raising our hands. Who's in? 28 MPs are in favour. By entities. From Republika Srpska's space who's in favour? Thank you. We have the required majority. 34 From the Federation's space who's in favour? We have the required majority. Thank you. We're taking the vote to the end. Who's against it? There's no one here. Who's restrained? Two abstentions. I find that with the said number of votes, the report on the implementation of the budget for 1998 was adopted, the Budget for 1999 was adopted and the Budget Law for 1999 was adopted. Congratulations to the MPs and thank you for your cooperation. I note that during the debate on this item of the agenda, we had a proposal from the MEP Neimarlija to draw conclusions, i.e. the House of Representatives, which would be bound by the Council of Ministers to draw up a draft law on the budgetary procedure in the course of this year to regulate all these issues more precisely. I put this proposal to the vote. The proposal of the Constitutional Commission, delivered by Parliamentarian Neimarli, as I recall, Kadić thanks her. Thank you, Tokić. On behalf of the Commission brought forward by Mr Kadić, the conclusion. It puts forward a proposal for a vote. Who's to conclude? 27 for the required majority. By entities. It's from Republika Srpska's space. Who's in? Thank you. From the Federation's space others, therefore the name needed a majority. I agree that we have reached the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is under the obligation to join and this year prepare a draft law on the process of adopting the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget, which will more precisely regulate all issues raised today during the debate. With this, we exhausted the debate and the vote on the 2nd item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda I call on MPs who have a parliamentary question, who have prepared a question to take the floor. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1497	Ladies and gentlemen, 35 In accordance with the BiH Constitution, point IV, the authority of the BiH Assembly, sub-point a. and sub-point b.a on behalf of what is important for BiH this year and what is part of the documents from Madrid and our programme of entry into the Council of Europe and respect for the democratic principles of organisation of society and state, I propose the following and in the form of a parliamentary request, however you will. 1. To refer to the existing Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives on behalf of Mrs Mediha Filipović, Mr Nedžad Branković, Mr Rasim Kadić and Ibrahim Spahić, four MPs who say Parliament can appoint a College, can be scheduled at the request of the presidency, can be scheduled at the request of the Council of Ministers and at least four MPs who are MPs in the appropriate home, I request a meeting of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina on two fundamental issues and, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I request that the meeting be scheduled. First, under point (a) concerning the adoption of the law why the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly is responsible for the implementation of the Presidency's decisions and for meeting the obligations of the Assembly under the Constitution, with regard to the decisions of the Presidency relating to the entry of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the Council of Europe, where the joint will of all three members of the Presidency is expressed and where the title of our delegation in the Council of Europe and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers is shown the clear political will of Bosnia and Herzegovina to join the Council of Europe, I ask that a session be held to discuss the issues I raised at the beginning concerning what we asked Mr Prlić. And under B. decision on elections and revenue amounts to ensure the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the reconciliation of BiH's international obligations. In relation to this point, b. I ask that the BiH Parliament declare a permanent law on elections actively engage in a debate on one of the fundamental laws that will later build new democratic, and different democratic relations in BiH not to wait for one electoral law that will be delivered to us through the will of the OSCE, either by the High Representative, by any other association or combination of OHR and the OSCE. I believe that this is one of the four or five key powers and responsibilities of the BiH Assembly that it is an opportunity for us to take the initiative for work concerning the interests of BiH citizens, voters and these representatives who are present today as MPs in this Parliament and who will be elected at all levels within the framework of the elections either local, or general elections in BiH. Given that today's budget and everything under A. and B. and C. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, on this basis, it seems to me that these two decisions concerning the A. and B. competences of the BiH Assembly and, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, would be necessary to put on the agenda and these four MPs are looking for the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliament, which I hope will be prepared under the Secretariat and the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1498	We can take this as a request from the College. ___________ 36 I have an observation, let's change the agenda point and ask a question, you can't vote on the agenda point, I don't agree absolutely that this was a question. This wasn't a question. Just on the agenda, this is out of the agenda and it can't go. Mr. Dokić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1500	I'll act in accordance with the agenda point and ask only one question. I ask the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency to explain to this council for the next session who granted permission to use the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the aggression of NATO forces in Yugoslavia. Thank you very much. 6
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1501	Thank you. I'm just using one intervention I have to do. The issue implies the use of Bosnia and Herzegovina's space for NATO strikes, the issue implies that the space is already being used, noting that it is being asked questions in terms of facts and this note. Mr. Rakić next.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1502	I would ask the following question: - What does the Council of Ministers do to remedy the damages caused in the Republika Srpska attack by the NATO Pact on Yugoslavia? I would like to explain this: On the basis of the recorded state so far, production has been suspended in a large number of enterprises and is now waiting for about 35,000 workers. The inability to collect claims from temporary entities from Yugoslavia refugees, the inability to communicate and damage to business with Macedonia, Bulgaria, Greece and other countries of the same region, and, in that regard, having held a meeting of countries located in the environment, and it seems to me that he was the foreign minister at which these damages were discussed - whether the preparation was done and what was conditioned from that point of view and, please, answer these questions for the next assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-05-11-0.u1503	Thank you. Any other MPs have any questions? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. I thank the MPs and this work of the 5th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina is over. The session's finished at 4:00. 37 End
