ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u47	Gentlemen, I am opening the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I apologize for this little delay, it has been caused by various reasons, including technical reasons. I welcome all present representatives, representatives of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, representatives of the international community, and funds for public information. I agree that today's session is attended, practically, by all MPs, noting that Mr. Ćeman is missing from the Bosniak delegation, but in the meantime he resigned, followed by a replacement that you will be familiar with during the agenda. I propose the agenda that you receive with the invitation, with minor additions to the requirements of OHR, or Mr Vestendorp, which are related to the deadlines set out in the Madrid Declaration. As part of this, some information and questions may be within the point of Question of Envoys. You got the agenda in addition to the call, let me tell you what the supplement was, and then we'll get to the bottom of the agenda. You've got the following agenda: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 2nd session of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH, 2nd. Verification of the mandate of the new two MPs, that is the addition of the agenda, 3. The draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, it says here to the state, but there have been some demands and changes to the name, so you can hear about it later. I would like to welcome the members of the Council of Ministers of BiH and Mr Šumaher just arrived. I've only had two sentences, so I'd like to, since this is a delegation we have the honour to welcome, and this is what we're discussing today... In fact, everyone got a call earlier with a agenda. Due to OHR's demands, or Mr Vestendorp, and the circumstances surrounding the election of two MPs in the House of Peoples, there will be some minor changes, which are: that point 2 will be the verification of the mandate of the two new deputies. Point 3 will be the current item 2 on the agenda, which means – the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem. Point 4 - Proposal for a Law amending the Immunity Act. Point 5. Selection of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia in the OSCE Organisation,... Bosnia and Herzegovina's Interparliamentary Groups... and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Point 6. – Decision on the establishment of the temporary secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2 7. A draft framework law on the privatisation of companies and banks, 8 / 8 An emissary question that will be included in a wide range of issues. Any suggestions for changing or supplementing the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u48	Dear gentlemen, I suggest that the agenda looks only a little different, therefore, that the first point be - adoption, and the second one be the establishment of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. The 3rd point to be – the adoption of the resignation or the resolution of the present representative and the appointment of the new one to its place, the 4th point to be – the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, then further as the chairman suggested. Instead of drawing a bill on Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem, to be a draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, and to separate these two points, because it requires us to establish a House, therefore, to elect a fifth representative from the Croatian people's ranks, and of course, we support this point, only to place on the insistence of the High Representative the item of the agenda – the selection of the fifth representative from the Croatian people, and then, of course, all 15 and 14 present representatives will be introduced to the resignation of Mr. Ćeman and the election of a new representative.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. There are no amendments either under point 2, verification of the mandate and consideration of Mr. Ćeman's resignation may be changes, since Mr. Čampara has a centuries-old experience on how we're going to form this point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u50	I fully support the proposal proposed by the chairman, Mr Šoljić. To verify the mandate of two MPs, i.e. delegates in the House of Peoples, Mr Živković and Mr Ćeman. We are neither the Constitution nor any legal act competent to adopt or not adopt someone's resignation, it is a matter of every delegate and he has the right to do so, nor are we competent to choose someone or not, it is a matter of Bošnjak and Hrvat clubs in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, and the National Assembly of Republika Srpska from the order of the Serb people. Therefore, I think it should be put on as the chairman suggested, the verification of the mandate of the two MPs, and then only the entire House of Nations was established in full composition. That's it. 3
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. With regard to this second remark by Mr Zorić regarding the name of the second point, this, in the adoption of this Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is a state-run word everywhere and remains an anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please explain that too.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u52	The Office of the High Representative, or High Representative, submitted a proposal for a law on the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives held a debate on the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and some changes were made that you have now received on the bench and remained under the title of the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, as followed by the national anthem, was later deleted in Article 2.3.4. And all you talk about is the anthem and its use, so I don't convince you, you have all that in front of you. Therefore, Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem cannot be on the agenda, but rather Bosnia and Herzegovina's National Anthem Act, and then we can hold a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u53	Thank you. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u54	I'm a little surprised that Mr. Čampara, as an experienced politician, doesn't know that we already have 14 MPs in our House and that we can't choose two, but one, we verify, we have verified 14 mandates and this house, according to the Constitution, has 15 MPs, not 16. So we can, and this is what High Representative Karlos Vestendorp is asking us here to ask Mr. Zovka, the chairman of the House of the People of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, about which both Mr. Živković and Šoljić are familiar, to put this on the agenda of both homes. I ask that this be the point of the agenda, that it be established at last, because according to the Constitution, the House is established if five Srbin, five Bošnjak and five Hrvat are elected, and what will be called this item of the agenda, is decided here by the MPs, not the House of Representatives, therefore, by the representatives of this house. I suggest that the fourth point is called – the draft law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, and I'm not saying that it can't do what you suggest, so don't say that it can't do what I suggest, because that's what we're going to say. So, I am staying with my proposal that we have the first point - adoption of the minutes, the second point to be the establishment of the House of the Peoples of the PS of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the third point – Resolution and appointment to the vacancy of the new representative, the 4th point – the Draft of the Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina, continues as the chairman suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u55	All right, Mr. Čampara, it'd be best if you two agreed on that. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u56	We received a proposal or draft from the Office of the High Representative, as you will, the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We cannot put an amended proposal on the agenda, but we are putting into the agenda as suggested by the High Representative, and later we will have a debate. The same applies to the verification of the mandate, instead of the Ćeman who resigned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u57	Is there anyone else who can answer that?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u58	I guess we're just saying the same thing at different sessions. When I was here informing what Čampara, a representative of the Čampara, tried not to question the verification of Mr. Vrdoljak's mandate at our first session, so, of course, with the disapproval of the High Representative could change, I was interpreted differently, we can't possibly do that. And if this is what the House of the People of the Federation of BiH voted and elected five MPs from the Croatian people, but let's let it go, I propose that this is exactly what I propose that the third point be the resolution of the representatives of Mirsad Čeman and the choice or choice of Mr. Dževad Mlaće, I propose it. But first, we need to establish a home so that we can resolve and verify new mandates. We are not yet home, this is the third session, we have not established the House, and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says – The home of the peoples of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina was established when the mandates of the five Bošnjak, five Srbin and five Hrvat were verified. Why is it not allowed to establish this home under the first working point? It is not clear to me, and on behalf of the Croatian Representatives Club here I say, as we had no objection yesterday, we will still be in favour of verifying the mandate of Dževad Mlaće. We're up for it, but we're up for Dom first. Nothing else. Here, let's say we accept this, then at point 4, as we said, let it be called in the agenda this way, if that's the proposal of the High Representative, because the Hrvat always supported the High Representative, so let's call it the State Anthem Bill, then we'll change that later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u59	I'm a bit of a different profession than you, but, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u60	I'm sorry, but I can't accept that there's a point of resolution of the delegate Mirsad Ćeman, we're not resolving the delegate Mirsad Ćeman because he resigned and it's definitely, and this home has nothing to do with it, he resigned and no one can solve it here or solve it, we're just verifying the mandate of a new MP, that is, the delegate. 5
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u61	Here you go, Mr. Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u62	In my opinion, there is only one thing that is disputed here, this home must be officially informed that Mr. Ćeman has resigned, we cannot verify the mandate, since we are verifying the mandate, the next representative, if this house does not officially know that Mr. Ćeman has resigned, it must inform us in writing. It's him or one of the federal homes where he's elected.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u63	That we don't complicate it, which means Mr. Ćeman has resigned and it needs to be determined in which way he is working, and then we verify the mandate of another agent. Whether such a proposal can be accepted means that Mr Mirsad Ćeman has resigned from office as envoys in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. She writes what needs to be written, and the bottom line is, she's a little different than that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u64	Since we didn't get this resignation, and I trust our chairman, I have a second draft agenda. To be the first point – The adoption of the minutes, the second, - meeting or information to MPs about the resignations of MPs, and the third, the establishment of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Fourth, the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem remains as follows.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm against having to re-establish this house, this house was established at its first session with the conclusion that the MPs or delegates of this house will be subsequently delivered to those people who did not enter the first verification. If we have a constitution already at the third session of this house, that means that all the decisions that we have made in the previous two sessions are invalid and that we are going from the beginning. I am against such work and turning back, which is why I propose that we inform ourselves of Mr. Ćeman's resignation, to verify the mandates of these two delegates, which are, that is, to confirm these two new MPs, and to begin with the agenda as already proposed and agreed on at the House College.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u66	I mean, here we are somewhere, I would ask you to just listen to Mr. Ćeman's resignation, and it says: 6 I am resigning from the office of delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the term of office of 1998-2000. Reason: I am an MP at the ZE-DO Canton Assembly at the House of the Peoples of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in this home, i.e. The home of the people of the PSBiH, and I have obligations in the Party of Democratic Action whose secretary I am. Please deliver this notice to the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Peoples. Hello. Mirsad Ćeman. It's all clear here, the man is too busy and we need to accept his resignation. Right? To avoid a debate, you all know it, in politics this is absolutely clear, and in court, absolutely. So the second point is to take into account information about Mr. Ćeman's resignation, and the second point is the verification of the mandate, so that we don't question that it is, or third, and then it goes on the order we read. Can we conclude that this is the order we read? Can we conclude that this agenda has been adopted? Who's in? Does anyone have any abstentions or objections? There isn't. I find that the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to point one. You got the record, any objections? If he doesn't, I'll find the record has been adopted. We're moving on to the second point of getting acquainted with the resignation. That's what you just heard. It doesn't need to be adopted, it's his right, so we find that Mr. Ćeman's resignation has been accepted. The next item of the agenda is – Verification of the mandate of Mr. Ivo Živković and Mr. Dževad Mlaće imati one technical problem, which is that Mr. Ćeman was a member of the Verification Commission. That's why I suggest that the Bosniak club, instead of Mr. Ćeman, that in the Verification Commission of a member, of course, not Mr. Mlać, because he hasn't been elected yet. Here you go. I'm asking the Verification Commission to step down and let us know. Here you go, Mrs. Madžar, Malić and Čampara will handle it. Since the next point is important, it will be very short, to be patient, wait and adopt the verification. 7 The information that is related to this, following the election of two new representatives, has been made small changes in commissions, i.e. committees, so that it is done for the next session as a whole. So these little changes that will follow because of the blanks we left behind and the rest to be solved. When there's no president, it's always the Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u67	I was the president and the deputy, and now it's you. The Commission noted that, following Mirsad Ćeman's resignation, the Bosnjak Club of the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, at its meeting of 24.2.1999, had chosen a delegate in the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH Dževad Mlać. The Commission also found that in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, at the same session, on 24.2.1999, a delegate was elected by the Hrvat klub, Mr Ivo Živković, a candidate for the New Croatian Initiative, and Dževad Mlaćo is a candidate for the SDA. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Čampara, for the new representatives of the envoys, I wish successful work. You need to sign the statements. You sign two each year, and sign these every year. I will read, and you will repeat: "I undertake to exercise consciously the duties assigned to me, to support and defend the Constitution of BiH, that I will fully implement the Peace Agreement, promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and defend the interest and equality of all peoples and citizens." Thank you. Congratulations. Sign your statements. We move to the next point, which is: The draft law on the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina proposes, as well as at the House of Representatives, to first listen to three variants of the anthem, to identify ourselves probably in the same way as was done at the House of Representatives. Is the technique ready, can we hear that? (Anthem) This was an anthem marked by Intermeco. As you can see, whoever she wants can sing along with her, so she's not bad. Followed by an anthem of Polihimni. 8 (hymna) Let's hear another third proposal marked “Y” and then join the Bosnia and Herzegovina anthem. (Himna) You heard all three performances of the Bosnia and Herzegovina anthem. I am obliged to inform you that, as I said earlier, the House of Representatives has adopted amendments to delete the word “state or state” in Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. In the article “State Anthem” is replaced by the words “the anthem will be performed”. That Article 6, point 4, reads “on other occasions, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of BiH”, adds Article 5, and everything else in the article is deleted. Article 7 becomes Article 6 which is changed and reads: “The disregard of an anthem will be sanctioned”. Article 8 shall become Article 7. MPs of the House of Representatives adopted an anthem under the regular number 1 code Intermeco. It is up to this house to declare these three proposals of the BiH anthem and the law, of course. I'm opening a debate. Zoriæ, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u69	The Croatian People's Representatives' Club or Croatian MPs in this high house support everything passed by MPs at the PSBiH House of Representatives, proposing that the title of this law be: "The Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina".
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u70	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. I'd like representatives of the other clubs. Mr. Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u71	On behalf of the Bosniak Club, I fully support the law adopted by the House of Representatives, and in this context, the Bosniak Club will also support the law on implementation that was under regular number 1. We believe that the House of Representatives has made a very solid law and that we can adopt it and then adopt an anthem and a law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u72	I ask the representative of the Serbian Representatives' Club to plead so that we can continue the debate. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u73	Gentlemen chairman, honored guests, fellow delegates, on behalf of the delegates of the Serbian people, I would like to make a proposal, first of all, to say that we support all this which the House of Representatives adopted with these amendments and additions, by deleting the word state from the name of this law. We appreciate and support the need to pass an anthem law and adopt it, but if the text of the complete law deletes the names of the state, I don't know, I don't see any reason why the title would remain state. I support that with another fact. For all these laws that we have received, proposals, or draft laws, all that we have in the materials, there is no law of the BiH state, the law on administrative fees, customs duties, privatisation, and all those other laws, the laws of BiH, and nowhere in the BiH state, therefore there should be no exception. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Pajić. This is expected for me because, in general, in all the debates of the Bosniak side wherever it is possible to use the word state, it is not such a case with others which does not mean that others are against the state because they believe that this means that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state. Personally, I believe that both variants will mean that we have passed this law. Here you go, Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u75	I don't know what would bother it to stand for “The Law on the State Anthem” when Article 1, point 1, stands the continuity of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina whose official name will now be Bosnia and Herzegovina, it will continue its right to exist under international law as a state with an internal structure modified as defined here and with existing international recognised borders. It will remain a UN member state and may, as BiH, retain or apply for membership in an organisation within the UN system and other international organisations. I don't think the law can be passed regardless of one or another variant. The law cannot be adopted in two different texts. What the House of Representatives adopted, if we don't adopt the same text, then the law isn't passed. Therefore, since this is one of the vital interests, it is an anthem of the BiH state, I think we should take care of it and we cannot adopt it in different texts. If we adopt it in different texts, the House of Nations and the House of Representatives, then neither law nor anthem has been passed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u76	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. First Žigić, then Zorić. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u77	As far as the Bošnjak klub is concerned, Mr. Čampara said, and I wouldn't repeat it. I would just like to say, about the passed law at the House of Representatives, about the changes that have taken place in relation to this law, to warn and regarding the change of the name of the Law. The House of Representatives adopted the name of the BiH State Anthem Act. Also, about the changes that stand. The first member... reads: This law establishes the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as "the anthem"), as the amendment is in Article 1. In the bracket of the word state, therefore, nothing would essentially change the title and the members. If amendments were to be made to this amendment which would go on and on behalf of this law, Article 1 would also be amended, meaning that the law would be fundamentally changed in relation to the one adopted at the House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u78	Zoriæ, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u79	I thank Mr. Žigić, he asked me to make another suggestion. in Article 1, the wording states that the State shall be deleted. So Article 1 would read: this law lays down the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as "the anthem"). And here, it writes beautifully and defines its use as a symbol of the state. And that doesn't bother us and let it stand. If it is the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, if it is the flag of BiH, why would it bother to be an anthem of BiH? Also, I have suggestions, and I'm glad they have similar representatives from the Serb people, but I'm not clear that here is trying to explain to people who are constructively acting that their proposals don't work and come out without a proposal and explain that there's something wrong here and that, first of all, we have to be the service of the House of Representatives, not that. Let them coordinate with us the text. We accept everything they've brought, we only have two small changes, i.e. to delete the word of the State in the title and to delete the word of the State in Article 1, the word of the State shall be deleted. Nothing else. If we've accepted everything they've suggested, then I guess those two little changes that we're proposing here are going to happen.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u80	I thank Mr. Zorić. We all agree that no one has challenged here to be used as a symbol of the state. That's why we've pointed out enough that this is about the state because other things I don't think have an anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u81	Since we received what was delivered to us by the House of Representatives at the session, we did not have enough time to get to know all the details, so I support this initiative to remain in Article 1, at the end of the word of the states, thus confirming in some way the continuity, i.e. the integrity of BiH as a state. I also did not notice in Article 1, the time was short, that the word state, the fifth word, therefore, would also be deleted in the title state and the same 11 so that the article 1 would delete state and stand: this law establishes the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all that stands, as a colleague from the Croatian people suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u82	It's obvious here that in our country, a little more than in others, every word and comma is important. As far as I know, a lot of countries don't write states, I don't know, Mr. Šumaher is from a great country – is it said an anthem of the state of Germany or an anthem of Germany? It's called the United States anthem, as far as I know, like there's no state or anything special.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u83	Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you for giving me your word. I must say, I really didn't think such an intervention would be necessary. I just want to repeat what I already said at the House of Representatives. It really is not important whether your internal laws define Bosnia and Herzegovina's status as a state. It's up to the international community to make that decision. However, the community is unanimous, so on behalf of all members of the United Nations, it is believed that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a state. This was the reason why we did not have any objections to the fact that the predstavnički of Representatives made amendments to the Law and dropped the word “state” from two members of the Law. It was nothing important to us. But we now have a formal problem. I don't mind the authorities giving this house amendments to the law. But I would like to remind you that the international community, as well as the local public here in Bosnia and Herzegovina, welcomed the fact that the House of Representatives adopted the Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think it is of great importance that this House do everything your colleagues have done in the House of Representatives and that the Law be adopted in the form in which you are presented and adopted by the House of Representatives. I fear that even if it is not mentioned in your Rules of Procedure, there is one principle in all democracies in which parliament consists of two homes, that the second home can adopt the law only in that form and in that text in which it was adopted by the first home that adopted it. If you now make some amendments to this law, the law cannot be passed. You need to get him back to the House of Representatives. I think that would be an extremely negative signal. I therefore urge you to adopt this law in this form and under the title under which it was adopted by your colleagues at the House of Representatives, in order to allow the Presidency to make the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Šumaher. Are there any more debaters? Here you go, Šarčević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u85	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues. I would really like to thank you for this explanation by linking this explanation to Mr. Šumaher, given to this home. I have a feeling that at some point we're looking for some reason for something not to be what it's supposed to be. If we're talking about the 12 essences of the law that we need to pass, then he's clear and we're all saying he's basically fine and that's it. And now all of a sudden we've found and we want some kind of formal side, something that, in my opinion, and by all of this they've been discussing, doesn't matter if it's going to be one way or another. If we say and if that's what it is, which it is, that the state is a state, I don't know what reason it is now that it's called the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. If there's any reason, some essential reason in the law itself, I'd like to say what it is. And I'd like to pray that here, in fact, what was said earlier in that home, besides, it's not about the draft law, maybe it should have been predetermined already in the agenda, in the bill, so I suggest that it be passed in this form in which it is. We've heard explanations before, from the Dayton Agreement, so through our constitution, we've heard that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of the Dayton Agreement, etc., that it's not repeating here what was previously said, and I don't think there's really any reason to make any kind of deal, I'd say the complications, but the difficult time around all of this, because I don't see that it needs now for some formal, not essential reasons to bring this back to that home, to get it back on this, etc. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u86	Zorić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u87	The goal is from some political forces not to be home, and I'm not up for it. If we have to adopt everything the House of Representatives adopts, then there will be a big problem. I'm not up for big problems. What right is it to tell someone here about the bill when the agenda is established? Why are these essential questions? Those aren't essential questions. I, although coming from Bosnia and Herzegovina, have heard talk about the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I heard sports teams, any clubs or teams, watching TV in Mostar talk about the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And that is why I am for principled reasons that she is called the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I feel it for myself, not to wonder which nation it is, because it will quickly turn into a national anthem. This is the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, this is the flag of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I suggest we adopt an anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And one more thing I suggest - I propose that we declare the amendments here on the draft proposal rather than the amendments to the House of Representatives, because that is ultimately order.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Pajić - here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u89	I really need to get out again because I've started discussing this subject. I don't agree with my colleague at all that this is a bill. We've got the agenda where the bill stands. Therefore, we can put amendments to the draft of the Law and after the adoption of our amendment and remarks, only then to adopt the bill and there is no problem at all to establish the bill and return 13 to the House of Representatives for review, because I am asking the question now – why are we serving here, are we someone's service just to confirm everything others bring? Then there's no point in us coming here, if we have to bring everything anyone else brings, just confirm it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u90	Mr. Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u91	It's true that he writes the bill. This was also written in the House of Representatives session, I personally followed it, and the House of Representatives adopted the draft as the Bill's proposal and discussed it as the Bill's proposal and with all amendments that followed and the College adopted it as it adopted it. The home of the people, of course, does not have to adopt the Law as adopted by the House of Representatives. I said that the Bošnjak klub fully supports the adoption of the Law in the text adopted by the House of Representatives. Otherwise, since this is about the Law and the question of vital interest, we can discuss as much as you want today – we can pass the Law, we will not adopt an anthem if we continue like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u92	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. Here you go, Malić man.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u93	First of all, I would like to say that the representatives of the Serbian people here will certainly make a good effort to agree and to adopt this law as soon as possible, perhaps even today. Here, I'm giving my mood. But, gentlemen, there are some things we need to clarify here. We are responsible people here, and this is the House of Peoples, which exclusively protects the national interests of three peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The House of Representatives is home to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to clarify these matters clearly. And it's no accident that practice turned what it says in the Constitution. I'm really interested, and age... I'll see what's there. In Article 4. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the Parliamentary Assembly is said, I allow even if the translation is not accurate, but we will come to that. He says – The Parliamentary Assembly has two councils – the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. The House of the People is first processed, then the House of Representatives. So, absolutely, in terms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a form, this House is more important than the House of Representatives. But, by that, this, too, I'm not talking as a background so we don't properly finish this job that we need to finish today. Secondly, please, let's all of us who work here appreciate that other people have been doing something and it's not far from the matter I'm talking about. In Article 1 The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says: The Continuity – the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose official name will continue to be “Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the text goes on – will continue its legal existence under international law, as a state, which is undeniable. So it's going to function as a state with all state institutions and it's not in the name of its state, even though we all understand it as a state and we're building a framework for the Dayton Agreement and no one is against it. I say again, let us negotiate and see how we get out of 14 of this, but I fully agree and personally think that it cannot be the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina -- it can be the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u94	Mr. Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u95	Gentlemen chairman, respected fellow representatives, dear guests, I would like to, as president of the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, using yesterday's experience, just to remind myself of different behaviours, i.e. two different approaches when it comes to the encouragement and opinion of the Office of the High Representative. I didn't get a chance to speak to a high representative yesterday, nor do I want to use this stage for yesterday's session, but I'd like to say the point. Yesterday we were able to verify the signed Agreement between the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, or vice versa, on special relations. Article 13 of the Agreement stated that this Agreement was temporarily in force, and it is still to be confirmed in the homes as follows, and in particular it is clear from the letter of the Office of the High Representative, personally his Excellency, Mr Karlos Vestendorp. The president of the Federation of BiH, Mr. Lužanski, read the letter yesterday -- and again the letter he received personally -- incentivising that yesterday, after two months after the deadline for signing the agreement, the verification still takes place. Yesterday at the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH, the proposal, as an obligation, where it is written in the Agreement and signed temporarily, did not even enter the agenda. And on the agenda of our people, there was no proposal to even consider. So he fell down as a proposal, with an interpretation that it should be given to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament sooner, and then put it back, etc. Everyone said no one has anything against that agreement. And there's a sound here today - no one has anything against the anthem. This is where we heard three variations and nobody said anything about them today. Gentlemen, I'm asking-- did anyone say anything about hymns? It's nobody. About the fact that someone would like a more important home one or the other, I think, gentlemen, that a lot of conflicts have been, a difficult war on the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't know if anyone can assess and what dimension it is, to get to a peace agreement where the war is stopped and we've got the Dayton Constitution. In the Dayton Constitution, after that, was the obligation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Constitution of the Federation of BiH. We're just here, thank you, fellow Malić, for reminding us all of what's here and what's standing here. And particularly in support of the fact that the article 1 reads "This law determines the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as the national anthem)" – of course, it is then deleted and determined as the symbols of the state. I don't see anything more necessary than this symbol that says here, and I'm going to stay on these suggestions that we've made here. Is the problem, if we at the House of Nations, who, hand to heart, represent our peoples, care that sometimes this home and the order of maintenance, Mr. President, is first – forgive me. And just allow one more experience from the work of permanent bodies, as the Commission on Questions... where I was present as president earlier, I didn't even get official paper until 12 o'clock that the House of Representatives was supposed to deliver to this house since 10 February. And we got what the people's home yesterday sent, and it was held and finished yesterday at 7:00. So, like the Commission -- I'll come back later when that agenda point is, when it comes to immunity, there's nothing particularly controversial about it -- but I'm going to point 15 to the seriousness of doing this at home. I, therefore, support you, as chairman of this call, because I am experienced for that convocation, for two years, next to my colleagues – there are others sitting here – but this home has its own level, given the call of the past two years, and thank you, you have started well and continue to receive your position in this home. I'm not going to repeat here the words of some smart people who said that this home existed once, I don't know how many years ago, maybe we wouldn't have lived through the hell we've all lived here together. Excuse me, I want to give seriousness and access, first of all, to the home where I am, because I want to work as a serious man here. We can argue, and in the end I'd like to say, 420 DEM, or KM, I get in a month in this house, I won't and I won't give them up, I'm plainly saying, if it's just my job to confirm what the House of Representatives brought. I won't accept them, because it's the only thing that separates me from a man who doesn't come here. Nothing more. I thank and return them to whoever gave them here, because I know someone bloody earned them. I don't need them, I don't need them, if I'm sitting here just to raise my hands to the House of Representatives, in which, gentlemen, my people have six MPs of 42 or seven, so I won't, gentlemen, I'm here as a representative of the people, here only represented (?) Like a third, five out of 15, without any pretentious pretence to diminish other people's rights. With a clear desire and confirmation of the anthem, as well as my friends, therefore, consider it, and this anthem is sung and will be sung, and this flag here and this coat of arms did not get “yes” from me and from many MPs, from most MPs. They've been standing here since the Japan Olympics. As for that date, I'd rather talk about the Olympics, if I'm watching, I don't know exactly when she was, but I know she didn't get a "yes" either, and the anthem will sing, let's sing, someone dear, someone nice. I was as a boy rising up at some time and listening to “Berlin” because I shouldn’t listen to it during the day, listening, there was no CNN, so I listened to the glas of Amerika, etc. It's my right as a man, I have the right to speak, I have the right to believe, and I have the right to listen to what I like. Respecting all these things, but, gentlemen, the intrusion will not pass, if it passes here in this bench, I will only remind you of one thing, I apologize, Mr. President, this BiH has had its coat of arms at the beginning of this century, it lasted for 16 years, only then the OHR was someone else, I don't know what it was called, Benjamin Kalaj or anything like that. I ask you as friends and colleagues here, does anyone remember what that coat of arms looked like, he was 16 years old, valid for 16 years? We might find some historian among us to know what the BiH coat of arms looked like then. Let this anthem be accepted, we are working to be accepted and to live as such. I'm, again, saying, for any of these variants, she's music, I'm not gifted musically too, but, well, I can tell the difference stronger than the weak, and I'm up for it, and here, gentlemen, on some formalities, this is a formality for me. I mean, I speak plainly. If it says the symbol of the state, friends, MPs, I know you don't have to agree with me, but I call you, frankly, let the thing here be a consensus made, give and give rise to our home. Thank you. I apologize for talking a little longer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Marković. Before I give my word to Mr. Žigić, I can tell everyone's discussion. All Bosniak representatives will interpret this as okay. Two others I think will interpret the other way around. We can just spin around in circles. It would be good if we took a little 16 break to do some consulting, to try this job right, because this is a really important question, we're on the best track to solve it, we've adopted the essence of the problem, i.e.. Anthem, I mean, we're going to adopt, it's obvious, and this second one, it seems to me that far less important is what we're trying to prove right now. Here you go, Mr. Žigić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, By respecting Mr Marković, indeed, and the right to express his opinion on everything he feels is to say here, I think it is wrong to transfer the ambience and the problems we have, if we have, from the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH to resolve the issues that we are in charge of, regardless of what both homes are meant to protect the interests, or, representatives in those homes, protect the interests of their peoples who have chosen them to be. If we were to transfer to the House of Peoples an atmosphere from individual cantons, then that home of the people would never respond to the assignments. If we were to transfer the atmosphere of the work of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to this home of the people, this home of the people should not even meet. I'm not talking vista ugly, I'm talking about the complexity of the problem we have on the ground, and if we were to transfer all these problems to this home, then this house wouldn't even make sense to discuss, or to meet, because it certainly wouldn't be able to solve much. If we were to follow events, as Bošnjak and as representative of our party, (how could this House not be held this morning) (?) Because the elemental right of MP Osmmančević, from my party, to the RS, in the Assembly, was compromised, etc. We wanted to overcome certain problems in this home the visas of each home, each parliament has its own tasks, its level of discussion and the transfer to several levels of this problem. It can only happen if we can't solve it. Here we confused the Law of Anthem and what was happening yesterday in the House of Peoples. That is why I would ask, with respect for the right to be brought forward, because the right to bring out everything we think about, to concentrate as MPs or advocates in this House to solve this problem. Also, if things are of a formal nature, i.e. more formal or not, I don't know how Mr. Marković expressed himself, I think there's an expression here, let me forgive me for not precisely interpreting it, not essentially, then I really suggest that I confirm this Mr. Šoljić's proposal to take a short break and try to reach a solution and adopt this law in that respect so that we can get into effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u98	Thank you, Mr. Žigić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u99	Dear President, dear colleagues, I just wanted to say something in terms of what Mr. Žigić said. I think that the inadequate comparison of what was happening yesterday at the House of Peoples of the 17 Parliaments of the Federation of BiH and at this home. We talked yesterday about the procedural violation of the BiH Constitution, and today we are talking about a formal, as counterpart Pero says, formal matter in the proposals Mr. Pero made. I would especially remind you that no blame should be attributed to anyone here why this home should go after the one, or the one after this, if we have listened carefully to the explanation from the High Representative here, then we have heard that it is normal that the home that is then being maintained is costing and making decisions as previously held home has made, and certainly not home to this more important or more important one. Niko of us here asked or asked for this home to be maintained after that home, and remember only yesterday that the Bosniak Representatives Club asked to put the signing of the special agreement on the agenda today, we clearly asked for it to be on the agenda here today, he didn't find himself, I don't know why, so he'll probably be back at the House of Representatives before he gets here, so he'll come back again that we're underrated by that home. And I especially accept this so that an anthem can be seen as, it says, as a national, so for these very reasons, not to be national, which bothers her to bear the name state, if it's state, and we all say it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u100	Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u101	Well, I don't agree with two representatives. It makes more sense for me that we at BiH level, and in the first House, according to the Constitution, are discussing lower homes, and who gave it for the right yesterday at least ten debaters from the House of Nations, in the order of the Bosniak people, to determine the agenda for homes higher by level. So, they say yesterday, I will also mention what it was yesterday “let it go to the agenda of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives of the PS of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, so how come we right from the municipal council propose what will be done in the homes of the Federation of BiH or RS, and the upper homes, in fact, the homes of the higher institutions can talk about the lower, even desirable to talk. It is desirable for us here to talk about what is happening in the Federation of BiH and in RS, because it is all together BiH, but to talk yesterday about what will be placed here on the agenda... Who determines the agenda here, determines us, which is the last session, and then the one that's held last. What's sooner, chicken or egg? I don't know that. I suggest that the House of Representatives agree the law as we agree here, because, ultimately, you see the problem, the problem is in the Bosniak People's Club, they don't want to pass this law, just as they didn't want to adopt the agenda yesterday from one point. It is clear that if it is not a big question, and I do not think it is a big question of whether to write that anthem of BiH, I suggest that all three clubs adopt it, and I used the telegram to be invited by Mr. High Representative to change the decision, not to have five Hrvat in this high house in the HDZ order, to give one to the others, and on the basis of the call by telegram we came and changed that decision, so we changed it once again. Have the House of Representatives call in a telegram and agree with this first, according to the Constitution of the House, the PS of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 18 And here again on behalf of the Croatian MPs' club, I propose that we vote first and declare on the amendment of our MPs, and only then on the amendments adopted and proposed by the House of Representatives. I support the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u102	It's Mr. Ljubičić, then Čampara.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u103	Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the international community, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, listening to all these comments, I think we can all conclude how complex the situation is in BiH, or how much BiH, as an internationally recognised state, is, however, complex. When I was delegated to this home and when I accepted that choice and finally came to the first session of this home here, I came and accepted it with one basic in the beginning of the assumption that I was coming to one high home, as one of the homes of internationally recognised BiH, I came to one of my thinking that I must respect the problems that are present in BiH, when I say in BiH, then I think of one and the other entity, then I think of all three people who lived and lived in BiH, I came with an opinion, which I represent and now, to respect all the people who live in BiH, to respect and respect their will, their rights, which are defined, means, in Dejton, as one basic act that regulates a lot of things at the level of BiH, and which has given me certain opportunities to agree within these parliaments and common bodies, as well as to give rise to other people, entities and bodies, bodies, and bodies, and bodies, which are recognised to the institutions, and bodies, as well as individuals, when I's. Today, what is being said, look at the events that are present in the PF, which are present in the PRS, and even today what we hear, practically confirms what I just said, the complexity, means, BiH as a state, and I personally think that all of this requires maximum respect, maximum tolerance, maximum respect for the rights of people, the people who live in BiH, because that is the only way that we can come up with certain solutions and solutions still a lot of issues or problems that burden BiH, means that both entities are burdening. What was done on the Representative's Council, personally, I think, and I argue, that's my personal position, that one big job has been done. We are also on our way today to finish this job, and I would like to, too, and I support the thinking of certain debates here of the previous, when it comes to the role, position and importance of the people's homes. The competencies are clearly appointed and divided by the Council of Ministers, then the BiH presidency, as well as this BiH Parliament, or one and the other home. Therefore, I fully respect such a single solution that he has proposed and, therefore, defined these common bodies and institutions, precisely on the basis of what I just said, how complex BiH is as an internationally recognised state. Personally, I think that in all of this no one denies internationally recognised BiH, what Croatian representatives are asking for, and what the representatives and the Serbian people are asking for, I also respect the insistence of the representatives of the Bosniak people, I really appreciate it, but 19 are asking them to respect both thinking and one assessment and vision, meaning these other sides. I don't really see, in all this, that BiH, in what is sought, as an internationally recognised state, that it is denied, I don't see it. It's supported by these two clubs, so it's exactly how it's defined and how it's made and it's the only way it can survive and live. I think we're close to a solution, I'm really asking all the MPs in this house that, here, after this break he suggested and the chairman, Mr. Šoljić, that we can find a solution and make an effort, because we're close, I don't think we should further complicate this, I say, we're not far, we're close, and I think we can find a solution. So, with one respect, that means all this stuff I just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ljubičić. Before I give you my word, Čampar and Ristan, let me just say a few words. There is no doubt that the anthem is an eminent political issue, a question of equality, and it is a decision for a long time. It must be brought in so that we do not rise to the sounds of the anthem because we must, but because we will, which is good for us. Therefore, the anthem must be brought at a maximum high level of security, if possible unanimously. Only such an anthem and only a state in which we will be equal and equally satisfied has a future. Everything else, I assure you, is the wrong way. So I'm asking you to let these two discussions be heard, and let's take a short break and try to find a solution for the hymns to be that way so we can be unanimous in this room. Zoric, I'm trying to balance so we can hear two important discussions. Let us hear these two discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u105	Mr. Zorić, allow the chairman to take the lead. First of all, I don't want to talk about which home is more important, whether it's the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples. The constitution has determined the function of both home and home. You can't vote in any of the other homes, just so you know. The home of the people is a dam that protects the people and no one here can outvote anyone, that we're clear, and that's the same thing in the House of Representatives. You've all got the Interim Rules of Procedure. It is stated in the Interim Rules of Procedure that meetings of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples are held first as a rule. In exceptional cases, if there are reasons for this, then comes the first session of the House of Peoples. It's precisely because the House of Peoples is a defense that something doesn't happen that shouldn't happen in the interest of all three peoples. That's one thing. Secondly, I cannot accept Mr Zorić's discussion to say the Bošnjak will not do an anthem, Bosniak delegates, Bog forbid. You said it was us, take a stenogram and look. We are for the anthem and we are for the same text of the anthem, I would even dare say this performance adopted by the House of Representatives. I have watched, gentlemen, all MPs and Serbian nationalities here, except, I think, those of the SDP opposition, and Bosniak nationalities adopted this text in the House of Representatives. No MP who was here, not from the Coalition, not from the HDZ, nor from yours was against 20 of those texts, and the anthem, you know, was seen, adopted when the discussion was whether it was public or secret – when it was public, then you saw everyone raise their hand and adopt that anthem. So no one here is going to outvote anyone. He can't outvote it, it doesn't give the Constitution. Therefore, if three MPs, from any nation now – whether Bosniak, whether Croatian, whether Serbian does not vote for that text, say, or what is proposed, there is no law, no anthem. So no one here can outvote anyone, that's clear to us, and it should be clear to everyone, nor can they outvote them in the House of Representatives. That's what the gentleman knows, no one can outvote or outvote, but they've adopted how they adopted it. Besides, there's also a stenogram and a video. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u106	Thank you. Just a little explanation, I just thought I'd hear two discussions about how our break would result. I know, if we were to stick to the formality, that's a little different, but I'm allowing myself a little more rights, because I'm chairing. Here you go, Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed Presidency, the esteemed Mr. Šumaher, I would say here the way it goes in BiH. I agree with one, with a second and a third opinion, however, this is only about the excess of the change, as far as I can see, there is no fundamental misunderstanding at all. It is understood that BiH is a state made up of two entities, three equal peoples, etc. However, there is something here to prejudge. In our literature and grammar, it is known that what is meant is not written. We just said that BiH is a state that is made up of two entities, three peoples and here someone, I don't mind at all. This law establishes BiH's national anthem, but there is another BiH anthem. Maybe there's a complete misunderstanding and we'll try to resolve this misunderstanding on this break. If there is another BiH anthem, then this one can be state-owned. It could not have been settled here without the fundamental question whether we agree with this performance of the anthem, the law of the anthem, it was unanimously adopted, it seems that no one cares, and something of the BiH national anthem is prejudged. The coat of arms is BiH, the flag of BiH, then it can be BiH's national anthem. I don't want any longer, we'll take a break later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u108	Thank you. A half-hour break. [[PAUZA]] We continue with the work of the 3rd session of the PSBiH People's House. 21 The Croatian Representatives Club asked for a break, so I ask the president of the club to come out and state his position.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u110	Since the Croatian Representatives' Club was convinced that it was a draft proposal, we thought that today it would only be discussed and that it would then appear on our benches and in our materials. However, we have been informed that the High Representative has further informed this home that it is the bill's proposal, so the Croatian Representatives' Club has tabled two amendments to the proposed Law. Amendment I - would be in the title of the Law, therefore, in the title of the Law to delete the word “state”, i.e. The draft title of the Law is “The Law on the Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina”. amandman ii to Article 1 behind the word “determined” to delete the words “state”, i.e. Article 1 would read: “This law lays down the anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina (hereinafter referred to as the Himna) and defines its use as the symbols of the state.” Explanation: By adopting these amendments, the Law would be brought into line with the term of the already applicable BiH Symbols Law (the BiH coat of arms and the Law on the flag of BiH). This is what I propose on behalf of the Croatian MPs in this House. The chairman has already received amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u111	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. I'm opening a further discussion. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u112	Gentlemen Chairman, dear colleagues, After this break where we have tried to agree with the High Representative, and in some way do not opportunize, i.e., agree with the views and with our House of Representatives, we have come to the following position: The State Anthem Act at this point, in this text proposed, we will most likely not accept for the reason why we are willing to vote for an anthem in the music section and if we agree, it would seem not all clubs, to make a political decision, that after the conditional adoption of this law, as proposed by Mr Šumaher, that the House of Representatives in its next session from the title cast “Stateship”, then we could vote for this law. So, if the clubs are willing to support a political decision, that the predstavnički of Representatives discusses at its next session and out of the title of this bill, we would absolutely support Mr. Šumaher's proposal and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u113	I've never been in a position to go out like this. The Bošnjak Club cannot accept any proposals made by Mr Zorić and Mr Tošić. The Bošnjak Club remains in the process of adopting the text of the Law adopted by the House of Representatives and the Bosniak Club will adopt an anthem adopted by the House of Representatives and then that is true. You can't adopt an anthem without the law, it's absurd. That's one thing. And secondly, we have no right to make any decisions to ask the House of Representatives to kick out of the Law state, because we are here, as the House of Peoples, Bošnjak – delegates, who we vote for. Therefore, since this is a law of vital interest, if everyone stays in their positions, there is no law or an anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u114	We've come to a position that, when we adopt an anthem, we shouldn't come, and my assessment doesn't meet the conditions for the anthem to be adopted, and we're going to vote on it. I mean, there are no conditions to adopt an anthem in that sense in which Mr. Čampara said. It is my opinion that today we have had the opportunity to adopt a solemn song that would be played, i.e., practiced on occasions as mentioned in the Law, but because of the attitudes that in some way strengthen or weaken, do, in this way or in that way, closer to one people or two other peoples, I think the situation is such that we can approach the vote on Mr Zorić's amendment, and then on the Law as a whole. Here you go, Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u115	Since our club thought Mr. Šumaher's suggestions would somehow accept the other two clubs, we're looking for a short break of two minutes before the vote just to finally agree. So, little consultations to make.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u116	Yeah, just one note for you. Let your attitude be clear and written, lest I be in the dilemma as chairman. One thing. The other thing, keep in mind that the law will be passed or not adopted, it cannot be passed that it has and does not exist. Therefore, your attitude must result in us adopting or not adopting this law and in what form. So I'd just like it to be clear. Break five minutes. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing our work. The Serbian MPs' club asked for a break, please the representative to state his position. 23 Please, Jadranko, write down... that if we don't agree, we might be able to find out. ? We continue to believe that this compromise Mr. Šumaher should have been accepted, because we know what problems we will face in the alignment of this law and with the House of Representatives. Since he did not come across the support of the other two clubs – Bosniak and Croatian, you go with the vote, we will plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u119	The proposal of the Serbian Representatives' Club was clear. However, the Croatian Representatives' Club has not declared whether it will support it or because we cannot declare it before the amendment. It is important to see what will happen with the amendments and we have not made it clear whether we support the political agreement or not, and it should not be said that the other two clubs were not in favour, but one was explicitly against it. That's all, correction.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u120	Mr. Čampara, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u121	I have said this before, and I say now, that I consider this law of vital interest to all three peoples – both Serbian, Croatian and Bosniak. Therefore, in that sense, I believe that there is a need to vote, both on the law and on the amendments. And if all three people don't get at least three MPs, then there are no laws or amendments. Here you go, Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u122	I answered the question so that I would just supplement what Mr Tošić has mentioned here, because of the other MPs who did not attend the conversation with Mr Šumaher, in Mr Šoljić's office. Mr. Zorić gave an explanation, so, which I accept, because I think his position here is correct, compared to what Mr. Tošić said. I would like, for the sake of the other MPs, to say that it is in complexity now in the adoption of this law. Mr Šumaher, according to me and the RS MPs, has proposed a compromise solution that we consider to be so. I think that we felt one part of the support, meaning, among the MPs of the Croatian people in this regard, and Mr. Šumaher's proposal was to adopt today at this session a full House of Representatives' House or Representatives' Council Act, and to make a political decision with the adoption of this law to return this law to the Representative's Council for Supplement, in part of the text, in the part of the text, in that sense 24 where the corrections were made in the original proposed law, means, in the case of a correction where the term “state” is mentioned, in the title and in the first sentence of the text of this law, by remaining in the first sentence of the text, the part where the anthem is considered as a symbol of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this sense, Mr Šumaher's proposal was, as far as I was able to present it, and we believe that it was a compromise solution to adopt this law on the Council of Nations today and to return to the Council of Representatives' procedure in part for further alignment in part of the text, because, in practice, in that part of the text and on the Representative Council, corrections were made in relation to the original proposed text of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u124	When the law is adopted in the same text at both homes, then each MP has the right to propose amendments and supplement that law. So, what he meant by that Mr. Šumaher, you can call him, I don't know, but we remain in that law to be adopted only in the same text as the House of Representatives adopted him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u125	Thank you, Mr. Čampara, so if you do as Mr. Čampara said, then this law is considered adopted, and the political decision is an initiative for change, but, about that – then, when it comes to order, perhaps by year, perhaps never. So let's be perfectly clear here. I will not prejudge anything, just to be absolutely clear, unless this law is adopted, it is considered in the same text as adopted, and the political decision is considered an initiative for a change that does not have to be adopted, i.e. to be adopted by the same procedure. So here we're quite clear. Now we can take the vote on the amendments, and then after that we will decide whether or not we will vote on the whole law. So we have basically three suggestions. The first proposal is a vote on amendments. The second proposal will be to vote on the position of the Serbian Representatives' Club to adopt the law as such, with an automatic recommendation to carry out an agreement before publication. And then we vote on the law that came to the House of Representatives. Clubs, if it's vital interest, vote separately. Is there a need for the Croatian club to declare itself about the amendments that are itself? We can satisfy the formality. So, I propose that the Croatian Representatives' Club vote on amendments to the proposed law. Well, here's the form to satisfy If it's vital interest, then we vote. [[STAMMERS]] In order – first we will vote, because there is no dispute, it is also clear that the form is satisfied. 25 I call on the Croatian Representatives' Club to vote for their own amendments. Who's in? Unanimity. I call the Bosniak Representatives' Club – who's in favour? There isn't. Who's against it? Everybody's against it. It's completely clear. I'm calling the Serbian Representatives' Club, who's in favour? Who's against it? Restraint? All abstentions. Okay. The amendments, I say, are not accepted. Zoriæ, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u126	It's a new situation now, we can't invest any more amendments, I'm looking for a five-minute break. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u127	We're going back to work. We asked for a break just for a vote. Therefore, we approach the vote. The next vote is on the Serbian side's proposal, which interpreted Mr. Šumaher's proposal to take the first step, i.e. to adopt the Law with the proposal and the attitude to agree with the attitude of this home, which is to amend the title of the law in the proposal of this House of Representatives. Is the Serbian side's position clear? We think it's vital interest, as well as the Bosniak side, so I demand a separate vote on it. As just before, she first voted in favour of the party that gave the initiative, please representatives of the Serbian club vote. Who's in favour of the Serbian Representatives' Club proposal? Unanimity. I'm asking the Bosniak side to come forward. Who's in? Serbian side proposal? No one. Restraint? Against? Okay. The form is that the Croatian side also votes because, practically, this amendment does not pass, but I call on the Croatian side to vote. Who's in? I don't need to ask against it, because all five candidates are for it. In other words, this means that the amendments, due to the rejection of Bosniak representatives, are not accepted. Then comes the third proposal – the vote on the Law in two parts. First we vote on what version of music we adopted, the music version we adopted, because without it we can't vote on the law 26 But how do we know which version we adopted? [[STAMMERS]] So we're voting on versions. [[STAMMERS]] Do you know the names of the versions? The first version is INTERMECO. The other one is...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u128	I think we should vote on the law and be an integral part of that version that gets the required majority.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u129	He can't, Avdo, just what you think. There's more to the vote than the music part, and then we fit it into the law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u130	He fits if we agree with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u131	First, it votes on the musical, or musical part. First it was Intermeco. There was no dispute when we listened to it, and now it was slow. Avdo, here you go. There's no problem, if we're going to go unfair, there's a way to do it, there's one vote for the first, the other for the second, the third for the third and there's no anthem, it's the same. I'm talking about a way to adopt this anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u132	It's all right, Mr. President, but the anthem becomes an integral part of the law. We'll adopt it once we've passed the law, we can't pass it without the law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u133	Article 3 speaks of the state anthem as an integral part of the orchestra that is in addition to this law. The elements of the law, if we're going to vote on additions to the law, and then on the basis of the law, then we're wrong. First we vote on what is the basis, then some of the supplements and the components of that law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u134	Thank you. Here you go, Zorić. 27
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u135	Correction of the wrong allegation, since I was able to convince me that amendments adopted at the House of Representatives had become an integral part of the proposal, then I do not see how Mr. Žigić came to be in Article 3 of the State Anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u136	Then an anthem, an anthem, too. It's a good lapus, but read the rest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u137	It can't, but it was adopted in the House of Representatives. I only went out to correct the wrong allegations. The Croatian MPs' club proposes that we first declare the musical part.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u138	Is there a record? As far as I have information, the House of Representatives first passed the law, then the musical part, then together. So, without together, there is no.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u139	Gentlemen chairman, here we go. I'm gonna get back to you on this agenda point one more time. Mr Ljubičić has already said, and I also want to repeat, I came here, first of all, as a representative of the Serbian people, to represent the interests of the Serb people, but not in any case to the harm of any people in BiH. I will respect the will and interests of all the nations, but, above all, clearly, I will represent the interests of my people. Again and again, I repeat, not just to the harm of any nation of two entities. I will always try, as we tried this time, to look for compromises, because if we continue as hard as this that we are hard-line towards each other, there will never be any concrete solutions. I will always try to look for compromises so that we can work in this home and, in the end, make strong and rightful decisions. On the occasion of the vote, it is my position, and I think the other delegates in the order of the Serb people, to choose one out of the three options offered, because I suppose we'll all agree here. So let's go to the road where we can get along, and only in the end to leave the issues that we need to agree on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u140	Thank you. Zoriæ, go ahead. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u141	Yeah. I also have to represent my people's interests here, but also the club that I am at the head of, and it's hard for me to listen all day to how we have to accept what the House of Representatives has adopted, how all their amendments become a proposal for us, and when my colleague Tošić proposed an initiative that he literally transferred from one of our working meetings with Mr. Šumaher, then this initiative refuses, for God's sake, we can't offer anything to the House of Representatives as an initiative. I'm against that kind of work. I agree with Mr. Pajić to adopt the one where we are expected to agree. And I am convinced that all three clubs and all present representatives here will agree on the musical part and that he will be, I am convinced, I say, and the vote will probably confirm it, and he will be identical to that of the House of Representatives. Well, then let's move on, because no one mentioned today, from those of us present, that there was a musical suggestion of the anthem. The Croatian MPs' club supports Mr. Pajić's proposal to vote on the music section first.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u142	Here you go, Šarčević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u143	I wouldn't repeat this if I were representing the interests of one, the other, the third, etc., I guess it's clear why we're here. However, I would accept, that is, I think that what the chairman said is in place, there's nothing brought in if we're not one and the other, so together... As the chairman said the vote on legal...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u144	That's how they voted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u145	If we go the other way, then we go from what is not, from what is less important, that is, irrelevant from the supplement. Like Mr. Žigić... we're going to vote on the supplement, and then we're going to vote on something that's essential and what's the core. I think it's acceptable to vote on the legal text, after the musical part, and eventually together. I don't see any reason why it would be different now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u146	If we're not gonna pass the law, let me know, we won't. We won't vote on music first either, then the law. Let's be clear and get it over with. There's no law, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u147	I, as chairman, would use the right to suggest something, and if we don't, then we'll take this point down, we'll postpone, there's time. 29 It's about the next one. That Mr. Ljubičić's proposal, which I fully agree with, is that we do what we can do, which means that it is undeniable to adopt music, i.e. the music of an anthem that will be the future anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So that first step is done. We give space to adopt the whole law, we give Vestendorp less trouble with how to solve the problem, because there's already half of it, practically, the essence solved, and then where to sing, when to sing, about it. So my suggestion is that we vote on three versions, three tunes we've heard as a musical part. Whether it's vital interest or not, let every club be determined. If so, clubs vote separately. So we're voting separately. I ask the Croatian side to declare which proposal is musical. Who's for the first piece of music, for Intermeco? The first vote is the Croatian club. For Intermeca? Serbian MPs' club. Who's for the music or music part of Intermeco? Roger that. The Bosniak part, who's in?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u148	We don't want to plead this way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u149	They don't want to make a statement, it's their right, their voice. I don't think there are any conditions for today to vote on the law as a whole. As such, the Law was not adopted today. We're going to the next item on the agenda. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Immunity This law was on the Commission, please the representative, i.e. the President of the Commission, to state his position under this law, if any.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u150	I'm a man of my word and I'm wearing a mustache. Tossic, you might as well be one of the words. They say it's from the words of those who wear mustaches, Tošić, you have a chance. As President of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, on the basis of Article 5(3) of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I present a report to the House of Peoples on the 2nd session. Today, the Commission held its meeting, with five members present. The Commission had one item on the agenda and took a position, following a debate on the Amendments and Supplements Act, the Commission supported amendments to which the Legislative proposal was given by the Commission to the House of Representatives on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum. We support 30 amendments that are an integral part of the House of Representatives' proposal, you've got them. If you need to specifically talk about it, I can, and I don't think there's any need, because you got them. In general, it is argued that the right of immunity, in addition to those in the Law of the numbered persons from institutions, extends to persons working in institutions in time while on duty and while in transport from house to job. I think that's the way it is in this proposal. If you need an exact quote, I'll read it. I will read the conclusions that have become an integral part of the House of Representatives proposal. 1. That the immunity of all persons provided for by the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Immunity Act is greater (?) during the conduct of operations for the joint institutions and for the journey between institutions and the place of permanent and temporary stay with which the identity, i.e. the identification, needs to be harmonised. 2. Article 4 The proposed law shall add the words of the competent authorities for the confiscation of immunity to persons referred to in Article 3a. (in your opinion there is no letter a.) These are the laws. Article 7 shall comply with Article 2a. In Article 7, as amended by Article 4, words will not be replaced by words, they will be suspended, referred to the procedure. I think it's clear, if there are any misunderstandings, we're here, we can explain. It is an extension of the number of persons who will have immunity and whose identity cards will be specifically entered into a text that is not identical to this text that had persons under the previous law. It is thought of members of the BiH presidency, it is thought of representatives in homes, not to count them, it is thought of the judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH. This was the Serbian Club's initiative, we owe it to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marković. I'm opening a debate under this amendment. If there's no debate about whether it's vital interest, is there any club to express that this is vital interest? There isn't. Who's in favor of this adjudication? Do you mind? Restraint? One abstention, the others for? The amendment has been accepted and as such becomes an integral part of the law. We're going to the next item on the agenda. The election of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the organisation You have it with you, so that we do not waste time reading. You have a proposal, that is, adopted by the House of Representatives. Do you all have that memo? I have submitted to you a request, or a proposal by Mr Vestendorp, that, because of the better representation of opposition, opposition parties, an extension request be submitted for another member. I personally and the Croatian Club support it. 31 Do You Support? Can we accept the same proposal adopted by the House of Representatives, with a letter from Mr. Vestendorp, to direct Genjac and I together to the Council of Europe to allow us another place, and to make opposition, opposition parties agreements whose place it is, means that this is not our problem. I think it's a very rational solution that we all benefit from together. Who's in? And this item of the agenda has been adopted. We have a decision to establish a temporary secretariat or secretariat of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You have a decision to make. We've considered it before. I'm opening a debate. If there is no debate, do we accept such a decision? Who's in? Against? Restraint? Unanimity. One supplement. I propose that one member of this two from each nation be required to be present at Parliament in this part that is official in Parliament, that this is an obligation until further notice. If, later on, when it is formulated, we conclude that it is one person, okay, but minimum until the secretariat is formed, that it is one representative of these two chosen. That it's just a work obligation. I don't think we should vote on that, that's one recommendation you approve of. Six members and 30 days. To be clear, the discrepancy is solved by six members of 2+2+2 and 30 days. I had 60 days to adopt these differences. That within 30 days, this task force, the temporary secretariat or the secretariat, will create an organization that we, as the House, will adopt. I ask the temporary secretary's gentlemen how did it come to be that the Serbian side has a different decision, 6 articles, and the Croatian and Bosniak sides have 5 articles? Wrong. If there's a disagreement, whose version is the right one? So the next item is absolute. The next item is the draft framework law on the privatisation of companies and banks. It is at the request of Mr. Vestendorp, as part of the Privatisation Act. We have also held consultations on this Law between ourselves and Mr. Šumaher. I'm opening a debate on this. Here you go. Mr. Ljubičić. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u152	Dear gentlemen, we respect this proposal by Mr. Westendorp. In the interview and in preparation before the meeting of today's council of people and in the conversation and agreement with Mr. Šumaher, we ask the council of the people to declare one of our requests and suggestions. We have accepted the adoption of this point in the agenda, so, in addition to today's agenda and to go further into the procedure, for the reason that the proposal of this point, practically, we get today, so, this law, we get today, we ask and we propose to the Council of People to allow us to carry out only supplementary consultations with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and we suggest that this goes to the next session of the Council of Nations. We have been informed by Mr. Chairman that a new session of the National Council is scheduled to take place on 18.3. that we will use this session for the working part as well, so please and suggest that this be postponed only until the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u153	Thank you. Is there a discussion on this? Here you go, Mr. Herce.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u154	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, I thought that we would now absorb this last item without a problem. I would only remind myself of the head or chapter III of the Madrid Declaration, i.e. this Article 4.1, and 4.2, where, starting with this term announced for the next meeting of the PS BiH House, the Council is finely saying, “The Council expects the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to be here until 1 March '99. the year has adopted all the laws that have brought the High Representative to the provisionality so far." I'd like to have that in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u155	I would say this, we should absolutely respect the Madrid Declaration, but we should respect reality, life, and I think that at the request of Mr Ljubičić, and in the presence of Mr Šumaher, we will make more efforts, this is a greater obligation to the Serbian side, because they have sought consultations, the Croatian side of this law can adopt today. Our club has already practically accepted this law. Therefore, and Bosniak, so I'm in favour of the variant, it won't bother Šumaher and Vestendorp anything, on the contrary, is their consent to give time to consult with the RS government and their position is now, and the opinion is that the law will be accepted without a problem. But because of the problem that every side of us here has internally, I think it's good to show flexibility, which Herceg used the term, which is quite enough and good. 33
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u156	We regard this law as very important and important for both RS and, normally, we find it very important and important to adopt it on the common bodies of BiH. If we had received this law at least earlier, we practically got it today, we would certainly have come to this session with certain attitudes. That's one of the reasons why we asked this to just postpone for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u157	I propose that the request of the Serbian side be adopted, that this law, that we do not waste time, means, automatically today, without the College, means that we, as the House, adopt it as one of the points of the agenda 18.3. Why 18.3? Because the representatives of the European Parliament are coming, that is, the chairman, the Minister of Hungary, and then we will be together, and then we will take advantage of our arrival and hold a session, if we cannot be here, we will find a smaller hall and we will realize it. There is another thing, a visit to Bulgaria that was planned, was a request called the North Atlantic Alliance Assembly, in co-operation, with the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, as part of the ROZ initiative, to organise a seminar for parliamentarians from 11 to 13 March '99. the year on the topic “Region security and co-operation in Europe”. It is a very high-ranking event, there will be representatives of parliaments and mostly high officials, indicatively, 60-100, people from all over Europe. That's why we've been thinking about setting up a high delegation of our home, I thought it was the three of us, but I have obligations that I have to do personally, because I'm sitting on the other side, the Croatian side will appoint a representative, please, by tomorrow each of the clubs, it would be best if you do so now, determine your member. So, the Serbian side has declared, Mr. Ljubičić, if one of us falls off for other reasons, there is no problem, in principle, Mr. Žigić, so you will agree, and the Croatian side will also determine its representative. All right, here you go. _______________: We saw today that there was a problem with one item of the agenda today, I learned from Mr. Šumaher that the session of the House of Representatives would be March 17th, so 17th, and here I hear again that the session of our home will be 18.3. I suggest that our session be before, due again to any accidents around the same agenda point. So, let her be 15 or 16, because I hear the 17th is coming some high-level delegation. Let us do something, because then we'll have time today, we hear we don't have time, and eventually we see that the boycotted vote is. I suggest we have before the House sessions and then the House of Representatives, eventually, because there are dates that we can agree if necessary. Maybe we wouldn't have to keep voting today. There's no need for us to decide today, anyway, the three of us determine when it's going to be. I thought we could use the arrival, which doesn't mean 34 can be a crucial factor, etc. We'll agree, therefore, to leave us with the possibility by 17 at the latest, that is, when she can... There is another conclusion, because here comes a lot of proposals from MPs, directly to the House of Representatives, to this House of Peoples. The House of Representatives has reached one conclusion with you regarding the procedure for proposals made by individual representatives or any other institution to this home. We agreed at the College this morning, that this conclusion goes with only one sentence of the supplement, which is “to be in line with the Framework Programme of the work of this House”, there is no dispute, in order to, in some ways, direct future promoters to stick to the work programme. Can we adopt this conclusion with the addition of the “Home Work Programme”. Who's in? Mr. Đoko, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u159	Gentlemen chairman, fellow delegates, I have one proposal and one initiative. The proposal is that at these sessions we get records from the previous session. Can you do that? Because today we had a record from last session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u160	Excuse me, immediately solved the problem, fax at the same time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u161	We don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u162	So it's not slow, it is or isn't, college has everyone today, so as soon as it's done, it's over, and then we adopt it, the normal thing, at the session. It's Rajka. Initiative, we know what's been going on since '92. '95. in these areas. There were all sorts of things, and now it's ours to try to correct the mistakes and injustices that have been done both to one and the other and to the third people and individuals in all three peoples and in both entities. After the Dayton Agreement was signed, the trials continued on both sides. In my deep conviction, many people who haven't done anything, but they were members of this people, there were political trials and everything else, I think it's time for us to correct those mistakes 35. I have reliable data that there are convicted persons from the Serb people's ranks in prisons in the Federation of BiH, I suppose there are also in prisons in RS people who have been tried politically. I propose to the Human Rights Commission that we all provide data if we have these data, and there are, that the Human Rights Commission consider it and propose to the competent authorities in both entities to initiate a pardon, amnesty, etc. persons who are wrongly convicted. For all those who committed war crimes and who committed crimes, it was okay, they were tried, they were convicted, but yet I appeal to innocent people who lie in prisons, either there or here, they should try to amnestize them. I propose to all parties, if they have such people, to deliver this to our Human Rights Commission, and to the Commission to propose to the competent authorities, to the judiciary, to the justice ministry in one and another entity, to the BiH Presidency, if necessary, and to all institutions that innocently convicted persons are beaten or amnesty. Thank you so much. Thank you. Mr. Žigić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u164	I would briefly refer to an event that took place at the RS session. Finally, I mention it because I would like to ask my fellow parliamentarians in the RS Assembly to impose their political influence on the entire procedure and attack on one of the coalition MPs... and to condemn in some way and insist on a full investigation and punishment of the perpetrators, as it is also a matter of dignity, to protect the dignity of one MP, and also to protect the integrity of the RS Assembly. I would ask or appeal to the RS authorities to do everything to punish the perpetrators first, and secondly to make a political effort, because we are able, as MPs, not to do such things. I think that engagement will, in any case, increase not only trust but also create better preconditions for further successful work and Parliament in the RS, as well as the general atmosphere in BiH. That's what I wanted to do about yesterday or the day before yesterday when it happened at the RS Parliament. Another question, or one question that I would also like to activate or ask here, really, at this point, I don't know which one I would refer to, whether the Council of Ministers or the international community, in any case, is one very current one... which is that a good part, as a colleague said, in this period which we call wartime, victims and destroyed religious objects, to try at least to protect and prevent construction and change of purpose in urban and non-urban parts of the place where these were deities, mosques or other religious objects. On the other hand, we know that in certain areas, certain areas, parks or something else are being built, traces are being destroyed, which I don't think can be done for anyone, and it doesn't lead to reconciliation or that mutual understanding of what we all must be seeking together. That is why I would, I don't know, really, at this moment whom I would ask, but certainly the Council of Ministers of BiH, answer what they can do on this plan, and from the international community, that the property of religious communities, at least what is left, be fully protected. Because it will surely lead to further strengthening the mutual understanding and trust of the people living in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u165	Thank you, Mr. Žigić. I just forgot to say something to Herceg. He was an ambassador to Slovenia and handed an oral invitation to the President of the Parliament of Slovenia that a delegation of both our home visits Slovenia, I accepted in principle, to the College was also accepted, I think that co-operation with the parliaments of the former Yugoslavia's countries should be opened. First of all, a natural matter, with the desire to establish diplomatic relations with Yugoslavia as soon as possible, so that we can communicate and visit normally there. Is there any agreement on us continuing these consultations? I don't think there's any need. The second thing, we are here Parliament, you know it well, Dayton BiH. You also know that Dayton BiH has not regulated much, besides, has not established a day of independence. I don't mind personally every nation, every single person celebrating whatever day of independence, until we determine what our day together is, but the arrival of a telegram in the afternoon at the address, the example works, that I don't speak to, absolutely don't mind, let every day send me whoever has fax and expenses..., let him send, there's no problem, but is it a coincidence that Mr. Ljubičić, for example. There's a fax and a card here. Read it, Mr. Ljubičić, what it says.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u166	His Excellency, Mr Drago Ljubičić, chairman of the BiH House of Peoples, Sarajevo. On the occasion of the BiH Independence Day, I am honored to give you the warmest congratulations with the best wishes in health and happiness for your noble and personal, (and peace, stability and prosperity in friendly BiH and its citizens...). Ibrahim Tađuri, secretary of the Libyan National Bureau.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u167	Yeah, that's a comment, so you don't get around it, just so you know this card's here. Let me tell you, Avdo, we're old in politics. By the text, I'll tell you who wrote it, I mean, it doesn't take that much. As long as there are no people, but the citizens of BiH, I think, and the day of independence is a holiday that is not regulated, I have nothing against, and you know, also, that Mr. Radišić, as chairman, has not scheduled a reception, so to be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u168	I apologize to my fellow Members and to the Presidency, but I am taking the opportunity, since this is the last point, that several questions, proposals, however, I am directed towards certain institutions, so, here, one, I will try quickly. The separation or addition of 37 Interim Rules of Procedure on the work of the Federal Parliament is also a decision defining education, content, the principle of the work of the Federal Parliament's working bodies. Since we do not have such decisions in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I am launching an initiative towards the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs to prepare and put into the procedure the decision on the education and work of the working bodies and committees of the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly in co-operation with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. This is, in the end, also in the function of implementing point 4. from the letter of High Representative Karlos Vestendorp of 8.12.1998. Second question in the form of a request. Starting with the contents of the letter from the High Representative of the International Community, Mr Karlos Vestendorp of 8.12 I am seeking an active relationship to the making of a permanent Rules of Procedure of both PSBiH homes with the full help of experts from the Office of the High Representative. For this job, the working body of both homes can be formed, according to Article 5 of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples or can be entrusted to the Joint Commission or to the committees of both homes for constitutional and legal matters, normally with the help of all those listed and which does not conflict with Article 4, paragraph 8, of the Interim Rules of Procedure. Third, I propose that the services of this House to the College of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH prepare an overview of the operational implementation of the decisions taken in the previous House meeting, and that the College submit information to this House on the need for the operationalisation of a number of decisions made and unimplemented. I think there are such decisions and it would be good if we sitting here had full information that those decisions were not implemented and how objectively operationally they are implemented at the moment. The fourth question is under: (a) Can, starting from the provision of Article 5, point 4. The BiH Constitution, the BiH Council of Ministers, prepare for this House report on BiH's expenditure in '98. A year? (b) To make this House a request to the BiH presidency, starting with Article 5, point 3. The BiH Constitution, to prepare the BiH presidency for this PSBiH House, a report on the expenditures of the BiH presidency in '98. c) Starting with Article 5, point 3. The BiH Constitution, I demand that the BiH presidency, with a recommendation from the BiH Council of Ministers, propose an annual budget for '99. a year, financing the costs needed to exercise the authority of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH. And this last, as an SDP MP in this House and the Bosniak People's Club, I want to visit without any final intention that yesterday, indeed, here, there were words today at this House meeting, we had one situation where we witnessed arguments and counterarguments for the adoption of the agenda point regarding the approval of the Agreement on Special Relations between the Republic of Croatia and the FBiH, the outcome is familiar to you. However, in order to be cooperative according to the request of the High Representative of the International Community, Mr Karlos Vestendorp, whose request is to be encouraged from the point of view of the operationalisation of the Madrid Declaration and, among other things, to create conditions for ratification of the said agreement, while also respecting Amendment X, h, and Amendment XIX under 1. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is the result of the harmonisation of the Constitution of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitution of BiH, which would create conditions for the operationalisation of the provisions of Articles 3 and 38 of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I propose, in my personal name, as MPs and at the Club of Bosniaks and SDP in this high house, that we try to direct our efforts through colleges to find this issue at the debate for the next session, perhaps in terms of adopting a agenda point that would be called giving consent to this House of People's Agreement on Special Relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would be free to suggest that this should already be put into consideration in the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, because we would therefore realise constitutionally-procedural assumptions of ratification, i.e., the signing of a special relations agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH, whose adoption, from the point of view of the need and the establishment of good neighbourly relations with us neighbouring country, is no longer question that we have a foothold in both the Washington Agreement and the Dayton Agreement and in the documents that are before us from Madrid, so on. Madrid Declarations. It's a little longer, I apologize, but I haven't spent a minute on the previous points, so you'll forgive me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u169	Thank you, Mr. Herce, on the note that Mr. Vestendorp was quite clear, now whether he's wrong or right, I don't know. Here you go, Avdo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u170	Ljubičić offered me one question, I think that the BiH Council of Ministers should be asked, as quickly as possible, to propose laws and to pass laws in the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples so as not to have any disagreements, because we now have a lot of laws that have been passed since earlier, either from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or from the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and they are still in force. It will be until other laws are passed because Annex II to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina says so. All laws, regulations, judicial procedures in force on Bosnia and Herzegovina's territory, as soon as the Constitution comes into force, will remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to the Constitution, until otherwise determined by the competent authority of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I think it is necessary to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to propose all the laws as quickly as possible, and I have seen these on holidays, I have not already heard from the report from the last session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency that this issue has been launched, and it is not only that that, only one law, there are more laws to be implemented and passed in order to bring those regulations into line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u171	Thank you. Malić Momir, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u172	Here, I will take the opportunity to comment more and give some answers to the questions that have been asked here, I think also because of this home, and I hope that the public will be quickly informed of it as a whole. Mr. Đoko has brought up here a 39 thought, which is absolutely human, civilized, to do everything, if this House is to launch initiatives towards competent authorities on detection, exchange and, in the end, that those people who today, apparently, on all sides, have more, unfortunately, and by prisons and I don't know where everything, that the matter is resolved as humanitarianally, so in this respect he mentioned amnesty and the rest, I want to inform this House about the role of Secretary General of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, and also the National MP in the Republika Srpska Assembly, that he is just passing the Law on amendments to the Law on Amnesty, which has completely covered all that space that we are talking about here. Mr. Žigić mentioned here an unholy event that happened indisputable, last night around 7:30, in the hall of the Assembly Hall in Banja Luka, while the National Assembly was sitting, we were discussing the agenda point, it was an amendment to the State Security Act, because of the topic under discussion, decided that the Assembly in this section would be closed to the public, and therefore I was all those invited as guests and understood by others in the Assembly, other than MPs and members of the government, to say, in the sense of the decision, denied them the presence of the work of the National Assembly. The first day of work of the National Assembly, while the Assembly was open to the public, one of the participants of the unkind event in the National Assembly, which took place last night, was invited as a guest in front of Republika Srpska's fighting organisation, the call was not on the name, of course, but on a representative who, among other organisations, called as guests in the National Assembly, and of course, was in the National Assembly with guest accreditation. On the second day, since the Assembly was closed to the public, and for those guests, it was about 19 hours at that time, that came to the building of the Banski dvor, there were a lot of institutions in this space and cabinets of the President of the Republic and Government, that is, the Prime Minister, and the Rector of the University of Banja Luka, and the work space, that is, part of the cabinet of Mr Radišić, the President of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that I do not list everyone else, so that this space is quite unsuitable for full security, we have provided the office room in which the Assembly was sitting. This man came in, I speak as Secretary General of the National Assembly, not as a police document, which they will certainly do their part of the job, and in terms of the notice, or public statement, issued last night from the cabinet of the National Assembly President. This man came with this guest card, and entered the Banski dvor, outside the hall where the National Assembly was sitting, wanted to get in there, was in a state of impasse, wanted to enter with that guest accreditation. The security service that had a clear warrant who could enter, who couldn't enter, challenged him, he was in a state-of-the-art condition, he had a difficult disability without a leg, there was some kind of misunderstanding, first of all with security workers, and of course it was annoying him, I don't know how he came to talk to Mr. Dževad Osmančević, the MP, and after a few exchange words, I wasn't really present, I was in the Osmancevic, but the meeting began, after the break, and some eyewitnesses said that he slapped Mr. Osmančević, that one of the MPs then, from the Coalition, slapped this disabled, and then the police, understood, arranged and did their part of the job. The scene was quite unpleasant and we, for both that and for, indeed, one fatigue and long-term reconciliation between the coalitions and the clubs of the text of the law that was to be passed, after the break we estimated that the work of Assembly 40 was indeed more impossible than the fatigue of MPs and of this event and the work was then interrupted and will continue on March 2nd at 11pm. I, indeed, do not want to speak here who caused this incident by these two or three participants, it will certainly be said by the official authorities of the police and the judiciary, and if it is for that... but I am speaking my version, as Secretary General of the Assembly, so it was all, the National Assembly was fully provided in its work, there was no gap in that sense, whether the police could have acted a little more skillfully when there was already a little more bile conversation and they could and should have assumed that there might be something else, about that. I must tell you that the MPs of the CD Coalition sat right with the President of the National Assembly, with the Prime Minister, that a long, very reasonable conversation was made and all of us assessed it, and it was very unpleasant for all of us, but it was just a good thing that Mr. Osmančević, as a man who was in this way exposed to this discomfort, as a man and a people MP, which was what was said, accepted in one way by a man responsible, and as a national MP and as a man, and a person who I personally well knew, and I wanted that this matter not to be multipled in terms of what happened, who attacked, the Srbin Musliman, Musliman Srbin, there in the National Assembly of Serbia, and I think that in this sense we were very well understood and I hope that this event will really not affect, or at least, any of course, some of the processes which were set out in the National Assembly of the Republic, will be understood by the Republic, and the people who will understand it as well as well as the Republic. Here Mr Žigić also mentioned and asked for simply something that we would consider as an initiative and we and other legislative bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to protect the premises of religious objects where they were destroyed, where they were not destroyed, in another way, I would also like to inform you, as a MP in Republika Srpska and the Secretary-General, that at this meeting of the National Assembly in the Assembly procedure, the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Security of Space and the Law on Building Land, and where the CD Coalition tabled amendments precisely in this sense to what Mr Žigić was talking about, I cannot say what would eventually be adopted, but according to my information on the procedure that went on, that the Prosecutor, i.e. The government, very reasonablely approached these amendments and most likely will be adopted. That's it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u173	Thank you, Mr. Malić. Here you go, Mr. Šarčević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u174	Mr. Chairman, since we've been working a long time today, I don't know if we're okay, I'll be brief. At the last session, we adopted an amendment to the Law on travel documents. Once again, the material for another change has come back, my question is: Because of the problems in the area where I come from, the equipment for issuing and making, i.e., the issuing of travel documents and is divided only by cantons, these are the problems suffered by people in municipalities, and I ask why 41 are determined only to issue these cantons, who has obtained this equipment and can the equipment be obtained for police administrations in municipalities so that people do not suffer? This new amendment, i.e., the material that has been delivered to us, requires that again and those who have received travel documents to obtain it, I warn that eight municipalities in the area of Unsko-San canton, that it is only one day of making travel documents in cantons, it is impossible to please the people, we will be forced to extend again the deadline that we have extended the last time and can the equipment be obtained and where, if they are not controversial means of purchase? And yet another, I would support the initiative of the gentleman, calling, certainly, for yesterday's debate, for the College to make sure that the agreement with the Republic of Croatia is on the agenda of the next session. If not, why didn't we get an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u175	We're at the end, I'd ask for a break for 32 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-02-25-0.u176	Just one last note, a little joke at the end, this is the only session where Mlaćo didn't speak, and one more thing to say, we've established working bodies, or, commissions, I suggest they be in full function, someone said Vestendorp passed a few laws that Vestendorp brought to us to consider, adopt, change and follow, so please, from the administration, pass these laws on to the competent commissions, and not wait for the last day for them to study these laws, and when they come to the committee's session, that they can be quickly considered and adopted. Therefore, this is a clear one note that I wanted to tell you all that this home would be more successful, and the work of its committees, or bodies, would be in full function. If there's nothing else, we've done most of the things today, but there are days. Thank you. The sitting's done at 6:00. End
