ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u348	We continue today's session, we move to the 11th session, I open the 11th session of the PSBiH People's House. For the 11th session of the PSBiH People's House, I suggest the following 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 10th session 2. Proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH 3. Discussion in details on drafts (a) BiH Election Law, proposed by delegate Drago Ljubičić (b) of the BiH Election Law, Proposer of the SDP Assembly Club 4. General debate on draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH 5. Giving consent to the ratification of the following agreements (a) the Agreement on Social Security between BiH and the Republic of Austria with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement (b) the loan agreement between the Social Fund for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH on the regulation of pre-war debt between Bosnia and Herzegovina with the agreed and signed allocation of obligations towards the Social Fund by the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH and the decision on the adoption of debt to the Social Development Fund of Europe by loans used before 2.4.992, adopted by the Government of the RS c) the Agreement on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia to and from Luke Ploca through the territory of BiH in Neum d) the Treaty on the Guarantee of the project of the electricity transmission network, the electricity management system between BiH and the European Investment Bank with contracts on guarantee signed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of BiH's Ministry of Finance of Finance of the European Union and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of BiH Agreement with the Treaty for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union and the Treaty for the Republic of Croatia (C). Delegative questions The materials for this session have been delivered to you earlier. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? Can we make a statement on the agenda? Who's on the agenda like this? Thank you. I agree that we unanimously adopt the proposed agenda and move to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. I'm opening a debate. Any objections to the 10-session record? If he doesn't, can we make a statement? Who is it that we accept the minutes of the 10th session. Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the minutes of the 10th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH You also received the bill, passed the adoption procedure at the House of Representatives, I open a debate under this law. President of the Commission, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u350	Madam Presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, I have just made one procedural mistake in my first address, speaking of four amendments, as if they were related only to the Law on Immigration and Asylum of BiH, this law refers to an amendment read in the original text by Mr Tošić, and those three I mentioned refer to are, therefore, to this law, which is the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. At its 5th session, the Commission examined this law and adopted in the same text of the amendment that passed at the House of Representatives. Do the procedure, I'll read them for a while. Article 13 is replaced by the following: ‘The compensation for the property may, freely, be sought by the evasive and displaced persons from the relevant entities’. Article 27 adds a new Article 28, which reads: "The refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, who freely express their desire for material compensation for property, cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property." The Commission considers that, with the adoption of these amendments as well as at the House of Representatives, this law with these amendments can be adopted. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u351	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the Council of Ministers of BiH has unanimously adopted the bill, which was sent to the BiH House of Representatives, after a very long period of work and with help. The proposal was attended by 10 amendments by Mr Banjac, six amendments by Mr Špirić, two amendments by Mr Šarčević and two amendments by Mr Herceg. The BiH Council of Ministers considered the amendments, however, took into account the written position of the UNHCR and the OHR under these amendments and concluded that, if the amendment were accepted, that changes in the character and spirit of the law would take place so that the BiH Council of Ministers, at its last session, did not accept this amendment and remained in the text proposal, which was then sent. However, during the debate at the House of Representatives, with full consultations, the BiH Council of Ministers accepted these two amendments, which were read, however, whether there was an error in the minutes or during the translation, what the honourable representative read, I would only like to explain to you, both because of the minutes and because of the stenogram, in which the amendments were accepted. Amendment 5 to Article 13, the first position remains as it is without deleting the text, and the second attitude is added, and there is one small one, whether the language error is in translation. The compensation for the property can, at that time we said, voluntarily, say here with free will to seek, not refugees and displaced persons, but refugees and displaced persons, i.e. refugees and displaced persons, because the text of the Law itself was read by refugees from BiH and displaced persons, i.e., displaced persons, depending on the language in BiH, and there is this small contradiction, so it is not a refugee and displaced person, but refugees and displaced persons or refugees and displaced persons, and then beyond the competent bodies of entities. Accordingly, Article 28, that is the second amendment to be added to article 27, is in the text as it is, meaning "The refugees from BiH and displaced persons, i.e. the displaced persons in BiH, who" is the difference here again, says "free expressions of desire", with us there have been voluntary expressions of desire for material compensation, cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property and point 2 is added immediately, which regulates this item 1. "The temporary accommodation cannot achieve the use of private property or housing rights of persons who are in the status of displaced persons or refugees from BiH." Due to this addition of a new member of the 28th, the third amendment is that the former members of 28th and 29th become members of 29th and 30th. I would once again ask this high house to adopt the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons, i.e. displaced persons in BiH, in the manner proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers, in content and in the form that it was accepted by the BiH House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u352	I would like to thank Mr. Rečica, Deputy Minister. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u353	I'm just saying, was the minister last time that it was just agreed that language this freely expressed will was more acceptable, only to remain, freely expressed in 4 wills. This is Article 13, Section 2. At least that's how they said last time that language is more acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u354	I ask you once again to be a little specific, because sometimes we are very sensitive to these language versions. I have here a Serbian and Croatian version of the text discussed by the Commission, and in one and the other, in Croatia, it reads as follows: "The compensation for the property can, freely, ask for refugees and displaced persons from the relevant bodies of the entity", I am talking about Article 13, paragraph 2, so in Serbian, "the compensation for the property can be freely expressed by means of a request to avoid and displaced persons from the entity's competent authorities". The minister used the other, not evasive and displaced faces, but refugees and displaced faces. I ask you to be very precise and to agree this so that there will be no deviations, in the final version, with the Law that has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u355	I think we've got these technical details, too. Who's next to the word? If there are no more debaters, I am closing the debate and I would like to ask for a statement on the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, on the text proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and adopted a predstavnički of Representatives with amendments read here. Who's in? Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. Ad.3. Discussion in detail on drafts (a) BiH Election Law, Proposer, delegate Drago Ljubičić (b) BiH Election Law, Proposer, MPs' Club Please note that at the last session we introduced a parliamentary procedure to discuss these drafts of the law and that according to that programme, one of the operational plans that you received, which we discussed at the College of the House, was envisaged to declare the draft laws at the session which would be 16th or 17th of this month, if certain drafts of the law were determined. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Mr Beri has sent a plea to Parliament, the BiH Assembly, regarding the lack of dynamics in stating these laws, i.e. the Law and its desire to start considering the Law in the form of an amendment. However, in the form of an amendment, the draft law should be laid down, and we should move in the form of an amendment. That is why today we are going with a framework debate on the proposals of the electoral law. If you agree, we can discuss both laws together, regardless of what we put under a) and b) because we have said that we will consider them equally at this stage, both laws, and so that, as delegates, or MPs, we can treat one and the other law in this debate through this point. I'm opening a debate on election laws.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u356	So far, we have discussed the Election Law, one and the other, and proposed by Mr Ljubičić and proposed by the SDP. The truth is, we discussed all these laws in principle. There have been no concrete amendments, which would serve one and the other for an even more concrete response or for embedding these concrete proposals in the future draft electoral law. As regards the Electoral Law proposed by Mr Ljubičić, which was produced by the group or the OSCE Commission, we also found on the Constitutional Affairs Commission that it was the Law which has a constitutional basis, which was proposed by the authorised promoter and which could be used to draft the bill. Personally, when I'm talking about that law, I mean, he's a lot of newspapers, compared to the rules that were so far. We had to make that bill for the '98 election. years, but we didn't bring it. It is high time to pass one electoral law in the text, of course, which will be acceptable to the BiH Parliament, i.e. both homes. The newspapers that were introduced into this law may look small somewhere, but they are very significant. They were first introduced for the election of certain bodies, or BiH institutions, that is, above all, to say about the election of members of the BiH presidency, and in this election law, one newspaper has been introduced that says BiH's deputy members are also elected, and in which case they can replace the BiH presidency's deputy members. I would give a concrete one here, if it can be said orally, the amendment, concerning the deputy members of the BiH presidency, because I am not satisfied with the current formulation. If the institute of a deputy member of the BiH presidency is in place, he must be a deputy by all means, both in the event of the death of a member of the BiH presidency and in the event of temporary prevention, i.e. disease, and in the event of resignation. If this institute is being introduced, he, in my opinion, should be quite determined as an institute. True, the constitution does not say that BiH's deputy presidency members are elected, does not say that deputies are elected, but does not say they cannot be elected. Therefore, the Constitution allows it because it did not prohibit them from choosing. As for the BiH House of Representatives, there are significant newspapers. First, there are open lists. Many in the debate don't like those open lists, and I'd say they don't like those who fight the most, who think they won't pass. Because an open leaf doesn't have to go through the first or the second and third if three are elected, because it can go through both the seventh and the eighth and the ninth if there are more round votes. So, it's a significant paper that's personal to me, and I don't speak for anyone, just for myself, as a delegate, for me, it's a newspaper that I accept personally. I also accept election units. Why do I accept election units, you might ask yourself? Here's why. In the Federation of BiH, 28 MPs are elected to the House of Representatives, I didn't count, but I'm sure there are now more than half of Canton of Sarajevo, I don't think that's good. Let people deploy to several cantons and let citizens from their midst choose the people who will represent them at the BiH House of Representatives. I, for example, would fight quite openly for that principle. There's still a question of executive authorities here. I think that's a little bit general. It is not well worked out who all executives are, except in one member, so the Commissioner and his secretariat said there, he probably meant the secretaries of various committees, commissions, groups, subgroups and what I know. I think it must be more decidently said which are the executive bodies and what are functions that cannot be in the legislative authority, or who cannot be, to call it, the committee, the MP, the delegate, etc. I am in favour of the fact that the legislative, executive and judicial authority should be separated, that they cannot be joined in any case, at any level. Which means not only the same socio-political communities, but not at any level. Whoever is in the executive body of the canton or the Federation cannot be in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and vice versa. So I stand for that principle, but I think we should say a little bit more detail about it. 6 Second, you see, when it comes to that famous P2, refugees and displaced faces. I don't think that's well done either. If we put it in the way we've adopted the law now, then maybe it'll be okay. A refugee or a displaced person can vote in another municipality, but not one who lives in another person's apartment or in another person's house and thinks it's his, we can forbid him, so he'll also vote in the municipality from which he was displaced or expelled, it doesn't matter which way, now that we don't talk, he's gone. I think we need to keep that in mind. Otherwise, if we don't have that in mind, then that's the lack of this law. It's just one suggestion, and let the proposings work it out. As far as the SDP law itself is concerned, it has good provisions and mine would be one proposal, if it accepts both the OSCE and the SDP promoters, that those provisions, because there are very good ones, even I would say many that may be even better than these provisions in the Law of Mr Ljubičić, especially if it is some general human rights and the Convention on Human Rights, if there are such provisions, let the OSCE Group also consider them and let them accept certain provisions that are good, which are acceptable under that law, I would not mind it, if they are good, if they correspond, if they are, in some way, they can be incorporated into this law. I think we should go to the next session of the Assembly, which will be held in January, there by the end of January or in early February, for the adoption of the law, we should only go with one bill of law and I, as a delegate, will fight all the forces for Parliament to adopt the Law on Elections, not that someone else imposes it on us, because it is far better if we adopt it, then we will be more happy to implement it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u357	Thank you very much. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u358	I hope that this time there will be no misunderstanding as at the previous session when we have had the principle debate and the process of introducing these draft documents into parliamentary procedure. I would not speak very much in this first part, I would like first of all to ask a question, if it does not conflict with the business provisions of the House of Nations, and since it has been asked for the last time a question of my possibility and the right to discuss the proposed version of the SDP draft, I am indeed asking the question whether, if it is, or if it is not, why is it not called upon by a representative of the BiH draft election law, a concrete representative from the SDP Club in the BiH House of Representatives? I would ask for a written reply to the end of Act 02-166/2-99 of 20.10.1999, which I signed, and as an MP at the House of Peoples in front of the SDP at the Club of Bosniaks, also put it in the procedure. I have information, I've recorded it, that it came to this place on the 21st 10th. I apologize for not building this information here in this sense where this act ended with the SDP draft. Thirdly, I would really like to ask again what I last said, as it says in the record of the 10th session, one set of expert teams of the international community against the proposed law, the SDP Club of MPs in the House of Representatives, from the point of view of the absorption of certain democratic principles, the principles of respect for human rights, the principles of certain solutions in the Convention on Human Rights. In that sense, I answered the word, because I'm afraid there will be a misunderstanding, I wouldn't say anything further. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u359	Thank you very much. I think both laws in the current debate have had equal treatment and this home treats them equally, regardless of possible procedural deficiencies, but it seems to me that I was present at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that even then, regardless of the questions asked, disputes, etc., that he has received equal treatment in view of the business opportunities of entering laws treated at the House of Representatives, then automatically enter into the procedure of debate at the House of Peoples. So it is not disputed that his right to be debated in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u360	Ladies and gentlemen, for a multinational community like BiH, which has just come out of the war, with the best will and great knowledge, it is not possible, it is not easy to make one quality electoral law with which everyone would be satisfied, because under this law, people who were at war with each other until yesterday and where they were suffering the consequences of the war, in a way, literally all of them. The war was said to be kind of defensive, so we called it, one country, another defensive, third country, but mostly all treated it as one war that was justified. With great recognition to those who have drawn up this bill, I expect their understanding and acceptance of our legitimate remarks, because this law is, however, the most important for us who will live here and under this law, to which this law will apply. However, there is a mood for anyone who makes an observation to become an obstruction, even a verbal delinquent. Today, as you know, no one is sensitive to this. One of the main remarks of the Croatian side was that the electoral law does not deviate from the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution. As far as I could understand, there are at least four interpretations of whether this claim is correct. It's an interpretation of the international community, its representatives, its lawyers and lawyers of the other three sides, and there are still a few interpretations. Is it possible for each of these parties, at least four and perhaps more, to agree and interpret the Constitution for one expert of legal, constitutional law? That those of us who understand less, whose profession is 2 more than 2 more four, do not burden us with this problem. I think this would be very useful, if that expert team did this part of the job and we didn't argue about it anymore. If that's not possible, if the professional level can't solve it, then the big question is whether it's even the Constitution. A constitution that can be interpreted in dozens of ways, in my opinion, is not the Constitution. This expert group should, in my opinion, resolve a few basic issues. To answer our remarks, to give answers, for example, to the following. What is regulated by this electoral law? Is what the Constitution says, which is to regulate the choice of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, members of the BiH Presidency, and establish the basic principles that apply to the choice at all levels of government in BiH, or does this extend far beyond that until the regulation is put in place by a certain head of service in the municipality? If we define ourselves, I will plead later, but only if this is at least determined whether it's in accordance with the Constitution or not. Then to precisely regulate jurisdiction, i.e. the division of powers between BiH institutions, entities, and even lower. This is what constant disputes are about. I believe that one expert team can finally clarify what is the jurisdiction of BiH institutions and what is others. Then, to determine the choice of members of the BiH presidency and the People's House, because these are, however, the most important institutions for the multinational community. 8 We have agreed that this should not be a stage of the amendment, for this is not a bill. Therefore, I reserve this right and obligation, a natural thing, when there is time and when this is a proposal, to make amendments to this law. I think that, I will repeat, in a multinational community like BiH, however, the most important thing is that every nation has full freedom, full equality to choose its own representatives, that there is no possibility of its representatives choosing another. We believe this law gives us that opportunity. A Croatian member of the BiH presidency can choose another, he can choose another people, I don't think it's right and we simply can't accept it, because it's the right, I think that the gap is even wider, that the replacement can reflect it even more drastically. In the event of the replacement of a member of the BiH presidency, according to the bill's proposal, the successor determines the House of Representatives. In the House of Representatives, the Croatian people do not have a third of the representatives, therefore, what Mr. Čampara said, not only of the other people, but of another county, which means Sarajevo, can determine who will be representative of the Hrvat in the BiH presidency, it is not normal, it is not acceptable for us. I believe this law will be good, it will prove to be good if it is equally accepted by all three nations at the same rate. This means that he is not partial, that he equally meets the interests and needs of every nation. When it's time for the amendments, I said already, that's what we'll do. When it comes to the second bill by the SDP, it has other shortcomings again. He simply, according to us, deviates from the Constitution to a significant extent, because this draft, among other things, predicts that BiH presidency members are elected at the level, that any MP can choose any member of the BiH presidency, and everyone knows that, who had followed and read the Constitution, that it is contrary to the current Constitution, the Dayton Constitution of BiH. It is the same case with the election of delegates for the House of Peoples, so simply, we think that this law also has shortcomings far more than in the OSCE proposal and when it is time and when they are proposals, it depends on how the debate continues, because I do not believe there will be two drafts of the law. At this stage, we have to do something, whether we accept one or the other as the basis, because as far as I know, it wasn't the case that we have two bill proposals. Therefore, as the debate takes place, we will engage and define ourselves for the way it works in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u361	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u362	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the very name of the agenda at this point is somewhat vague. We're having a discussion in detail of the draft electoral law. Last time we had on the agenda draft laws and from the 11 delegates present in this house, 8 discussed in principle, and even certain particulars and comments were placed on certain members, in particular, certain members of the Draft. If we can't make amendments at this point, and we can't because it's not about the bill, then it seems to me that we're repeating this discussion, and in this assembly, it seems like we're having another discussion about our details of the last time we were 9. I don't think the criticism is that we haven't spoken out and we don't make amendments, because we ourselves see that we can't do it at this stage of the procedure, and we have a conclusion from last session of the House of Peoples, where we don't have a statement on that conclusion. The conclusion was that the Interim Secretariat is obliged to submit a stenogram from the session, led by the principle debate, on the draft of the BiH election law to the OSCE's Head of Mission, Ambassador Robert Beri, to provide answers and explanations to the questions asked, to make proposals and suggestions in the debate. About this law last time, about the bill was discussed last time and now the same debate is being extended, we don't know what, whether there are any answers and explanations to questions asked from last session, so it seems to me, if it isn't delivered, then it's too much to criticise us and give us a grudge that we don't invest and we don't work under this law. In the end, we've got that protocol here, and I don't think any of it's been done. We've all found that it's an important, serious law, a solid basis for discussion, we've highlighted observations and we don't have answers to them, so perhaps at this point, with this conclusion that we should re-supply that material, the last one, and this one, and now we hear an explanation about all of this in order to determine the bill that we'll probably be investing amendments, the one who considers it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u363	Mr. Chairman, we may do it again, but I don't think it's a waste, because this is an Electoral Law which is both strategic and crucial and I think that all BiH citizens are deeply concerned that we, their representatives, MPs, are saying what citizens expect us to say. I just want to point out that today is not the same for our two members, because we have today and our Parliamentary Assembly of the RS and I think it's a shame, because these two colleagues certainly have a lot to say about this law. That's how it happened last time, so the three of us are here today at this session. I personally believe that BiH's election law should start with the internal structure established by the BiH Constitution, the position and role of the first entity, and then take special care of the consistency of the three equal peoples in BiH. When I say so, I think that, by prescribing principles, rules and procedures of elections at all levels of government in BiH, the draft of the BiH electoral law most directly affects the constitutional structure and independence and jurisdiction of entities. I don't know how much this was about, and personally, I don't think it's enough. The draft election law of BiH does not have a constitutional basis, as the Constitution of BiH has only found that it will be a democratic state that will act under the law and with free and democratic elections, item 2, Article 1. That the electoral law that will be passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH will apply only to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the BiH Presidency, members of the 4th and 5th members. The BiH Constitution. Therefore, to determine the way of elections for the House of Representatives so that BiH has two electoral units, the Federation of BiH and RS, so that 14 MPs are elected to RS as one electoral unit and 28 in the Federation of BiH as the second constituency. I believe that this must be taken care of and that only this is the right path for this choice. Furthermore, I believe that entities must be independent electoral units for joint bodies in BiH, because only two electoral units in BiH can achieve the will of three peoples and the constitutional constitution of BiH in accordance with the BiH Constitution. The allocation of the mandate is done by the electoral factor system, and not by other means. Decidan is the view that BiH Election Law cannot prescribe election principles for entities, as the BiH Constitution has accepted the principle of exclusive division of jurisdiction between BiH institutions and entities. Also, this law cannot regulate electoral principles for local authorities of 10 authorities, since local self-government is in the jurisdiction of entities. Entities should pass their electoral laws, along with the adoption of the BiH Election Law. Surely we will have much more in that section when we talk about details, i.e. when we can make amendments, but I would also like to say that Chapter 14, which refers to elections for authorities in local communities, should be completely omitted from the BiH Election Law and left to the election laws of entities and to the relevant laws on territorial organisation, local self-government, which are adopted in entities, in accordance with the constitutional model and their territorial organisation. I've had so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u364	Madam Presidents, fellow MPs, since this is a general framework debate, without the investment of amendments, allow me to briefly present a few of my personal opinions on the draft of the electoral law, as well as the party to which I belong, the New Croatian Initiative. We believe that the draft electoral law for BiH, proposed by the OSCE expert group, is a good and important improvement compared to current and existing electoral rules, because it opens up a better possibility for further democratisation in BiH, but we also think that this is not a sufficient step to reintegrate BiH, and that, above all, is meant when it comes to choosing joint institutions, e.g. The presidency, which, according to us, should be decided by all BiH citizens and peoples, not by individual entities, as is the case now. We believe that BiH should function more and more in the future as a re-integrated whole and less as a united state. A very good solution is an open-list system, so in many countries of Europe, where democracy is incredibly high, such as Scandinavian. I, for example, had the opportunity to personally make sure of that by visiting those countries. There is only a problem with us, and there will need to do a lot of education for our citizens and voters, because such a system of selection and open lists is somewhat complicated for the citizens and we think that it will take a lot of effort in their education to get used to this and apply it without a lot of problems. One of our remarks on this electoral law refers to the Brcko district because it is not mentioned at all, the issue is not regulated at all in this draft of the electoral law. In all the provisions of the law mentioning states, entities, cantons and municipalities, the Brcko District should also be mentioned. If BiH is composed of two multiethnic entities, then the electoral law should ensure the representation of all peoples in the institutions of government. This is well regulated by law for the Federation of BiH, as other than Hrvat and Bošnjak, representation of others is ensured everywhere. However, when it comes to the institutions of Republika Srpska authorities, there is no mandatory representation of Hrvat, Bošnjak and other non-Serb peoples in the institutions of Republika Srpska authorities, which will prevent RS from being established as a multiethnic entity. This problem can only be regulated in principle if the entity's constitution is brought into line with the BiH Constitution in the section on the constitutionality of the people throughout the BiH area. And only when that happens, can this question be resolved in a satisfactory way. We personally hope that the BiH court will rise to this issue in a satisfactory manner soon. And if not, the High Representative is authorized to interpret the civilian part of the Peace Agreement. And without waiting for the Supreme Court's decision, he can issue a binding instruction to entities to comply with their constitutions with the BiH Constitution in the section on the constitutionality of the people in the whole Bosnia and Herzegovina area. 11 We do not think that a good provision, which is foreseen, is sufficient for a six-month stay in the municipality as a displaced person, and that such a person may, then, be registered in that municipality. Such a proposal could result in abuses in certain municipalities and areas. We think that it should be given only to those who have stayed in that municipality for the last three years. The party I belong to – The New Croatian Initiative supports the preferred way of voting and we think it is a good solution. We also think that the election of a member of the BiH presidency, in the event of his resignation, should take place in the House of Peoples and in the process of the House of Peoples, but that members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Representatives should participate in this. We hope that in the future debate, which will follow in the next period, when the amendment can act on this, that we, as representatives, will have constructive proposals. In particular, this applies to members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives because it is home to parties where freedom comes on these issues and on all political issues is actually much bigger than in the House of Peoples, where it is always, regardless of party membership, something limited. I think we all feel it. In any case, this election law is a visible progress for further democratisation and the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm really not going to repeat what I said in the last debate, except for one general finding that in the design of the draft, by the promoter, Mr Ljubičić, indeed, very low standards that are in force in normal, let me say, European countries have been used. What, in any case, I want to potentiate again, is the inconsistency of entity constitutions with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which may result in such solutions as we disagree with. I also want to remind myself that it is necessary to bring the election mechanism of presidents and vice presidents of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH into line, because I think entities must have approximately the same standards when it comes to elections. What brings this law I am talking about, and I am talking about a law proposed by Mr Ljubičić, which is that definitely Srbin in the Federation of BiH are a national minority, and that Hrvat and Bošnjak are in the Republika Srpska National Minority. The result is that in this home here, the House of Peoples or the Council of Peoples only Srbin from Republika Srpska can be elected, as well as Bošnjak and Hrvat from the Federation of BiH can be elected for this home. Then, definitely these two categories, i.e. Hrvat and Bošnjak in RS are a national minority, and Srbin in the Federation of BiH are also a national minority, which they absolutely disagree with. And this is due to the inconsistency of these entity constitutions with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And finally, in one sentence, I would also like to refer to the Electoral Law of the Proposer of the SDP Club, and the Official Proposer, as I see from this letter that Mr Herceg, Mr Herceg, presented to us today towards this home. It is that in the debate that was under way in the Tuzla Canton area, which I organised in co-operation with the OSCE and the SDP MPs' Club, which was attended by members of the municipal councils, then MPs of the Canton Assembly, MPs in the federal and state parliament, as well as 12 MPs from this area in the Republika Srpska Assembly. The SDP election law seems to me to have exceeded and received far more positive assessments than the Law proposed by Mr. Ljubičić. I'm making a personal impression so it doesn't have to mean it's absolutely like that. But a large number of debaters, this law, proposed by Drago Ljubičić, has assessed quite negatively and that in its members it carries a lot of what is discriminatory. So I believe that the final version of the Electoral Law should be some kind of merger between the draft electoral law by this working group compared to the promoter Drago Ljubičić and the SDP MPs' Club. So I would ask these experts who are dealing with and preparing answers to these questions through this debate, to really read certain legal solutions given in the SDP text, as well as the proposal by Drago Ljubičić, i.e. working groups, and to try to find something common in all of this to win the electoral law, not only the required majority, but also acceptable to most citizens and peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. Mr. Ristić has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u367	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, I have expressed my position on this election law the day after his adoption, as I recall, or several days. Today I just have confirmation that everything that I said last time for ten reasons more confirms that that's exactly what I'm saying. We have a situation here called a wish show amongst the MPs, here, in this case, in the House of Peoples. I'm not going to talk about amendments and these technical things that need or don't need to be added. But to deny a complete electoral law that a group of OSCE experts have passed, which is fully based on the Dayton Agreement, with, normally, a few of some of them falling out. And what would happen is, I would really ask here, if all these people individually were to make their proposal through the law. I don't think we could agree in 150 years. Unfortunately, there are still people here who had a chance in 1992 to pass the election law for Bosnia and Herzegovina and to comply with the election law. And that election law was very recognizable in 1992, in April of the month, you know. If we allow these people to again, in some way, influence the decisions of the international community, in 1999 and 2000 it is likely to be recognizable under some new electoral law. I really went out this time to congratulate the team of Mr. Beri and the OSCE who prepared this law, with the help of, of course, experts from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this will be my general conclusion that I have no amendments to invest and that, as an MP, I certainly adopt it at the time when it comes to adoption. And of course I'm going to have a hard time handing out for the amendments that are going to be filed on this bill. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u368	Thank you very much. Do we have any more debaters? Mr. Ljubičić. 13
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u369	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this time I am not reporting to the legislator, but to the function of the delegates. I would, after all these discussions, just want to say something, and I would suggest that we take care of the time limits and obligations that we still need to do in one and the other home, in order to respect the deadlines foreseen and defined for the adoption of this law, respecting the maximum obligation when it comes to this law, and certainly respecting the maximum importance of this law for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u370	Thank you very much. Do we have any more debaters? If not, I'm concluding today's debate on election laws. I suggest that the House of Peoples conclude that the Constitutional Commission, together with the Sekretarijat, has been subduing the debate on one draft of the law. To submit such a summed debate to the applicants by 6:12.1999 to make a statement on the comments, proposals and suggestions, as well as on those they accept or do not accept. What the Proposer accepts, with the initial text of the draft, will go to the Constitutional Commission again to give an opinion on the initial text of the draft, both the one and the other electoral law, and those additional points by 13.12.1999. After that, on December 16th or 17th, the House of Nations will discuss the Constitutional Commission's report and identify one and another draft of Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law. It's, like, a procedure so we can continue to treat these electoral laws. Can we agree on these conclusions? As far as the College is concerned, we left it behind, so you know we can accept it this way. Who's in favor of adopting a conclusion like this? Thank you. Any objections or abstentions? There isn't. Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted this conclusion. This closes the debate about the Electoral Law. We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is a debate on the draft rules of procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We have received all the Prednart Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Today I am opening a general debate on the first working version of the Pre-North Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples of the PSBiH. Who's answering for a word? There isn't. I propose, given the dynamics of this House's work, that all representatives, i.e. delegates, submit their observations to this Rules of Procedure, so that the working group that was formed and working on this Rules of Procedure may respect, i.e. 14 have a final proposal to the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, by that date, not to read now about the dates, dynamically, when the adoption of this Rules of Procedure is envisaged. Can we go with this conclusion? Who's in? Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Giving consent to ratification of the following agreements will go to the disclosure of one law at a time, or agreement, since we adopted this item of the agenda: a) the Social Security Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Austria with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement. I'm opening a debate under this agreement. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and I'm asking that we make a statement on this agreement. For the adoption of this Agreement, i.e. ratification of the Agreement. Thank you very much. I agree that we unanimously adopted the Agreement on Social Security between BiH and the Republic of Austria with the Protocol on the Implementation of the Agreement. b) A loan agreement between the Social Fund for the Development of the Council of Europe and BiH on the regulation of BiH's pre-war debt with an agreed and signed allocation of commitments to the Social Fund by the Federation of BiH Ministry of Finance and a decision to accept the debt to the Social Development Fund of Europe under loans used before 2.4.992, made by the RS government. I'm opening a debate under this agreement. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Who's in? Thank you. I understand that we have unanimously agreed to this agreement. c) Agreement on free transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia and from Luke Ploca and through BiH territory in Neum I am opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u371	The Commission for Transport and Communications held, directly before this session of the House of Peoples, the 5th session of the Commission. A free transit agreement has been discussed on the agenda through the territory of the Republic of Croatia in and from Luke Ploca through BiH territory in Neum. In view of the fact that the House of Representatives has adopted this proposal without notice, without amendments, the Commission has also concluded that we should propose to the House of People to give consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Free Transit through the territory of the Republic of Croatia to and from Luke Ploca through the territory of BiH in Neum. So the proposal is that way. 15
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-03-0.u372	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of adopting this agreement? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted that agreement. We move to d) The contract on guaranteeing the project of the electricity transmission network, the electricity management system, between BiH and the European Investment Bank, with guarantees contracts signed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of RS. I'm opening a debate on this contract. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of accepting this contract? Thank you. I find that we unanimously adopted this contract. e) The loan agreement, the emergency improvement project of the electrical system between the Japanese fund for overseas economic co-operation and BiH. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of this agreement? Thank you. I understand that we unanimously adopted the Loan Agreement. g) Loan agreement between the European Community and BiH. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of accepting this contract? Thank you very much. I find that we unanimously adopted. We're moving to point six, Ad. Six. Delegate questions. Who's answering for a word? If there are no delegate questions, we have no answer. I don't know how many MPs have received answers to questions raised so far, but I hope that the processors of these parliamentary issues will understand the seriousness of these questions and that we will receive regular answers. If we have no connection to this point, or no parliamentary questions, I am closing the 11th session of the House of Peoples, noting that we will have the next session under that dynamic plan on Tuesday, which you will be once more informed of. I thank you all. The seat's finished at 1:30.
