ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3503	Members, honored guests, I am opening the 15th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Travellers, respected guests, were invited to the meeting alongside MPs to chair and members of the BiH presidency, co-chair and vice-chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, Mr Drago Ljubičić, delegate to the House of Peoples of BiH, as proposing the draft election law, representatives of the Watch Tower Mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representative of the US Embassy in BiH, representative of the Central Bank of BiH, to discuss the response of the Central Bank of BiH to the conclusions of the House of Representatives. Representatives of public information funds were also invited to attend the meeting. I thank all those invited for finding both time and will to participate in this work, I would say particularly important and particularly important to BiH. Representatives of the Election Law Coalition sent me a request to attend the session to monitor the debate on drafts of the Electoral Law, so I gave approval to attend the session. Once again, I warmly welcome you all and wish us all a successful but quick work and the end of this session. Dear gentlemen, the sekretarijat is preparing a number of conditions right now, so please attend 31 MPs, 20 from the Federation of BiH and 11 from RS. We have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. The absence from the session was announced by Ivo Mijačević for health reasons and Safet Oručević, then Bećirbašić Smail, due to the disease, this is further, now our note has arrived. You all got a proposal on the agenda. We held a regular meeting this morning with representatives of all political parties and parliamentary clubs. Part of the material you got earlier, one part of the material you got right before the session. Here I'm thinking of the minutes from the previous session and the Rules of Procedure that you received today. You yourself have already been in a situation to see that we have 3 or 4 versions of the Rules of Procedure and this last version, so you write it in kind of 2 numbers to make it easier to remember which is which. This last version, hopefully the one we're going to talk about in full and decide, is now divided into a table. This morning we held consultations on the proposed agenda. We have the full agreement of representatives of political parties and parliamentary clubs that the draft agenda should be as delivered to you, except for item 6, this is the draft of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. The jednoglasan view of all is that this point should be postponed for the next session because, hopefully, the final version today has been delivered to us and it would not be directed to discuss something that is right on our table, and it is very important for the quality of the work of this House and for the future work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly as a whole. We also had at the meeting this morning a proposal from the representatives of the SDP Club to supplement the agenda with a number of points. The proposal was not accepted at the session, but it was agreed that representatives of the SDP Club should propose additional points of the agenda here, and we will decide afterwards. I will now read to you what is agreed on as a agenda, at this morning's meeting, and that is the unanimous opinion of the Kolegijum. 1. Record of the 14th session of House of Representatives 2. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Border Service 3. Draft law on the taking over of the BiH presidency member during the term of office of 4th Report on the public debate carried out and the submission of a proposal on drafts (a) Drago Ljubičić's election law (b) of election law of the SDP Group of MPs 5. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat 6. Information on laws adopted by the High Representative on provisional grounds, pardon, declared by the High Representative on the provisional basis and further activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly 7. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROF... European Railway Stock Funding Company 8. Central Bank of BiH's response to the conclusions of House of Representatives 9. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH Chief Auditor and the Deputy Auditor 10. MPs' questions This is a harmonised draft agenda with 10 points. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3505	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, when we adopted the Programme of Labour of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I expected there would be no need for intervention on the agenda, given that we have developed a complete programme of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by the end of this year. Unfortunately, in a series of agendas and tasks set up and specified by the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers was neither manifest nor made any suggestions that we discussed at the previous meeting of the House of Representatives. Believe it for me and for the party I represent and it is no surprise, because we have expressed our 3 views on the effectiveness of the BiH Council of Ministers very clearly at one of the previous sessions, but we have both identified ourselves as a political party that wants to address the current issues, that we ourselves propose legal projects and initiatives. Unfortunately, in a strange way, in addition to providing for these agenda points, our initiatives did not find their place in the College proposal, which put the College above the Work Programme and above MPs and the rights of MPs to propose, according to the programme, its own proposals. In short, we use this establishment of the agenda for today's Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to declare four important proposals proposed by SDP MPs to discuss in this higher house. I ask that the agenda be complemented by an initiative that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives initiates the process of harmonising the BiH Constitution with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We are witnessing that in recent days there has been absolute, direct recognition and international representatives and all relevant legal factors in BiH, that certain members of the BiH Constitution are limiting the fact that the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms applies fully in BiH. This initiative was offered by the House of Representatives and asked to be considered by the SDP MPs' Club, as well as by fellow Members Ivo Lozančić and Rasim Kadić. Given the importance of this initiative, I ask that on the proposal, whether to put this initiative on the agenda, yes or not today, MPs declare themselves individually. We stand at the point that accepting this initiative can have a historically far-reaching positive importance for the realisation and affirmation of human rights and bringing BiH closer to true European integration, and therefore we believe that the issue of including this agenda point today is one of the most important issues, the political issues of BiH. At the same time, we, in line with what we have identified as the Work Programme of the House of Representatives, and what has been defined in the New York Declaration, as a document presented by the BiH Presidency to the Security Council, or the UN Security Council, are asking today to put the draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers' agenda. The law has been discussed on the Constitutional Commission and has been given consent. By the way, I heard that the BiH Council of Ministers rejected the law, which doesn't surprise me at all, because obviously the BiH Council of Ministers has a view of what it won't and that's where it's been for all these years. In return, we offer positive what we want and I think it would be an essential respect for the parliamentary procedure to put on the agenda today and consider this issue from all aspects, given that the Constitutional Court is due and we will remain with the support of a government that will be officially unconstitutional and illegal. All the deadlines have passed for this. I will not mention the Madrid Declaration, I will not mention all the text of the exhibition when this is elected by the Council of Ministers of BiH and when it is sweetly promised that a reconstruction will be carried out within three months in terms of the new composition and new organisation of the Council of Ministers of BiH. I propose that today the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. the House of Representatives, be made known about the Law on Holidays. For six months, we've been talking about the holiday law everywhere, in New York, in Brussels, in the media. The holiday law was the only thing that was not discussed in the House of Representatives, and we proposed a bill on the holidays of BiH and found it mandatory for this House of Representatives to consider the holiday law by the end of this calendar year. Of course, other promoters were not bound by holiday laws. I will remind you that this law has been in the process for six and more months and has been given consent, or constitutional basis as a positive opinion by the Constitutional Legal Commission. 4 The fourth proposal to supplement the agenda is the Law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents, that is also an integral part of the New York Declaration. It is one important commitment of this Parliament that it truly respects the right of an individual to choose a passport and choose a letter in which a passport will be issued to him. This issue of amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents deeply enters the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights, it is an integral part of the definition of the Madrid Declaration and that is the decision of the BiH Presidency, contained in the New York Declaration. According to us, including these three agenda points is the definition of this House of Representatives whether it is ready to implement the New York Declaration. In addition to the end of the discussion, I would like to repeat businessly that this initiative on the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution is individually stated, because we consider this particularly important, and we can do this in a regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3506	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about two things. First, although yesterday at the Constitutional Commission session, we had a proposal for a law on taking up office as members of the BiH Presidency during the term of office and the Constitutional Commission, together with certain remarks sent to the motion, adopted such an initiative, is one or the initial story of what I will propose, as an MP in this House of Representatives. However, I believe that this law should not be on the agenda of today's session, for the simple reason that on the agenda of today's session, another law that integratedly regulates this matter is electoral laws. On the other hand, the draft law of the BiH presidency was sent to the BiH Parliament on 28.12.1998, just a year ago and only in the parliamentary procedure appeared ten days ago and the Constitutional Commission, in line with its regular affairs, put it in the process. In this regard, I see no reason why this law should be held at today's session, or in the agenda of today's session, that is one thing. The second thing I'm saying is Mr. Tokić's discussion. As far as I know, the Constitutional Court's decision on the unconstitutional nature of certain elements of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law has been delegated as a problem for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to resolve. At this point, we are all running out of time for this problem, but the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is the body passed by the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. I would like to draw attention to the chairman, members of the College, that in this case, the key responsibility for resolving the Constitutional Court Decision is not on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency. The key responsibility will be at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We need to find ways to resolve the problem before the deadline that the Constitutional Court gave us expires. In this regard, I am ready for further consultations, so that we can eventually find a way to put this, or some other draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers on the agenda and open this political problem in this home. Of course, as a signator of the initiative, I fully agree with this initiative. We talked about it yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, and I will talk about it later, and in this respect I very closely support Mr. Tokić's position especially in this Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, because we are running out of time, and we are responsible and secondly, I do not think that the proposal for a law on taking office as a member of the BiH presidency has the need to be included on the agenda of today's session. 5
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3507	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I think that the proposals that we have heard are quite serious and are treating the most serious matter that must be faced by the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but since we have received a agenda seven days ago with also important points, I do not believe that, preparing for a session of the Representative Council, I do not believe that anyone is ready out of the blue to take and discuss these legislative projects. So please let us try to adopt the agenda as it is, to complete this session, and to open the procedure for talks in the College with representatives of the Members' clubs, believe all four of these proposals or legislative projects are enough for the two-day work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH if we agree to be on the agenda. Don't make it serious, let's say and seriously try to extend the way we talk or even talk about legal projects at all. I don't mind having a conversation, but I'm against putting such serious things into such a crowded agenda and getting a distorted picture of the agenda again. I must remind my colleague, Mr. Tokić, that we had the opportunity to discuss the Law on Holidays in BiH and that I was then, BiH could already have one of BiH's most important state holidays today, on a proposal, it seems to me that this BiH Presidency has adopted that Mr. Klinton, as president of the world's largest state, congratulated the BiH Presidency that the citizens of Dejton have been delighted that the BiH Presidency has accepted and that we have just boxed that this is not the case, waiting for us to get a full law. Come on, please, let's talk seriously about serious legal projects, about opening up a procedure of alignment, about getting to it, about getting it on the agenda. I'm not sure that today we'll succeed in all four legislative projects, what you're proposing, put on the agenda and conduct a quality debate. It is not important for BiH to get a law by name, but to get a quality law that will serve BiH citizens and lead BiH in a democratic and economic sense forward.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3508	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished representatives, esteemed guests, to clarify the position of the College. As is known, the College has the role to prepare the session, to gain insight into the points prepared to an sufficient extent and therefore to draw up a draft agenda on what all three members of the College agree on, this is considered a proposal from the College and that is at least clear. Of course, there are plenty of opportunities for us to have, that some members of the College have different opinions and that is a fact that simply needs to be respected. It's not putting the College above or below the House of Representatives, it's simply a position created in real circumstances. I am obliged here to point out that we at the College have discussed and discussed the situation that we have a Work Programme that is quite ambitious, that we have discussed situations on how to determine on the occasions that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not deliver certain drafts of the law within the deadline provided for in the Work Programme of the House of Representatives and we agreed on the following way. All that until the last session of this year, on 22 December, which is foreseen in the Work Programme, and the Council of Ministers of BiH does not submit as a proposal, initiatives will be put in place that have been delivered by MPs, groups of MPs, authorised proposings, on the condition, of course, that the necessary procedure has passed, that the deadline that has been established by our conclusions has passed, that they have passed through the commissions that are needed and, of course, it is particularly important that 6 respects the chronological order. You know that a large number of laws, just from the Programme that predicted to be settled at the House of Representatives, have already been submitted recently at the end of the year. We have an initiative from MP Silajdžić, MP Bičakčić, the Coalition Club, among them is the Law on the application of human rights conventions in BiH. Of course, it is necessary to provide and ensure equal treatment for all MPs and all groups of MPs, and we will make sure that this is the case in the College. Personally, I have no objection to all the proposals put on the agenda today, and I will personally be in favour of them being on the agenda, of course, needing most of them to come to the agenda, which is quite clear to the Rules of Procedure. But during the vote, it was necessary to bear in mind that we agreed that anything that 22 would not arrive by the BiH Council of Ministers would be put in line with the Work Programme proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3509	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, I would like to begin by expressing a protest which is why there is no answer on the agenda to the question that I have raised behind this pay phone, and on behalf of the Foreign Policy Commission. The issue was addressed to the foreign ministry about the completion of the DKP, about the criteria used and the current situation of the government. That answer was supposed to be in the previous assembly and without any answers, there was no answer, the question arises why it is not present and is it possible to provide for today. I think it's a huge irresponsibility for those who have been asked a question to one of the important committees of the BiH Assembly. Secondly, I think we should go, considering today's agenda proposal, from what's real and what we can do today with a possible and a follow-up tomorrow. It is really too ambitious now to ask that those things that need to be included be in one period of work of the Assembly be exceeding its share. Personally, I don't think at this point in the election law there's more to the matter that the Assembly has to discuss and that everything else, unless it's in an emergency procedure, should be subordinated to that objective. In this context, I really don't understand, at this point, proposing the start of a debate on the amendments to the Constitution and it's trying to place it in a very awkward way, asking to vote individually and probably then try to impute someone that it's against human rights, freedom and so on. It should be built in, but it will come in the process, and we have a number of other ways to respect all human rights and freedoms guaranteed in the world and that should surely be fulfilled here. On the subject of the Council of Ministers Act, we are not simply prepared at this time to discuss it. We got, it seems to me only today, with the addition of the agenda some proposal no Niko had the opportunity to study. This should be discussed, if the deadline is 28, if it is to be an extraordinary session of the Assembly to put it on the agenda, or if it is 22 in the regular assembly, and that the session is already planned to take place on 22 and 23 or until a solution is reached. I also support, I don't know whose proposal it was, and it doesn't matter if the draft law on taking office as a member of the BiH presidency in the course of the term of office is removed now. There are some indiscretions, there are some inconsistencies in the first part of the law, but the fact is that it will be regulated by the Electoral Law. Now, the question is, if we bring something today or at the next session, will it prejudge the election law solution? I believe that, therefore, it would really be a waste of time to discuss it now, and it will be debated along with the entire Electoral Law. It is my conclusion that at this point the Election Law must not be anything 7 presupposed, and we must concentrate our attention on this act in the next month, two days with, of course, the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which we are not ready to discuss today, but here for 22 days and leave the possibility of a few days, of room for us to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3510	Who's next to the word? There's no one here. Since there is no President of the Constitutional Commission, and I am one of the members, I would like, respected Members of Parliament and esteemed guests, when it comes to the launch of an initiative on the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights. The Constitutional Commission discussed it yesterday and I said the following, and I want to do it again now. The initiation of a compliance initiative for me is one major accusation of the Constitution of BiH, because it is only a recognition that the Constitution of BiH is not in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and I had nothing against it but I said: For us to be consistent in the work so far, and we know that the Constitution of BiH has come into existence and there is no need to convince it here and the public knows it, I have suggested that a request be made to the OHR Office, to see and hear whether it is true, and in their opinion, that the Constitution of BiH does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights. Since you have had the opportunity to receive in your materials an answer to the remarks on the draft electoral law, from the OHR Office, and there was this particular observation, that the BiH Constitution is not in line with this electoral law with the European Convention on Human Rights. I can indirectly conclude on the basis of a response already in place in the materials, and it says that the electoral law is in line with the BiH Constitution and that the BiH Constitution is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. I am now, literally, confused. I don't know exactly what it is. I would not like to challenge the initiative of the MPs, in any case, but I would not want to rush, because I would like to simply look at a series of aspects of one problem, and that is how the Office of the High Representative sees this problem later, we will hear that this problem is seen by one parliamentary group, and we will all have a chance to make it clear and give our views. So, the proposal is that mine, as an MP, not to reject this initiative, because it does not deserve rejection, simply to conduct a good preparation for its deployment at the next session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House, that's what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3511	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I didn't know that today this matter will be spoken this way. If that's an accident, I'm asking that we go chronologically with the initiatives and I don't see why that's not the point. This matter is a very important matter. In my opinion, too, neither this law nor the Constitution were abolished with international conventions, and that is why I sought and proposed, back in January '97. year, Law on the Application of International Conventions. International conventions shall apply directly in accordance with Dejton. They have priority over domestic legislation, according to Dejton. However, since we are being violated by human rights, there is no harmony, etc. I have proposed a law within the framework of this project and we can see what is harmonised, what has not been abolished, what conventions should be added, because Dejton has not even listed all the conventions. Therefore, if the speech is about this project and the proposal of this parliamentary group, I welcome it, of course. However, the chronological order is the same matter, we are going according to the proposal that I have proposed and with the 8 that must be agreed by a large group of MPs, which is the Law on the application of international conventions in BiH, and that is how we deal with this problem, not taking away the right to initiative from anyone else, in fact, I want to extend this problem. I'm asking you, if we've already started talking about this matter, why don't we just talk chronologically, not to talk about the other 23 laws that were long gone for 60 days, waiting there. I think it would be a good idea if we started this debate, to go chronologically. The law on the application of international conventions and thus we will address many of the shortcomings and number of conventions that are not listed, etc., there is an entire debate on this. There was a public debate with experts on this in BiH, Sarajevo, I don't know who attended today. We, now I can tell you, as the Party for BiH, and I believe that the coalition members also took care of it, held public debates two years ago, came out with the bill and we can't let that be forgotten. But I'm about to discuss this matter, it's very important, it's in close connection with the Electoral Law that's most important to us now, and so on, it's the most important thing about that right now. The issue of coherence, human rights issues, universal voting rights, etc. I'm not saying that today we should discuss my proposal for a law on the application of the international convention, but, I say, if that matter is on the agenda, then let's go chronologically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3512	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I did not expect to comment on this proposal, it is quite legitimate, etc., but since there have been a lot of comments, allow me to say our opinions in the form of a few sentences. We are aware that these are large topics and I thank all MPs who have highlighted the importance of the debate at the House of Representatives, regardless of the final outcome of the House of Representatives' definition of these very essential and important issues and in this context, I do not think there is any problem in my mind that these agenda points are being located in the last part of today's session of the House of Representatives' agenda, and that this session is being specified the day before 21st or now, that I am not speaking in my mind, that the continuation of the session is being extended until the moment when it is important. We are aware, we have two meetings objectively and in these two meetings this topic should be and should be on the agenda and no one would answer not to be on the agenda. But what I wanted to say, especially about the BiH Constitution's coordination initiative with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, is this: it is an initiative to bring the Constitution into line. To be clear, it is not about changes to the Constitution and it is not accidentally located, and I would ask MPs for correctness to speak of the initiative as well. Secondly, I also support legal projects related to the path of harmonisation of all the laws, and not only the harmonisation of all the laws but also the provision of instruments to apply it in the constitutional legal system of BiH and, of course, we support that every legitimate initiative comes on the agenda, in this context, we appreciate the initiative that Mr Silajdžić stated, but I would like to specify that our initiative has one global, it refers to the Constitution. If we resolve that question, put it in the Constitution right, I think the whole part of the legislation will be easier for us, just because of everything that's been put out in the general public. I appreciate, I am a little impressed by the belief and the commitment and closeness expressed by some with the positions of the Office of the High Representative, but I would remind me from the parliamentary practice of this country that the Office of the High Representative with its highest factors, when it was the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, together with the Council of Ministers of BiH 9, was building an anti-constitutional Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and with the BiH Presidency. I do not want to quote anyone here, and we have pointed out at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, but these powerful authorities have told us that it is absolutely in accordance with the Constitution, which, of course, has been denied without consequences for OHR. At least some political coincidences would have to come out of it, if not of the consequences, then learn not to be as hasty in interpretations as there are these days of the case. As for this remark by Mr Silajdžić, his favorite sentence in this house, that it was '97. he pointed out this, I would indeed in the name of the present members of the SDP and in my personal name point out what to say to the public, while Mr Silajdžić was in Dayton, while there he considered the lines of hard-line demarcation between Usticolina and Gorazd, and I don't even know which lines, we pointed to the essential problem of inconsistency of the constitutional solution and put the issue prioritized to maps and the mere division of territories. In that context, of course, we're lucky it's '97. Someone talked about it, but when this is mentioned in this parliamentary debate, let us conclude here that we were here in '96, in the course of November, pointing out that this is a fundamental and strategic issue of what Mr. Attending adviser from the BiH Presidency, Prof. Kasim Trnka knows very well. I'm thanking you. We stay with this proposal with the possibility of it being in the second part of the session so that the session will continue on these points of the agenda later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3513	Thank you very much. I have one replica, since I want you, here you have, gentlemen MPs, you have a reply from the Office of the High Representative in which you express yourself: "the Constitution of BiH is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and everyone here is referred, who is not satisfied, can request that resolution through the Constitutional Court of BiH." What I'm trying to say is what you obviously didn't understand. I did not tell you that the high representative is the only interpreter of the BiH Constitution, because it is the actual state of affairs in this country, and if that authority says what it says, how come I have the right to say that I do not. If someone has the right to say that's not the case, they have the Constitutional Court, so let them handle it that way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3514	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be more specific. In my first debate, I wanted to try to work today on the agenda that we got, obviously, that no session can pass to finish the agenda that has been agreed, as if there were no MPs, presidents of the parties, etc., as if someone else was sitting on behalf of them and coming to the Representative's Council and we're opening a debate, of course, about the important things that are not impossible. Now I want to make it clear. Change or harmonisation of the Constitution is the most important and important and sensitive thing in BiH. Changing the Constitution or harmonising the Constitution will not only take back what the MPs are talking about, but many other things. Constitutional matter is not a professional matter for all of us sitting here, which means we need a little wider discussion on the harmonisation and the intention of changing the Constitution to lead. It is not good for the citizens of BiH to share for those who are for co-ordination and for those who are not. To make something mature and come here for discussion, ask for a much better preparation, gentlemen, than we're trying to say, from the purest thing to make a joke. That's why I'm absolutely against it, but here's what I'm saying absolutely now, and you're asking us to make an individual statement and I think that's enough bidding in front of the citizens of BiH with fair and Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin who are against it. I am 10 against it, because, gentlemen, in a year and a few days as MPs, we were bothered by the BiH Constitution to make BiH a more successful state. Have we realized all the possibilities that this constitution signed in Dayton has given us, we haven't. Why didn't we do that? We are not using the benefits of the BiH Constitution, but we are using possible shortcomings to conflict here. Here's the line of conflict, it's clear. They won't get anything from BiH citizens if I decidently say I'm in, and Mr. Tokić says it's decadent against or vice versa, let's do what's logical. I'm against this being a part of the agenda today and feel free to enter the stenogram. I have arguments as to why, because it is a serious matter, unprepared matter, there are no expert groups involved, consultants who should give their clear vision. Those who think they can teach constitutional law have colleges to compete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3515	Dear colleagues, chairman, esteemed guests, fellow MPs. I was just about to say that we've been discussing the agenda for an hour and 15 minutes and we haven't agreed on it yet. I will only remind one of the conclusions of one of the previous meetings of the Representative Council where, literally, it is agreed, and such an attitude is taken, that at a session of the Representative Council, it means, when delivered to MPs on the agenda, something can be classified only when assessed when it is urgent and spotless. I have a feeling that, here, from session to session, we are coming into a position to go each time, and when the agenda of the College has been established, with previous consultations, that new proposals are emerging and, unfortunately, I am afraid that, if such a way remains and persists, it will not continue to contribute more effectively to Parliament's work. That would mean that from the first time I came to the House of Representatives, I would have to carry suitcases and all the legal regulations, drafts, proposals, to be prepared to discuss the specific proposals that have been made here today. I'm objectively, really, not ready for it today. On the other hand, when some proposals were proposed specifically, one big question was not a change, but I realized that a colleague was proposing compliance with the BiH Constitution. It's really the same specific procedure. It's not enough here to just say, I suggest that this member and that member be brought into line. We ask that materials be delivered so that we can prepare ourselves, see what this is all about, and so it would be absurd to open such questions today. In that sense, I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that you put on the agenda vote that we have received as MPs with certain adjustments, or amendments, and that we plead by that and that we go to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3516	Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3517	I'll do it as soon as I can. You have the right to suggest the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3518	Comrade Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, distinguished guests, first of all, I would like to say that the representatives of the SDP at the meetings that were in preparation for these today's meetings did not agree with this agenda, which is already perfectly clear, but we have asked that these things be included as well. Also, I want to say that Mr. 11 Špirić really spoke on the trail, saying the way we should really set this whole thing up. I think that on the trail of what was said by fellow Špirić, who very clearly and precisely pointed to initiatives to bring the Constitution into line with the European Conventions on Human Rights. We do not harmonize it for the sake of conventions, not for Europe, but for our own purposes, that we are subject to standards that apply to Europe, so that we do not become a natural part of it and by those standards, and then someone takes us somewhere. Col. Špirić made it clear that this requires a broader debate and we really want to have a broader debate on these issues as serious people here. Our initiative is no introduction to a small door to change the Dayton Agreement, that's what I want you to know here. No small door-to-door controversies will result in any changes to the Dayton Agreement. We just want, in a way that has already started working here, when it comes to the Electoral Law, to open up a broad discussion. We thought that today by putting into the agenda, this discussion that has been here so far, would be practically quite a natural discussion on that agenda point. We do not think that this point of the agenda is possible to end today, but, practically, our intensity was just to bring about a serious public debate, an expert, political and any other. Nothing else. Don't, we get one of those same things every time. If by any chance we had taken this initiative to get into the agenda, the debate on it would have been much shorter than the debate on whether it should be in the agenda at all, and I therefore suggest to you, Mr. Chairman, because unlike you from that OHR letter that I'm going to talk about later, I have concluded quite the opposite of you. Let's say you concluded that everything was in line with the European conventions, and let's say I concluded from that same letter that it wasn't. There'll be an opportunity to say something about it. I'm asking you to do what we used to do, to go to the agenda, so that things get their own trajectory to the extent that they deserve it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3519	Bogić Bogičević, then Ambassador Rakić, but I ask you once again to shorten these stories. Let's go, we'll do business, so the result will be.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3520	Gentlemen chairman, just a brief clarification. This morning, he met with the College, extended with representatives of the parliamentary clubs. As you know, the College consists of three chairmans of our Parliament. The College agreed on the agenda, except for the Rules of Procedure on the work that we received with the invitation. At the College, I proposed four points of the agenda for which no consensus was reached in the College, therefore, with these three men, and it was agreed that the chairman said at the outset that we should propose these four points of the agenda to Parliament and make a statement about them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3521	Thank you very much. Since I am now in office as chairman, I want to say a clear position that was there, not as an MP, but as a chairman. That's where the attitude was like this. That the agenda is not only of the Kolegijum, but of all those present, which was proposed by the Kolegijum and accepted without point 6. So, accepted by everyone. As for the four points proposed precisely by Ambassador Bogičević, it is true that there was no agreement, not by the Kolegijum, but by all those present, was not achieved, some were in favour, some were against. It wasn't just about the Kolegijum. Here, there are both members of the 12 colleges who can confirm it. Is it true? Mr. Skopljak, is it true? That's right, then. Please, for the truth to know this. Don't let us pass on responsibility to the College. There was a meeting with representatives of political parties. Please, do any of you have any objections to what I said, except the SDP gentlemen? There isn't. That's what I'm talking about. The College agrees that we first vote to leave out item 3 from the agenda. The draft law on taking office of the BiH presidency during the term of office, so that we can then vote for the rest as a whole and on SDP proposals as proposed by Mr Tokić. How many are there? - 34 are present. The Rules of Procedure have been disfellowshipped, and we consider it disfellowshipped. Who is it for that point 3 of the proposal, therefore, to be left out of the agenda in the course of the term of office of the BiH presidency? Who's in? - 28. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find there is no need to vote on entities and that this point is left out of a harmonised agenda proposal. Now I suggest we vote on the next agenda. For the first item to be : 1.Book from the 14th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Border Service; 3. Report on the public debate carried out, a statement by the motion on drafts: (a) Drago Ljubičić's election law (b) of the electoral law of the SDP Group of MPs 4.The draft decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat; 5. Information on the laws declared by the High Representative on temporary grounds continues to be carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and Eurofirma, the European Railway Park Financing Company; 7. Responsibilities of the Central Bank of BiH to the conclusions of the House of Representatives; 8. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH Chief Auditor and the Deputy Auditor and 9. There are 34 MPs present in the room. I'm asking you, who's up for this agenda proposal? The voting process started, I can't give a word. - 25 against it. Supported by nine. Let's go round two on entity voting. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 15, there's a required majority. From RS 12. There's a need for most of them. I find this proposal has received the necessary majority. We will now vote on the additions proposed by MP Tokić. I'll formulate the proposals to see if we agree on that, Mr. MP. The supplement you suggested would be the first 131. Launching an initiative on the compliance of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We're going to formulate point two. The draft law on the BiH Council of Ministers, I want to see if we agree with the formulations. 3. Law on the holidays of BiH 4. We're going to vote now and we're going to go in line. We're voting on the first proposal, and later on, since you didn't suggest where to put them, we're going to put them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3522	(speaking from the site, following this agenda which the College has established with the possibility of being...) So before the parliamentary questions, anyway, that's how it should be. The poslanik has also asked for this to be the point of launching an initiative to bring the BiH Constitution into line with the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of Votes individually. We'll talk about, uh, abstention, so I can write. Alagić Raifa v, Branković Nedžad abstentioned, Čaršimanović Tarik, I have not heard of. Čolo Alma za, Filipović Mediha za, Genjac Halid za, Jahić Adnan za, Rasim Kadić za, Pamuk Mustafa za, Silajdžić Haris, it was the Club of Members of the CD Coalition. SDP. Bogić Bogičević for, Zlatko Lagumdžija za, Muminagić Suada za, Social Democratic Party of BiH. Divković Ivo for, Tokić Sejfudin, Đedović Ibrahim, an absent man. HDZ BiH. Havel Ana v, Zovko Ljubomir v, Pašalić Ivica v, Skopljak Pero v, Anita Mikulić v, Baković Mirko v. NHI - Lozančić Ivo for. KCD BiH from RS Bećirbašić Smail - for Karić Munira - for
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3528	Right, I accept the intervention. We'll take a break. We have a proposal from MP Haris Silajdžić to include in the agenda the Law on the application of the European Convention on Human Rights in BiH, the Law on the Application of International Conventions on Human Rights in BiH. There are 34 present in the O.R. Who's in? - 17. Who's against it? - 16. uzdržati 1. He can't go in the second round, he doesn't have half the majority. No point accepted. I propose, at the intervention of the MPs, I have not seen who first answered, MP Dokić and MP... 15
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3529	I believe many MPs share my opinion. For many things we've been against today and I'm, I'm speaking for my own good, for principled reasons. I think we're irresponsible to ourselves. We've adopted a plan and a work programme for so long that only a month ago we've adopted it and not one session has passed, here's just one session after that, we've been through so many new proposals going to the agenda, and there's so much left unfinished, on the one hand. Secondly, many of these things are certain that those who have refused to enter the agenda today will accept at the next session to come to the agenda, but if we get the materials. We materials, if we got it about five months ago, we didn't take it with us and we don't want to remember it because it's very important stuff, and the next session's only 15 days away, that's in 7. I really don't understand that they had no understanding and had put their proposals at stake, and therefore their credibility before the Assembly, without waiting seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3530	MP, it was a post-festum.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3531	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm really sorry that we have to have a discussion about the issues we agreed on. Mr. Dokić cited inaccuracy in this direction, given that the operational plan, as a part of the agenda, is foreseen, among other things, by the end of the year, and even decidently writes the proposal for a holiday law. We here, as SDP, behave responsibly, and all those who have been abstentioned or voted against should be asked why they voted in a programme of work that is not willing to respect. Of course, Mr Dokić, at the next session, we will ask these points to enter the agenda, but perhaps the difference between us and you is that we are tired of delaying, implementing what is the task of this parliamentary assembly. For many years, the delay that comes down to it, let's do it at the next session. There's no next session, we got to 12 and 5. We should sit down today and work for the next 15 days. We haven't achieved a program of work even 10% of what we've plotted, and we've all boasted here, especially our chairman has been powerfully going out into all the media to say unanimously we adopted the Work Programme. We have unanimously adopted, but some of the two criteria to adopt it, without applying it, include, Mr. Dokić, and you with this discussion. Take the surgery, and you'll see that you're wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3532	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in a decision by the BiH Constitutional Court on the unconstitutional nature of certain provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act, there are clear obligations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. That deadline's running out. Today, the House of Representatives refused to include the agenda item of the BiH Council of Ministers' Bill. I want to make it very clear that there is a great responsibility for the chairman of this House and the House of Representatives' College to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, and I want to make it clear that they must take responsibility for this situation, especially because this law and the proposal for work and, on the other hand, especially because of the fact that the head of the delegation in the VES was in a report from the Political Affairs Committee 16 MEPs said that there is a position that the two BiH institutions, the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH have a positive shift in their work, and that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is somewhat delayed and does not meet its obligations in quality. Gentlemen, we have had the opportunity not to be held hostage by the BiH Council of Ministers' unanimity and the BiH presidency's waiting. We haven't used it, and I want to make it very clear, and to delegate responsibility to the College of this House in further exploiting the remaining deadline for solving this problem. Thank you. I want to, as chairman, and speak to my colleagues as chairman. Gentlemen, you'd like some of us to stick to what you want, and you'd like us to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to the conclusions that we've made together, so when you say so. Accordingly, you do not forget the decision made by this House to place nothing on the agenda if the materials are not delivered to MPs within the business deadline. When it comes to the Law, which is called by Mr Kadić and today, literally today, 15 minutes before the beginning of the session, a letter from the Council of Ministers of BiH came in that they did not agree to the Bill on the Council of Ministers of BiH, nor the MP Mr Tokić, nor the MP of Mr Rakić, they did not agree to their proposal, and now we have, I do not want to get into it, they agreed as they knew and could, but I want to say, now a sufficient parliamentary condition has been met that at the next session and one and another law is being proposed and will be on the agenda, because now it is absolutely clear that it will be on the agenda 22. Mr. Kadić, we're the only ones as a college who stick to the conclusion of this house. Nothing beyond that. Read the conclusion, if anything can be added, add. I'm giving a 10 minute break right now, and I'm afraid in five, we're not gonna make it, but I'm asking you to make it 10 minutes. As you wished, we tried to get along and failed. Therefore, there is no agreement on this agenda point. I ask you, all MPs have given - 30 is currently in the Hall We have met and, here, to read to you the report on the basis of Article 7 point 1.b) of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the Commission of the Chairmans and Vice-Presidents of the House of Representatives in the composition of Mr. Mirko Banjac, Chairman; Mr. Pero Skopljak, First Deputy and Dr. Halid Genjac, second vice president. After the meeting, the Commission shall submit to the PSBiH House of Representatives the following report on the effort to reach agreement. 1. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel document was discussed by the Commission at the meeting by the SDP's proposal to include the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents in the agenda of the 15th session of the House of Representatives. At the meeting, the Commission discussed the SDP Club proposal which did not receive the necessary majority at the session. Members of the Commission have not reached agreement on the proposal to include in the agenda the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Documents and to refer this report to the PSBiH House of Representatives in order to carry out further procedures in accordance with Article 4, point 3d) of the BiH Constitution. The signatures are all of them. Is there a need to multiply? If you're looking to multiply and you can do it, it's not controversial. I ask that members of the Secretariat tell me a number of states. - 34. All the time, 34. Is it 34? Thank you very much. 17 Who is for this law to be included? - 16. There's no need for a majority now. I can promise if you get along and raise your hand. It didn't pass, there's no need for a further circle, it's not included, we'll move on. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Thank you. We're moving on. We're going to the first item of the agenda that's agreed. Once again, let me read the final text of the agenda. Please, it's time for a stenogram to know. 1. Journal of the 14th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Border Service; 3. Report on the public debate and the submission of the proposal on draft Drago Ljubičić's Election Law and the Electoral Law of the SDP Group Proposer; 4. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat; 5. Information on the laws declared by the High Representative on a provisional basis continues to be carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 6. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIRME European Railway Park Financing Company; 7. Response from the Central Bank of BiH to the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives; 8. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH Chief Auditor and the Deputy Auditor and 9. Parliament Issues Ad.1. I'm opening a debate on this point. Any objections to the record?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3534	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that what I'm about to say is most appropriate to say at this point even though it won't be directly related to the record. Namely, in this hall where we have been working for more or more than a year each time it is seen that this hall is becoming less and less conditional on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. It is illogical for fellow journalists or gentlemen journalists to sit on their knees, write notes, one to have a table at which they sit, and the other to have no table to sit at. I would ask the Council of Representatives' Protocol, which belongs to the Protocol, to do its part of the job. I don't think this is a good example of reporting from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH representative council. I ask you to take care of the conditions in which we work, because here to enter 5 - 6 would look more like all of this than the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's representative council.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3535	Maybe it was better under the parliamentary questions, but let's go to work. It is serious, but it's for parliamentary matters. I've opened a debate about the record. I'll take away a word that says otherwise. There are no reports. Who's in favour of adopting a 14th-session record, 34 18 are present. - 32. Against? - uzdržati 2. Any objections to the voting procedure? There isn't. I find that the 14th-session record was adopted without any objections. I'm closing point one, and we're moving to point two. Ad.2. A proposal for a law on the BiH Border State Service, please, honourable Members of the Parliament, honored guests, on two occasions I was informed by the Office in the cabinet that there are no amendments to the Law on Border State Service. Before the debate is opened, please state whether this is exactly how I was informed or not. I also have official notes from the secretary who received the messages. Given that the BiH presidency is here, we have a representative, authorised by the BiH presidency, I ask that it be made known whether or not there are amendments, if we have to move on. If we're not going to explain why there aren't any so I can open it. They got a message. The chairman received a message in the cabinet, the first vice-president received a message in the cabinet, the second did not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3536	Gentlemen of the chairman, dear MPs, let me just say that the BiH presidency has assumed the role of the legislator of this law, but, as far as I know, no such information has been sent from the cabinet of a member of the BiH presidency. My information says it was from the Office of the High Representative. Someone said that when we discussed it on the Constitutional Commission. I don't know, I didn't find out anything about it. Therefore, if he has such information from the BiH presidency has not come.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3537	Since you don't mind an established business procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3538	When it was held at the meeting of the BiH presidency, when representatives of the international community were also, they asked and asked for the draft law to be adopted in the text proposed by the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3539	And asked.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3540	They asked to be adopted at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in a text adopted at the BiH presidency session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3541	Our Mr. Radišić, a member of the BiH presidency, did not ask us to adopt and I do not know, we are not so informed, this is a new situation, but well, the application is a request. Is there a need for this information, which, according to the official record, came from Office 19 of the High Representative, to be made known by the OHR representative here today? Does he want to make a statement? He doesn't want anyone to make a statement or have one? No, I don't. Since the OHR Office's representative does not declare that this information is correct, I believe it does not exist, so I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the BiH Border Service. I didn't hear anything. I gave my word to everyone. No Niko answered. No Niko opposed. Please, I must go further in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have every assumption that we're working on this law. Here you go. I ask that, before the debate on this proposal is opened, the President of the Constitutional Legal Commission be declared and that we hear the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3542	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Constitutional Commission discussed the proposal for a law on the BiH State Border Service and, since the draft law in the Constitutional Commission's view did not contain the form needed, so it did not contain a constitutional basis in the preamble, we asked for further information from the BiH presidency. The BiH presidency submitted a supplement to the Bill on the BiH State Border Service today. You've got it signed by Mr. Ange Grbić for the BiH Presidency Secretariat in three language versions today on tables. Afterwards, the Constitutional Commission confirmed most of the votes that the proposal for a Law on the State Border Service came from an authorised promoter and that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the State Border Service of BiH. Thank you. I am asking the chairman to correct the President of the Commission, perhaps to supplement this debate, because there is a lot of need, so I will exercise my right, as a member of the Commission, to say one more thing. Opinions were shared, as the promoter accepted that, as a constitutional basis, he should take Article 3(4) and (5). It's the opposite of being delivered here to you. I ask the Proposer to correct what he has accepted on the Constitutional Commission, just to say, and under these conditions I have agreed to have a constitutional basis. So, Article 3 of point 4 and 5, and if you didn't get the material where the preamble was corrected where Article 3 of point 4 and 5 is said, I can't stand behind it, if you got it, that's it, and the proposer agreed to change it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3544	Speak from place and no exposure is heard
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3545	No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3546	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, asked the question of the constitutional basis of this law. 20 The BiH presidency stated in its initial letter that it is a material and legal basis in Article 3(5), which speaks of additional competences and is a material and legal basis for the adoption of this law. Since a question and procedural basis has been raised on the Constitutional Commission, the basis on which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is to consider this issue, it is then said that Article 4(4) (a) is to be taken into account, which states that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is to adopt laws implementing the BiH Presidency's decisions, therefore Article 3 and not Article 4 in Article 3. Because it's not about any coordination, that's quite clear.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3547	I have a replica and I call on the President of the Commission to make it clear, this is a prank and I no longer want to work on the Commission without a stenogram. Please, I'm precise, I don't know what you've been consulting further. I asked you, sir, if I'm not mistaken, everyone heard it and I ask that all the members of the Constitutional Commission be declared, are you authorized to accept and say yes. I said, "Article 3, points 5 and 4, it can, there's no problem."
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3548	Article 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3549	That's not true, sir, you didn't mention a member at all. I protest and inform this assembly that I will not work without a stenogram, because these are, this is not the first time they've been pranked in the assembly. I'm asking the president to plead here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3550	I'm protesting this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3551	Fight all you want, then don't fool around.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3552	I repeat, we discussed yesterday on the Constitutional Commission, we asked for an additional position that would become an integral part of the bill in preamble, which would mean establishing a constitutional basis for the adoption of the State Border Service Act. The BiH presidency delivered a position to the Constitutional Commission that certain members of the Constitutional Commission disagreed at this morning's session and asked for it to be completed. No doubt it's a different concept of a point or a member. Since Mr Mirko Banjac is making one statement at the moment, and that Mr Kasim Trnka, who was at the Constitutional Commission session on behalf of the BiH presidency, understood the other.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3553	I'm asking you what you understand? 21
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3554	Since she wasn't running, no recorded session, no recorded session of the Constitutional Commission, I think there's only one solution. I suggest that the chairman interrupt the session, take a 20-minute break for the Constitutional Commission session to come out with the Constitutional Commission's position on this. Otherwise, I find it difficult to remember whether you, Mr. Banjac, discussed Article 4(4) or Article 3(4). It's a thing that could be solved that way, and without using the word prank, intentional error, etc. I think the discussion is groundless in the next text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3555	I didn't expect this current, but please, Mr. Deretić. You were in a session, some people were, what are we going to change now, a statement?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3556	Dear colleagues, chairman, MPs, I am indeed more than surprised by this manner of discussion after a session of the Constitutional Commission which was a circus not full for two hours. I wasn't at the Constitutional Commission meeting yesterday when this was discussed. Today, however, there has been another debate over what needs to be entered into the preamble of this law, which I will, otherwise, say something later in general and state my position. At one point, however, there was indeed a comment on Mr Banjac's ability to take the preamble of what was already stated, so that it would be taken as a basis for entering the preamble, which is Article 3 of point 5(a) by then suggesting that Mr Banjac indicated that the Bureau would decide to facilitate cooperation between entities in matters, and then Mr Banjac proposed, provided that Article 3. point 4 of Article 3 would also enter into the preamble of this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3557	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3558	Any other interpretation would be extremely incorrect and unfair, that's one thing. However, I would generally like to say something else, dear fellow MPs. I have been asking myself a very loud and clear question lately, really, do I, as an MP in the BiH Parliament, have at all the importance and can I do the function that I am supposed to do, above all, with the Constitution of BiH? Why am I saying this? I say for the following reasons. I'll just point out to you that the Border Service Act is, and you well know, we've already discussed the draft on two occasions, the draft, I think at the 9th and 10th months. I've always been categorical against the fact that police forces or the border service are in exclusive jurisdiction, under the Dayton Agreement, entities. Unfortunately, there have been many debaters and through media means, many such people have been called upon so-called. It's a bona fide. That, in the Bosnian Declaration, the establishment of a border service has been established, it is not absolutely true. If that's the case, I'll be free just to read it. 22
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3559	Let's just sort this out. What happened on the Constitutional Commission, and then...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3560	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I thought I could take my stand...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3561	He's looking for a replica. It's not a replica, it's an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3562	Chairman, I would like to warn you that you are abusers of the presidency and that you are now opening a discussion of the session of the Constitutional Commission Council and asking us to listen to every member or not. He was from the President of the Constitutional Commission to propose that you take a break and that you do so on the Council and come out with your position. I'm now on behalf of the MPs' club asking for a break for you to do it on that break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3563	You can't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3564	You can't ask like this and say you won't interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3565	We can't interrupt the session on incorrect information, breach of the Rules of Procedure, stating an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3566	That's what you'd like to discuss on your advice. You're using your position as chairman so you don't take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3567	I have to intervene, as an MP. Your Honor, sir, I appreciate your desire to prove that something that didn't happen, but it's only a wish. The truth is something other than unreal desires, because everyone there was perfectly sound hearing and seeing, and I don't want, gentlemen, to bring out disinformation here. I can say that the gentleman who has been here and said I have repented, I have not said that, there is no problem I would understand him, but please do not question my parliamentary right as I will not challenge you right, because you have raised your hand to protect myself as an MP, your integrity of a person, and to say that there is no one right to listen to me, Mr. MP, here I will listen to you. I'm just a member of the Commission there. I don't want to distort the position of one body of this congregation. Here, the gentleman said before what he heard. It's another thing if they're present at what they did, I'm not going to get 23 into it, but then let them come out and say honestly, you know what I said, I was wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3568	You've completely misunderstood me. I have no intention of proving anything here now whether it's said or not. I don't think it's our turn to make a circus like this out of the congregation and now to discuss what anyone said on the council. You are sitting on the Council, agree on these things, and come out with an attitude, and you claim that there is no constitutional basis, it is said that there is a constitutional basis and you solve this problem, do not let the entire Assembly become a Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3569	Thank you. Tokić. He's looking for a replica man, I can't take that right from him. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3570	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, given that we have one of the most significant points of the agenda, and believing that the President-in-Office of Banjac wants to carry out a consistent position of the Constitutional Commission so as not to have different dilemmas as to what the Constitutional Commission thinks of the Proposer, the authority of the Proposer and the constitutionality of the proposal, believing at the same time that it would not be a good thing to suspect now that Mr Banjac would want to challenge the adoption of the law, I think that we are all in the interest of having this law passed, that it would not have thought by chance that some political intention of the New York Declaration would be behind this very important procedure, form. I am standing at the point of view that it would be most meaningful, as an MP and member of the Constitutional Commission who, unfortunately, was not at the meeting this morning, so that I cannot testify either for or against, but finding it appropriate that this debate would be best not to be held here, but rather to be in the Commission, because clearly there are different opinions. I suggest we take this initiative for a break right now, because it's simply not going to take us anywhere, they're going to think this third row over there that we're not going to adopt the Border Service Act, which I believe is not true.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3571	Thank you very much, MP, for your concern.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3572	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I vigorously refuse this manner of communication to speak of pranks and similar statements. I'd just like to remind you what it was like at the Constitutional Commission session. By the way, since my profession is constitutional law, I am quoting the words I used "The BiH Presidency has cited a material and legal basis for the adoption of this law in additional jurisdiction". Since they were not satisfied with the proposal, I said, "I don't mind being a procedural and legal basis." Gentlemen, the procedural legal basis is in Article 4, in the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, where in point 4. suba) says "it is making laws to implement the BiH Presidency's decisions". Therefore, my exposure was entirely consistent. What the previous MP said from the Serbian Radical Party is that the word coordination was used. There is never a 24-word coordination that has been used, because I know very well what point 4 of Article 3 means. These are the material reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3573	Thank you very much, you've said everything you've thought and thank you very much for your honesty.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3574	I'm completely honest and I don't think I'm sorry. There are plenty of MPs in the O.R. so we can continue our work. [[PAUZA]] I'm asking the President of the Constitutional Commission to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3575	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in the break of this session, the Constitutional Commission held a session. Six members of the Constitutional Commission attended the session. The Constitutional Commission discussed the addition of the State Border Service Bill, submitted by the BiH presidency, which you, as MPs, have received, which has caused the dispute here. Most of the votes, the Constitutional Commission accepted that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, contained as written by the BiH Presidency, on the basis of Article III of point 5 and IV of point 4a, and since it found that the proposal for a bill was submitted by the authorising officer, the Constitutional Commission concluded that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of the State Border Service Act on the basis of these amendments. Thank you. Just one addition, when I said six members of the Constitutional Commission were present, I am obliged to say that there were no members of the Constitutional Commission from the RS territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3576	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, I was just about to inform the MPs that I was not informed at all that the Constitutional Commission was sitting on the one hand, because at the time I was sitting here, arguing with Mr. Trnko at this table, that's one thing. Secondly, I would ask, Mr. Chairman, or President of the Commission, you said there were six members of the Commission present, so you said it was mostly votes. Please state who it was against and who didn't have the same opinion most of them had?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3577	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, I really, really don't know, something's not working out for us today and there are all sorts of misunderstandings that aren't essential, and obviously there are 25 preparedness for us to consider and adopt this law today. Therefore, it may act aggressively, but after this notice, I have been on this Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional Commission, I, as an MP, as a member of the Constitutional Legal Commission, ask for a new break for all members of the Constitutional Commission to be invited and that we are considering there. Guys, it's not right. When I heard this, I was amazed, because someone could always think it was the law's content, obviously not. Here we want to satisfy one form and I am asking the chairman for a 15-minute break, so let's sit on the Constitutional Commission that all together, as it seems to Parliament, take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3578	Is that what you're looking for on behalf of the club, Tokić?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3579	I'm looking on behalf of the club and for my own personal name and on behalf of...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3580	Time out for 15 minutes. We have 24 MPs in the O.R., and I suggest we finally get to work. [[PAUZA]] I ask the President of the Constitutional Commission to inform the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3581	Ladies and gentlemen, in the second break of this session, the Constitutional Commission held its 14th session, which was attended by 7 of the nine members of the Constitutional Commission. The Commission discussed the addition of the State Border Service Law proposal by the BiH presidency. Most of the votes cast by the Commission, with 5 votes in favour and 1 vote against and one vote with abstention, because a member of the Commission was not satisfied, because the applicant could not or would not, or would not give further reasons for the constitutional basis. So, most of the votes were adopted by the Commission by two. 1. A proposal for a law on the BiH State Border Service, delivered by an authorised promoter. 2. The Commission has accepted that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law in the way the BiH presidency delivered it in its act, which all MPs received at this session during today's session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3582	Dear gentlemen, I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on the BiH Border Service. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3583	Gentlemen and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, 26 The SDP BiH MPs Club has more amendments to amend and supplement this law, but will give up on them for several reasons and give support to this law. 1. A similar law was proposed by the SDP MPs' club several months ago to form a joint police force, which did not pass in this parliament. 2. The Constitutional Commission has today estimated that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. 3. We have been informed that the BiH presidency unanimously proposed this law. 4. The New York Declaration, in addition to all the disputes, has been informed that the binding document after the adoption of the UN Security Council has been adopted and insists on establishing a border service. 5. We know that within 16 days at the border of BiH, there will be members of the Border Service who are already very much preparing and training, with or without this parliament. It would be good for Parliament to pass the law before this border service begins to function. Mr. Banjac informed us last night that he has two messages from the Supreme Interpreter of the Constitution of BiH that there is no amendment to this law. Of course, our amendments went towards accepting European standards of 30 km, of course, here is narrowed down to 10 km from the border line, that there are some contradictions in the Law of ICs that speak of multiethnic composition in two ways, but as I said, for these reasons we will give support to this law because we are aware that in 16 days the Border Service is beginning to function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3584	Can I help you? Who wants to speak further?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3585	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have received at this point a series of controversial notices from having the right to amendments, not to have the right to amendments and not to list some things. The fact here is that with its document, the BiH presidency is a proponent of this law. The fact is that in entities, I will say especially in RS, there is a specially organised border service with its structure, seats and the number of employees. The fact is that a year ago, representatives of the international community signed an agreement with the government, with the RS president and with the interior minister on the professionalisation and organisation of the interior ministry and the creation of a framework for the creation of a multiethnic police force. These are all elements based on which programmes have been made, based on which certain staff are trained, on which certain funds have been invested to establish a professional service that needs to do its job. I can say next. International representatives in RS were given very high marks on the professional work of police and other authorities in the area. I'm not going to say what's in the Federation of BiH, but I'm deliberately saying what's in RS. Now a service is being created that needs to be integrated for all of BiH and I am not against the integration of the service at level 27 of BiH, but I am against some solutions and that is why I will present my amendments, because I believe that no law that comes before this house can be without amendments, then we better vote it out from home and finish a number of jobs that we need to finish. I'm sorry to read all these amendments. You'll get all of them, but I couldn't redecorate, let me say, every member, so I'll read a detailed number of members. Amendment 1 to Article 1 is amended and reads: "B BiH's border service organisations, in the BiH text, are set up to carry out border protection and airport security tasks. The BiH presidency is responsible for the Border Service." I think there's a huge difference here. The Ministry of Civil Affairs cannot be responsible for the Border Service but for the BiH presidency. The BiH presidency can transfer part of the mandate to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, to manage the Border Service on its behalf in accordance with the Constitution and this law. The Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications will identify in detail the organisational units, job systematization, number of employees, funding methods and other issues with the previous agreement of the BiH presidency. It will be headed by a College composed of directors and two deputies appointed by the BiH presidency with the consent of the BiH Parliament and elected from the order of the constituent peoples of BiH. Candidates for director and deputies will be proposed by entity governments. Directors and deputies are appointed persons elected for four years, and will be replaced on duty every 8 months. The main headquarters of the Border Service will be located in Sarajevo and in two entity offices in Banja Luka and Mostar. Field offices will be established as necessary and will be responsible for the main headquarters of the Border Service. The ethnic composition of staff employed by the Border Service will be established in accordance with the following criteria. The ethnic composition of border service personnel in Sarajevo will reflect the national structure according to the '91 census. A year. The ethnic composition of the Border Service in the entity area will reflect the national structure, in line with the '97 election results. A year. The presentation of every constituent people in BiH, in all office positions, will in no case exceed two-thirds or be less than 10% of the total staff of the Border Service. All units of the Border Service will be fully integrated and members of all peoples may perform duties at each point along the border. If the RS, the Federation of BiH, in the Federation, or its cantons are protecting borders, BiH can employ personnel entrusted with these tasks. Amendment 2 to Article 2 is amended and reads: "The Border Service is in charge of protecting the borders of BiH, protecting borders includes the following tasks: 1st border control at border crossing points, this obligation includes: (a) examining documents at border crossing points, authorising border crossings, stopping, or preventing unauthorised entry into BiH, proposing to the police of search entities in the area of jurisdiction regarding the affairs of the Border Service under Articles 4 and 5 of this Act. The entity's police forces shall have full jurisdiction to carry out legal measures within the area of jurisdiction provided for in point 2 of Article 1(1). The Border Service can issue a visa and a passport in exceptional cases, so this remains the same. 28 In the event that a serious threat to general security or public order, that is Amendment 3 to Article 4, is amended and reads as follows: "In the event that the serious danger of general security or public order established by the BiH presidency or entity presidents, or the elemental accident imposes a greater difficulty on the Border Service, and if these difficulties are directly related to the execution, performance of duties, it may require support from police authorities in the entity. The ministry is making a decision on this in agreement with the entity authorities." Amendment 4 to Article 5 is amended as follows: The Border Service shall take over police work in the area of criminal prosecution when there are suspicions of a criminal offence or offence: 1. Directed against the security of the border or the exercise of the border service referred to in Article 2. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. That goods are carried across borders without official authorisation or in a way that violates a valid prohibition, in a way that constitutes an objective element established by criminal provisions to the extent that the Border Service has been tasked with overseeing such prohibition, on the basis of another law or administrative arrangement with the authorities responsible for such prosecution. The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 3 of this Article shall apply accordingly to the prosecution of minor infringements. Amendment 5 to Article 6 is amended as follows: "The Border Service may take the necessary measures to carry out its tasks within the meaning of Articles 2 to 5 in order to prevent dangers. In the sense of this Act, the danger is any individual case of danger to general security or public order in matters for which the Border Service is competent. It is a serious danger within the meaning of Article 4 that threatens one of the fundamental rights, such as the existence of a state, the right to life, health, freedom, property of considerable value or other things protected by the provisions of criminal law and by special social value. Detailed provisions on the competences of the Border Service, in a manner consistent with the rule of law, will be regulated as an exception on transitional grounds, legal provisions. In order to carry out the tasks referred to in Articles 2 to 5, as well as to carry out tasks entrusted to the Border Service with those provisions, this service will have the powers conferred upon it by law." Amendment 6. Chapter II is amended and reads: "This Law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the Official Messenger of BiH and will be published in the official messengers of the entity. The RS police force and the Federation of BiH will, on a transitional basis, carry out the tasks provided for in the chapter and this law to the extent that they have so far been implemented until the Border Service is able to fully take over these tasks. To this extent, to which BiH appoints officers of its Border Service after the entry into force of this Act, these officials are in charge of carrying out the tasks set out in Chapter I. 29 Without delay, the Ministry will adopt the necessary regulations or administrative instructions necessary for the implementation of this law, especially in the following areas: 1. General and specific competences as well as data protection, 2. Direct coercion and use of firearms, 3. Obligation and compensation for damage caused by the Border Service in the context of the performance of its tasks, 4. Staff Regulations and Services, 5. Co-operation with other authorities such as entity police forces, other law enforcement authorities, as well as immigration and customs authorities."
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3586	Please, MP, hurry up. Were they delivered to the MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3587	I delivered them to multiply the service.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3588	If they're delivered, there's no need to read. I suggest a order like this. Since another amendment has come to me, would it be your turn to talk about it a little bit and then get involved in the discussion? Would that be better? I won't disturb. Dokić answered, Čaršimanović, and Deretić, if you can do this or we'll go in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3589	I'll just have one question. Maybe I didn't understand this language of yours from the Constitutional Affairs Commission, and maybe what I'm about to ask is already defined, I say I didn't understand. Every law must have a preamble. The law in this form, as proposed on behalf of the BiH presidency, has no preamble. I pray that on behalf of the promoter it is written, which is why we are now discussing this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3590	The preamble is divided into special, as a special supplement and they realized they were wrong, but what you people are going to do is not that terrible. We have asked specifically on the Constitutional Commission to deliver what you, MP, have asked for, because we believe that no legal act can be without a preamble, because that is the case in normal legal practice. That's what the Constitutional Commission says.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3591	If so, allow me just a few more sentences. I think what we've received is, in fact, a further process of confusing the MPs. If it is called on, the BiH presidency is here, and then it must be called in the preamble on the basis of which the BiH presidency makes the decision. According to the BiH Constitution, it can only be based on Article 3, item 4, where coordination is discussed. What stands here, as suggested in the preamble, is not the BiH presidency's jurisdiction. These are the powers of entities that I do not dispute, that we understand each other. This is where we talk about the promoter. On the 30th basis, the Proposer adopted and proposed this law. Let's not mix things up. Here's what it says, I read this, I didn't just sit for two or three hours at this session, things get mixed up here. The BiH presidency's responsibilities are mixed and BiH and the BiH Assembly are interfered in the final case. This is not the proposal of the BiH Assembly. Here is the proposal for the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3592	Replica, Alma Čolo, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3593	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and I think we have absorbed this issue. The Constitutional Commission has found that there is a constitutional basis and I do not see the need to discuss it here now. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Constitutional Commission is authorised to determine whether there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of laws to be laid down in the assembly procedure. As for the existence of the preamble of the Law to be delivered in the procedure, no provision of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House of Representatives says that the law must have a preamble. No provision of the BiH Constitution says so. Therefore, I also told the Constitutional Commission yesterday that there was no interference that the Constitutional Commission would determine whether the law was in accordance with the Constitution or not, regardless of the preamble, regardless of what the proposer subsequently delivered it and I do not think he was obliged to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3594	I must do the replica, first of all as an MP. Dear Members of Parliament, I am using my parliamentary right not to abuse the Commission's name. Representatives of one nation, the Serb people, did not vote for it, and I believe in the Commission, from the RS, of course, I think it is possible to pass this law and do not understand the language of coercion used here by MPs at all costs to agree to something that others want to agree to, but in another way. Why are we running from the facts? This is where the BiH presidency calls for a member, I must say that it calls for Article 3, please read. In Article 3, says it's not the first part where entities are said to agree but the second part, well, that's the additional jurisdiction of point 5a), I understand, part two, and in the second part, gentlemen, it says literally, I'm going to skip this to the point of the decimal, as you asked me not to take the time, so it says for the tasks foreseen by annexes 5 to 8. The general framework agreement or necessary to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and the international subjectivity of BiH in line with the division of competence between BiH institutions. In particular, gentlemen, I stress the division of competence, and I link it to the BiH presidency's responsibilities, which is Article 5(3), where it writes the responsibilities. I would ask the promoter to find only one point in the BiH presidency's jurisdiction to rely on, to which their quoted member is called. When I asked that on the Constitutional Commission, I wouldn't be given an answer or it couldn't be answered, and that's the one who said I was restrained because I wasn't given an answer or I couldn't be answered. I claim responsibly that I want the law to be passed, but in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, which is again, I repeat, Article 3rd point 4 and 5, and secondly, I can understand that 31 here have circled all sorts of stories and in order, first of all, to protect myself as a man and my integrity, I will not accept that what I say is wrong, I am for making, but not for pressing, not for any unfair decision here and I don't know why it is done. If, gentlemen, there's a story here that I can't give to the amendment, I won't even comment on mine. I gave it to you, laid the constitutional foundation. I'm behind what's written here. I think that should be regulated at BiH level. What's going on? What makes it impossible to negotiate? I don't know that. I wish I knew the answer, I'd be happy to know who's stopping us from negotiating in accordance with the Constitution. Here, look, no one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3595	Please, the chairman, you said that I had misused the Commission's name or the Commission itself. According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the PSBiH House, all decisions by the commission are made by majority vote. So there's no consensus in committees. Therefore, the Commission's decision to establish a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law has been made by a majority of the votes of the members of the Commission and such a decision is relevant and legal and, therefore, I have not misused the word of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3596	Thank you very much for explaining this, but it's very important to me that you explained it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3597	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like first to remind Mr. Chairman that he is the chairman of the House of Representatives, not the House of Peoples, and then not to speak of the Serbian people and representatives of the Serbian people, but to citizens and the House of Peoples, it is likely that the representatives of the Serbian people will be able to express themselves in this way. I would like to give my support of the Bill on Border Services, not because in 16 days of this service, these people will appear at the border, but because we need it and because I think that this law, regardless of what I have in a certain way compromise solutions, is very concise and clear and respects the current situation. If this is about the amendments I have here, I would say that the Coalition for the CD BiH had certain amendments, but is pulling them back to pass such a law, but it would be good if the amendments were made in writing so that we could comment on them. Mr. Banjac isn't here. We have his amendments and we will be able to express ourselves nicely and give our opinion because they are written, although I would recommend that he withdraw them. However, counterpart Rakić expressed this in his oral presentation and, as I understand it, the composition of entity services will reflect political structures because it is said of the '97 elections. The composition will be members of political parties, as only political parties can reflect the composition of the elections, and certainly no national composition, so I would like to explain it a little so that we can clearly determine ourselves according to its amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3598	Thank you very much, Mr. Čaršimanović. According to what I got, Mr. Deretić now has a word. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3599	Dear colleagues chairing, fellow MPs, I, in fact, have, as far as this proposal for a Law on the Border Service is concerned, already put deep reserves at the beginning of my discussion. On that occasion, I noted the provisions of the Bosnian Conference, held on December 9th and 10th, '97. The year where it was then, literally, indicated at point 6. that the Council requires BiH to make laws concerning the work and competences of the Border Police. First of all, it was meant by the Border Police, which refers to the entity one and the other. Only the Madrid Declaration comes to a certain turn, and this is where it is sought and insisted that border police be formed at BiH level. I am deeply convinced, based on the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH, the RS Constitution, that police are fully in the entity's jurisdiction, since this is one of the most important issues for one state. It would have been perfectly normal if the legislator had thought otherwise, that, in any case, he would have put this authority of the police where they would have, for which they would have been competent joint institutions. However, I would like to say one other thing here and that's how it came in general and how the procedure has run to the adoption of this bill. The procedure has been under way since the 6th month of this year, where members of the Joint Presidency gave a joint statement on 26th, 24th of this year, '99. A year. We discussed this idea, if I wasn't wrong, at the 9th and 10th months and I personally, as an MP, I didn't know at all or knew from anyone that such a statement was given, because I would have reacted if I had known. On the other hand, such interviews with the most responsible officials appeared in the media, especially with officials from the international community, international mediators, and in this context I had the opportunity to hear one of the highest of them, who literally said, "That MPs in Parliament, in the BiH Representative Council, bring this law by the end of the year, because otherwise it will be imposed." That's what offered me one, really, deep thought, because it's not the first time. What is the role of our MPs here in the BiH Parliament, because if the law is imposed, then I don't think there's any need for us to exist here, then it would be best to introduce a classic protectorate with a protector at the head who will bring legal regulations and then we'll be spared all of these here outwittings, dealing with verbal etc. In the end, I would just like to say, when it comes to the legal basis of which today was the most discussion. It is not at all disputed that such a regulation can be passed, that this is literally indicated in Article 3(4), where the BiH Presidency can decide, to facilitate co-operation between entities that do not fall under BiH's jurisdiction, therefore, to adopt, to propose the adoption of one such law, but on one condition, which is that one entity does not oppose the adoption of such a legislation. For this very reason, I have always been explicitly against such a legal rule, because I know that up to today we do not have the opinion of the entity, in particular the RS and its assembly that has to be declared and has to make a decision to the two-thirds majority, because only after that could we, and MPs from the RS, declare this and give their opinion. Otherwise, if such a law is passed, it is inevitable that the entity law will also have to be harmonised at BiH level. Given all that I've said, I here clearly and loudly say that no legal conditions have yet been created for the adoption of such a legislation and I will vote against it in front of my party. 33
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3600	Thank you, Mr. Deretić, Mr. Lagumdžija has his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3601	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow guests, Mr Bogić Bogičević expressed on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club the views of the SDP which I do not want in any way, despite this discussion which went in the direction that was different from our proposal. I want to say that we are still standing in the attitudes that we expressed at the outset. However, I have been offered these questions and the debate that has been conducted, and I am obliged to say a few words. I have to admit, there are a few things here that really encouraged me. I was encouraged by the assessment I heard from my colleagues from RS, a colleague of Rakić, that the border service in RS had received all the praise for its work. It is, indeed, for me, I must admit, one great encouragement, the more I doubt that if he were here, if he were even present, I would not see him today, or perhaps he is there, the Prime Minister of the Federal Government, who is also our colleague in this home. I doubt he would have had the courage to make such a statement that for federal border services, there is an undivided opinion, or at least the largest number of ordinary people, and even us here, they think that the federal services that now cover the border crossing territories of the Federation of BiH services that cannot earn a passing grade. In other words, since that is the case, I think this law has come well, so having someone who works well, someone who does bad things, maybe this unification would help make this common service work even better and that those who do good help those who do not. I must say that we are on the stand and I repeat that all the amendments that we have had and in preparation for this session that we have prepared, we have withdrawn them, or we have not put them in the procedure, respecting what we have been told in preparation for this session that the OHR request to adopt this without amendments. However, the OHR's request was not primary for us. For us, it was the primary fact that the BiH Presidency agreed on this and that after a long time, the BiH Presidency managed to come up with one position that, regardless of what we would like, we considered a psychological shift towards the BiH presidency coming up with a proposal that, behold, makes a better solution than we have now. But the real basis for us, not legal, but the real basis, besides all the constitutional grounds that certainly exist, is what we're looking for, I'm right to tell you, I don't remember if it was '97, and it seems to me it was '98. Before, '98. Yes, it is. We headed for the procedure in front of the SDP MPs' club that touched similar materials, then again 5-6 months ago, headed into the procedure, both times it was rejected. I remind you, and now the BiH presidency has come with a proposal like this. We do not stand at the point of view that our proposal, which is better than that, is now in the process, because we appreciate the effort made by the BiH Presidency. To remind you, the real basis for these initiatives was the fact that last year, according to statistics from international institutions, an indicative billion dollars of goods entered BiH than was recorded in various ways. Some say it's not a billion than it is, okay, but in any case, the figures that concern, so to speak, all of us together. The real basis for this is that the absence of this service in the country makes corruption and crime incomparably greater than it is, we can also accept the various funds of which the living are increasingly empty and empty and have a chance to be even more empty. For this reason, we propose that such a law be adopted in Parliament, but with one assessment that we consider it insufficient as a 34 solution that meets the needs of the real situation, but that, however, it is a shift in relation to what we have now. However, we also want the position of the SDP MPs' Club to be transferred to OHR if this is not adopted in Parliament, that the OHR then adopt what they would do to themselves, for themselves, for the country from which they come. This parliament has the opportunity to adopt a solution that is compromiseable, or that, probably tomorrow, we get something that many will not like, which is against such a solution. I therefore want to draw attention and we will demand from the OHR that, if this is not adopted today, the solution imposed by the OHR is a solution which, under the first as soon as possible, as soon as possible for people on the border, as soon as possible for hohstuplers and criminals and various mobsters stop smuggling goods in BiH cost all citizens. For that reason, I would ask, before we move on to a vote or anything, to draw attention, Mr. Chairman, that we now have several options. We have the opportunity to give up our amendments and vote on this law, that's one possibility. Another possibility is that the proposer, in this case, the BiH Presidency, would accept whether or not to accept these amendments, and then vote. But it is not acceptable to put this law to the vote now, and that the BiH presidency, as a proposing, does not give its position on this. I don't know who's ready for it and who's got the chance to grade it. For me, it's a metric assessment that someone's going to go out for this pay phone and say, "I accept or do not accept those amendments, and then we vote on them." I repeat, it is unacceptable to vote without the proposer's attitude in the extreme. The reason for my address is what we heard last time, in the past session, from Mr. Tomić, who himself spoke alarmly enough to us, and judging by this debate on the economic situation in the country, it seems we didn't get it right or we heard it, and it went past us, because every day the border service at the borders of BiH makes less funds for the people who chose us here. That is why we insist on changing the current situation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3602	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think I was talking at all today about the proposal of this law, not to make any objections or amendments, but I think it's a good thing that after a break of discussion she got into quieter waters and that maybe there's no need for some bile debates, related, all of these are normal problems that cause BiH and the burning problems and we can probably discuss them in a peaceful atmosphere. I, above all, am interested, so I don't know, so I ask if there is anyone who can tell me, can on behalf of the BiH Presidency and is authorised on behalf of the BiH Presidency by Mr Ante Grbić, who is signing for the BiH Presidency Secretariat to give the preamble and interpretation of the Constitution? Is there any authority and is it in accordance with BiH's legal regulations, I don't know if I could continue the discussion, I'm interested in whether this is a valid document that we've received? Is there anyone who can answer me? Since there's no answer, I'll continue the story. I want to make it clear to the citizens of BiH that every debate about each vital legal project points to the tragic position of BiH. Every letter of this law and every letter of the Law on the Border Service written by any member of the 35 BiH presidency, or anyone from the Professional Service, I will publicly eat in front of the BiH public, as well as any letter of the Election Law written by Mr Drago Ljubičić, who at least accepted himself and listened to everything about the law in which he participated just as much as my little Aleksandar, who is 12 or 13 years old. Therefore, I want to say, can you imagine whether there is more hypocrisy than three members of the presidency on behalf of BiH accept the obligation because he is a high representative, turning their ears like a feeding tail, forcing them to publicly declare that they are for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3603	Please, Ambassador, don't use such expressions, I beg you. You're an economist. You're not a pagan.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3604	Let the Gentiles rebel. You're not a Gentilesman either. I'm asking you just a little bit to listen to the people in what a tragic position we are in. If, indeed, Mr Jelavić, Mr Izetbegović and Mr Živko Radišić have taken over their duties, then this law has no chance of failing. There's no need for amendments, but why not today, gentlemen? Until a moment ago, I saw Mr. Counselor and Mr. Živko Radišić, while he came to the agenda of the law, there are no people. What's going on in BiH? Now let me say another thing about the law. It's this tragic position and it's these tragic debates and we won't be out of this situation for long, unfortunately, because we've got representatives of the people behind our backs working for the people. Now let me tell you about the law. As an MP, I am asking members of the BiH presidency, I guess I have the right to respect the BiH Constitution. Once it must be made clear to the members of the BiH presidency that the Constitution is sacred, I guess, for them. In this Constitution, gentlemen, Article 3rd point 4 literally writes, the BiH presidency can decide to facilitate co-operation between entities, that is quite logical, not only for the border service, in things that do not fall within the authority of BiH, as provided for by this Constitution, unless one entity opposes the given case. To make things better, so I'll tell you why I don't make amendments and make my position clear about this law. They have attitudes, I don't know if they've been available to you or not. In line with the proposal for a conclusion of the 5th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that discussed these problems in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia where it is said, conclusion number 2. At the same time, the debate on the political and legal aspect of the New York Declaration of the Republic of Slovenia expressed serious reserves in (disputes with the solutions in the proposed link between the common border police, the single passport, etc.).). I, as an MP from the RS who respects the Parliament of the RS, but also the Parliament of the Federation of BiH, have no moral right, I ask you, and the Bošnjak and Hrvat to now, do not have the moral right to come out of these conclusions, not because I do not want to vote on the Law or I am against the Law, but I ask the BiH Joint Authorities to open an inter-entity dialogue on all issues that are within the Constitution, so that we do not show all our misunderstandings in front of the eyes of both Bošnjak and Hrvat and musliman, and therefore I ask you to understand what I am going to have with this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3605	Are those four people? 36
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3606	Maybe I skipped a nation or a minority, don't be angry, it's a little bit of a break, so we're tired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3607	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, here, as far as I can see, have two dimensions. The first is a political dimension. Everyone wants it to be shown that he is responsible precisely because this law has been found, of course, to those who support the Law that was found in this status that he is and what, if we don't accept him, will be imposed, and everyone wants to be the one who started it. The BiH Party started fighting for this, if we are to speak like this, on 14 April 1996, it continued in '97, meetings with experts, especially in March and April, to which we invited the gentlemen from other parties, did not come. In 1998, it was also, and here it is in 1999. If it's a bid, who did what? The BiH party, later in '97, helped the koalicija do so, to make it clear and not to forget, if we already talk about it. The second, functional side, if it were the correct data, gentlemen, if there were 900 entities dealing with exporting wood to BiH, then I would have told this colleague who had just said whether there was a legal basis, constitutional etc., for me, of course, there is. Have there been conditions to protect BiH and BiH citizens from robbing BiH? Which people, which foreigners may be in favor of, are left without one resource that is not easy to restore, which is a tree, and we will remain. The tree is cut unselectively. Export as anyone will. 900 people, I don't know how many sawmills, some tell me 2,000, I'm not sure, take it with a spare, but in any case, that store, I'm just hanging on to it, is on the level of the 13th century where we have documents that the tree was exported just this way. It's cut down and sold, like in Dubrovnik, that's how the tree was exported. No additional so-called. The value of this, which is a new economic dictionary, is not today. We're even going to get that tree out and make furniture out of it, and if that whole traffic was done, I'd pray for silence there, that we could hear ourselves here, that this whole job would be done and nobody would pay the dinar, and that's why we need it, let's say, and that's one reason. My colleagues presented other reasons before me. Can we allow in the name of which people someone can come out and say that it is good and that we should wait and talk about this law, and we should talk and talk. We've been talking about this in public since '96. A year. At the first press conference of the BiH Party, that was issue number one, because from earlier on, the robbery takes place until today. Whoever says we need to continue talking about this, in fact, allows what we're doing to continue. At the same time, we don't have 10,000 marks for one house to restore the roof to a man who wants to return to his house. We're looking for international organisations glass, wood, please, while millions pass us by every day. In the interest of what people is that? It cannot be in the interest of the citizens of BiH, no people, it cannot be that. It may be in the interest of some groups robbing BiH. Therefore, I would pray when it comes to this law, if we can overcome these party divisions and national ones a little bit, etc. The best way to protect BiH citizens and to fill the budget and entities and the state is to protect the border. If we don't pass that law, if we extend it by seven days, you know that, say, 10 to 15 million marks are lost. In whose interest is that? Which party that speaks for any nation can say it's in her best interest, no one can. To know that robbery happens every day and has nothing to do with nationality, but it has to do with smuggling and robbery. I'm talking about the problem of exporting wooden construction, because I accidentally followed it, and 37 I know, and I've been insisting for a very long time on stopping the BiH robbery that way. There are probably many other segments that others can talk about better. But if we have 900 subjects, the data is from the press, it doesn't have to be true, which is exporting wood construction, 900, what do you think happens in BiH and if we have 2,000 sawmills as they say, and if that memory is done indiscriminately, it's a problem from smuggling to ecology, to the robbery of every BiH citizen, and that's why we need that law, not that we're keeping someone in prison in BiH. We need boundaries to mean less to us tomorrow, which is why we need them, not so much more if we go to the Pact for Southeast Europe. I think it's the resistance that has some background, if you'll excuse me, the Balkan and so little spite, etc. Otherwise, if we're looking for every citizen's interest, really, then we'll vote for that law. If we're going to protect our economy, believe me, we can't do it without borders. It's a vain story about our economy, our privatisation, everything if we don't have it, and if anyone can get in as anyone wants to do what they want, it doesn't matter which entity, which nation, and what it's called, the one who does it. He's working for us BiH citizens. Let's get this over with. We have the law and the state as well as any other state. Against whom it may be. Let's try to talk a little rationally about it. It's not that, it's not about the unitary state, it's not about the boundaries that will separate any of Serbia or Croatia, it's not about that. On the contrary, we are going towards the moment when these borders will be less relevant and when what is at the borders of Austria and Italy will be at our borders. Today, the problem with Austria and Italy is that customs officers and police officers who stopped there are out of business. They don't have a job, why? Well, they don't have anyone to stand there. It will also be here, but right now, let's get into the ranks of those countries that are most normal and have their borders and their countries and protect the citizens of BiH. There's not much politics here. Believe me, if we don't do it, the robbery will continue and we all know it. There is none of us here who sits who doesn't know that BiH is being robbed in every way possible. At the same time, people receive 80 marks and 120 marks anywhere, so on, why don't we do that? Who's that against? Except for spite and a little, of course, it's a kind of sport with us, if you want and the characteristics of one and that's why we're chosen by the people here to overcome these problems that we have and to put these people at the border once and to make it legal and to be okay and to agree on it. It is not a plus or a minus of any of us, but a need that we will have to meet sooner or later in accordance with our obligations to the citizens. I'm willing to accept that law. There's no need to impose if we accept it. If we don't accept it, it means we really need to impose it and we're not up to this duty we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3608	Radenka replica, I didn't hear, I'm sorry, Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3609	Dear MPs and MPs, I would have cut this discussion short as a quality if it hadn't been for a little late in '99. A year, since '92. It's been a long time. One fantastic example that I insist on proposing and proposing, and it doesn't pass, which is that maybe this border service isn't necessary because of it since '92. We have the perfect age for what he had in '92. A year. If we were protecting ourselves, we'd be looking for at least '94. years to see who has it now what he never had, so it's not a dispute. Believe me, it would be much better for me. If that's the reason, I'll respect someone else just not that reason. Something about corruption, crime, so don't you think that all these newly-roasted rich people have become rich since '78, so in my town, I know about people who have, which are not controversial, but there are those who, first of all, we should adopt it, and then, in my opinion, this is just 38 replicas of you because I think '99. years won't, border service for everything that's been done so far. Let's go since '99. It can be controlled, and so far what's done is fantastic we can go out and meet everyone and prove it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3610	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs and chairman, today we have a very important agenda point and, as distinguished counterpart Silajdžić, or co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers on this number of saws, it would really be ugly to promote this PSBiH House as a 2001 sawmill, if this information is correct, and apparently tends to be one such environment. In view of the first one of the three meetings of the Constitutional Commission and the oaths that we are all for the New York Declaration, and then the slow transition from form to essence, which has been clear to us from the SDP since the beginning. About this sawmill, to be perfectly clear. Here is the information about the loss every day due to the lack of border police. These are the data ahead of the official data that Europe is dealing with. Data in Europe are much higher. According to these data, we are in a period while Mr Mihajlović, Mr Silajdžić, Mr Ašanin, Neven Tomić, Prlić, and less so is the same concept, in that period lost two and a half billion marks. Don't sell now that that's the responsibility of all of us. You can't say as co-chair, as one of the most responsible people, why we didn't have this law in '96. And '97. and an alibi to look at the press conference. It can't be the communist logic that I am both the government and the opposition. It cannot come before the BiH Council of Ministers, which falls by the Constitutional Court. It's not ready to agree on anything and from this PSBiH House of Representatives to make a sawmill, a new sawmill. You can't talk about merits. There's no merit here. If someone is fighting for credit from the aspect of what we have in BiH today, Mr Silajdžić, you are responsible for it, we are withdrawing from those merits. We are withdrawing the credit for the present state, for this Parliament, for its flow, even for this law. We support this law because we started to believe the press conferences of the BiH presidency that they agreed on something important for this country. We stopped believing when there was no one from the BiH presidency to respond to the amendments today. Finally, with all the remarks I've made, I'd like to ask the chairman, so that we don't turn this into an infinite story of merits that are not available, there's merit in a negative sense for this state, they're located in a concept that's recognizable, visible and personal and partyly to make a clear statement here. Do we have a proposing here who's willing to make a statement about the amendments? If there is no, you should break up and that the Proposer declares the amendments, because we, as the PSBiH House of Representatives, shouldn't go past the promoter who appeared in this procedure with a bit of a chaotic explanation, the hour constitutionally, on this basis, on this basis, the hour on this one, but, finally, on some basis we got, I would pray that they would just define themselves. If we don't, we break up, I guess this is an important thing to the BiH Presidency, and I expect that within 2-3 hours while we take a break for lunch to meet and take a stand on these amendments, we will enter our part of responsibility against all of this that we have all talked about, corruption and crime, and we will be in a position to plead on the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3611	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I won't be wasting much time because it's really been spent today. I'm sorry that as MPs we ever agreed to even discuss the law without a gentleman who accepted it in New York without us getting a chance to have another debate on the regular procedure of the bill. 39 You gentlemen, whose profession it is, shall go to the regular procedure of this house, if he shall be the house and we messengers to the messengers, and shall go to the amendments, and the Lord shall declare himself. The second day we come or the second time, so if we don't agree to try and accept my proposal, that we get to New York, maybe we'll make a deal there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3612	Fellow MPs, gentlemen of the chairman, I'd like to ask one question and an explanation of why I'm asking. The other day, I went to the Republic of Croatia and crossed the Ponton Bridge in Gradišca and on this side of the RS looked at me there, opened the trunk and what they didn't do and eventually let me go. Now here today, from all the discussions I've heard, I've gotten the impression that BiH has no border service. I don't know what these guys were doing out there with what right? If you're interested in me telling you what they were doing there at Šid's, same Srbin, I'm not talking about Hrvat, but I won't. If the fact is that, however, there is a border service in the BiH state, but the fact that it works badly, well, there are so many trees coming out of BiH, so imagine when a tree is cut, at least five km of motorbike is heard. So maybe it wasn't in the root that we should have cut down those billions of marks, if we let the tree go, and the stamps stayed in BiH, just maybe it wasn't in satisfactory places. If it's not a good border service, which I think there's a gap, then I'm asking a question, is the solution to passing a new law on the border service that will essentially put Slavko in the position of Željko, to put Kas to ask Kasim and put Ivo away and set up Marijan, so to speak, is that the solution to the problem? If that's the solution, then I'm asking what's so important to the legislator of this law whether the border zone is 30 km, 10 km, why it's not 100 meters like in all the countries of the world. It's about whether it's 30, 10 km, etc. There's some background behind this bill. I think I have more arguments to defend some background hiding, but, well, I won't do it anymore. It seems to me that almost all the debaters here, except for Mr. Vita, were having such free debates, there was no question at all about the law, nor the amendments, but I would really like someone to answer my questions with arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3613	I'm asking you not to talk about the tree anymore, because it's the law, it's going to be a forest ceremony. Let's make a deal. We have a few things to discuss. At four o'clock, we've got to do a work cut-off. There have been some quality suggestions here that we need to make a statement about and see what we can do next. Is there any possibility that the Proposer will be able to make a statement about the amendments here? No way. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3614	As far as I know, Mr. Radišić is in Banja Luka today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3615	So we don't even have a proposal, we don't have a chance to make any statements about the amendments. I have another question. I apologize to Mr. Trnki, but we need to know what to do next. So, since no one intervened, we have no right to amendments. The amendments were made. I ask the MPs who gave the amendments if they're giving up the amendment? No, I don't. They're not giving up. Did Mr. Trnka get all the amendments? He didn't win. I ask the Service to give Mr. Trnki all amendments that have arrived. I'd break 40 of this point right now, because there's no point in further discussing this point, only if there's someone to discuss, here, I'm not yet. I'd break this point. Now we have a few questions, since the rest of the agenda is relatively quick to complete. It's not. We have a proposal, you know our conclusion. To keep the session going the next day. Is there a problem? There is. Here are some, how many MPs have problems, let's see, raise their hands and see what's up? Who can't tomorrow? We agreed, but we'll lose the quorum, practice is one thing. I have two suggestions. I have one proposal to proceed tomorrow at 10, that's one proposal, according to the conclusions. If we can get into an awkward position that way, will the BiH presidency meet tomorrow by 10 and do this part of the job, I don't think so. That's one serious problem. I'd suggest the following. Let's continue this session on Tuesday, and we'll continue next Wednesday. It's for me to break one principle a little bit, but you can't just come back tonight, you have to go to a religious ceremony and it's quite logical, but on Tuesday, please, let's start working at 10 o'clock. We don't need to call ourselves together anymore as far as this agenda is concerned. Interrupt until Tuesday at 10 o'clock, you'll be notified. Thank you very much. The session is over at 4:00. 41
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3616	Representatives, respected guests, since today it is the 15th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was interrupted in 15.12.1999, and here we have stopped, at the 2nd item of the agenda. This time we will continue the 15th session, and then we will agree on a 16th session that should find its place and time in Parliament. I warmly welcome and thank you for your presence. One news here, my little one will be running this session today because Mr. Mirko Banjac, as chairman of the PSBiH House of Representatives, is ill, has health problems and is currently in the hospital, according to my information, and therefore I say, I, as the first chairman, will try to run this session. Of course, you can help me, that is, I asked from Mr. Jadrank Tomić's Secretariat to strictly record your report, so we wouldn't have any problems, or we wouldn't skip someone. In addition, Mirko Banjac, as chairman of this house, wants to be read to him by a greeting from the following content: "kolega and colleagues of the representatives, to you and your families, people and citizens of BiH, congratulations on Christmas, biram and New Year's holidays." I personally join the congratulations and wish a quick recovery to Mr. Banjac and Mr. Ivo Mijačević and Mr. Ljubomir Zovki, who also, I have here a report that he is ill. We hope to see them here in Parliament as soon as possible. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, according to the service report, 24 MPs are present, 18 of them from the Federation of BiH and 6 from the RS, we have a quorum and we can make good decisions. They announced their apology, i.e. the justification for his absence from the session: Ivo Mijačević, who has been sick for a long time and I ask the Secretariat to officially hand him a card in front of us and wish him the sooner he can heal, the same is true for Mirko Banjac, Milenko Bošnjak, Ljubomir Zovk, who has also justified his absence because of the disease and in recent times Mr Ivo Lozančić. Since we have a quorum, we have the right to make legitimate decisions, I propose that we start working in relation to the adopted agenda at the 15th session, we inform you that we have proposals to remove the point of the report on the public procedure of the draft a) Election Act, Proposer Drago Ljubičić and (b) Election Law, the proposing group of representatives of the SDP Club, because of the prevention of the relevant representatives of the OHR, to attend today's session. Next is the debate on the clarification of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3617	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, I am truly surprised not to use the harsh word for this proposal, not to discuss today the draft laws of the Electoral Law, just a little bit of what is becoming clear to me. The whole nation, we have convinced the whole country that this is our top priority, we have set clear deadlines and now to postpone, that is, try to postpone the debate on the law because there are no relevant representatives. The relevant representatives of the Law, the electoral law is neither OHR nor OSCE, but Mr Drago Ljubičić. If Drago Ljubičić withdraws his law from the procedure, I can have an understanding of such a thing, and that requires a particular explanation. As you can see, the SDP Parliament Club is here. I really wouldn't want us to accept here in such a simple way that one of the most important tasks is delayed, especially since every night, on all the televisions, we have an imperative in all the newspapers. That's where we're being told, get the MPs to adopt the law. Those who say that they should force the MPs to adopt the law now demand a stay of the law. I'd like to ask the OHR and OSCE gentlemen to explain their reasons a little bit more. Is it perhaps holidays, vacations, and then let's see the priority of these tasks in the international community and so little to discuss about such a relationship which, in my opinion, is very, very unprincipled?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3618	Mr. Tokić, just one question. Are you suggesting that both election laws go into procedure, or just...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3619	Absolutely, let's discuss both election laws today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3620	Thank you very much. Do any of the international community gentlemen need to explain this position? Why would this Electoral Law go a long way for the next session today? The promoter, unfortunately, is also not there, I forgot to say it immediately in this explanation, why it should not be in the agenda. I asked her to extend this point... to the Secretariat and the OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3621	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I think that the electoral issue or debate over electoral laws, drafts and each other is quite complex issues and that we have conducted quite a serious debate and have given serious amendments, especially to this law where Mr Ljubičić's proposal is, of course, with the help of the most important international representatives in BiH. I don't think it should be specifically explained that the high international diplomats and offices they observe are already on one occasion, everywhere in the world of a desirable holiday, about Christmas holidays and other holidays, which are celebrated everywhere in the world, and I don't think we should be asking a lot of questions if we can't solve the problem and I think that gentlemen should also congratulate the upcoming holidays to rest nicely and continue working in line with the international community's efforts to get BiH into the Council of Europe and to build all the positive legal regulations that BiH is leading to the Council of Europe. We won't achieve anything today if we open a heated debate about why someone isn't there, whether it's a memo, by question 43, etc. It is very important for us MPs today that none of the legislators have any and cannot be shown, regarding the amendments that the MPs have made. Now it's just a question, a dilemma, whether a legal project that the Social Democrats have put into debate, whether to open a debate today because the promoter is there, and, behold, I will make my point. Given that we have both drawn into the debate, with some equal procedure, I would ask the Social Democrats of BiH, and, of course, as the MPs of this Representative Council declare, I will respect that decision, to open this debate immediately after the New Year's holidays, that we do not waste time now whether we are there, whether there is no OHR, whether there are representatives of the international community or not. It's obvious that today, I've got the agenda, I have to say, at which point this point is removed from the agenda, so one and another draft, that's what I got from the Secretariat. Knowing this problem of observing the work of the joint bodies of BiH, that is in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3622	Do you have a proposal to adopt this agenda that the College has proposed?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3623	I got him like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3624	I'm just asking you. I hope you're the agenda the College adopted and proposed to the MPs you've won. I'll tell you, I haven't even gotten there yet, actually, we're having a discussion about this. We continue to work with the next draft agenda. 1. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Border Service; 2. Proposal for a Decision on the Organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 3.. infomracija on laws adopted by the High Representative on temporary grounds continues to be carried out by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 4. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIME European Railway Park Financing Company; 5. Central Bank’s reply to the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives; 6. Giving consent to the appointment of the main auditor of BiH and the deputy auditor and 7. Agents' issues, which is our proposal to extend behind the 16th session. With these six points, the College's proposal would be for the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3625	Chairman, I'd just like to be purely business, as a serious institution, to determine what we're discussing. We adopted the agenda for this session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3626	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3627	Today, an initiative to take down certain points of the agenda appeared in the follow-up to this session. I'm just asking, asking you to define clearly before voting on this issue, who's asking for a dot off the agenda and for what reasons, just to define it. If Mr Špirić can be a representative of the OSCE and OHR, obviously as far as the Election Law is concerned, I can accept the explanation, I have nothing against the holidays, we can wish them all individually pleasant holidays, but only to define why these points are removed from the agenda. If it's a college, let him explain why. On behalf of the SDP, we would, of course, like to have a single debate on the Election Law, because this is the same theme, it would be irrational and incorrect to discuss one draft electoral law today and the next session, only if Mr Drago Ljubičić definitely withdrew his proposal, then, of course, there is no need to stop one very important legislative project and Parliament's task because of one withdrawn proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3628	Thank you, Mr. Tokić. In the meantime, I got a short memo that reads like this. As for the discussion of the new Electoral Law, given the current circumstances, we propose that the debate be postponed by the beginning of January, the OHR sent it. Please copy this memo and forward it. Is there anyone else to discuss? Here you go, Mr. Dokić. I'd like to ask you to come out and make sure it's recorded.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3629	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the esteemed presidency, I hope these reasons will be respected which suggest that the electoral law be removed from today's debate. Personally, I think your reasons are justified. We don't need to stick our heads in the sand. We know who the initiator is and who's behind that one law. We must respect the reasons of those people who could not be present today at this session, even hope that we will vote on it. What I wanted to intervene is this. I'm against removing parliamentary questions from the 15th session. Mr. Chairman, I beg you, you have been referred first of all. I repeat again, I am against removing parliamentary questions from the 15th session. We need to finish the 15th session regularly, and then we'll talk about the 16th session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3630	Is there anyone else to discuss?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3631	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a set agenda for this session. I suggest we start working on the agenda, so the second point we've been at is the draft law on the Border Service; 3. A report on the debate, when we get to that point, then we'll make a decision to take it off or not take it off, and then we'll move on to the agenda. 45 Therefore, we cannot now adopt the agenda of any other, we have adopted it, when we arrive at the agenda of this 3rd then we will make a decision and do so and not open the debate now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3632	Is there anyone else to discuss? We have two suggestions here. The college agreed that we have the agenda as you have, I hope, got, modified with these two, so that this item of the agenda is downloaded and we have this proposal that Mr. Rakić made, I think it is very reasonable, too, to go towards the adopted agenda from the 15th session, and when we get to point 3. to make it clear whether that point goes further in the procedure or not. I'm putting it now: I'm putting it to the vote, I think we can approach the vote. Now someone's got to decide. Are you up for us to continue on the agenda, the way we adopted at the 15th session at the time? I have to put it to the vote. I believe that according to the Rules of Procedure, we can adopt the agenda as it was at the 15th session. The agenda in which we should now pass on at this session is: 2. Proposal for a Law on the BiH Border Service; 3. Report on the public debate and the submission of proposals on drafts of the Electoral Law, the Proposer of Mr Drago Ljubičić and the Electoral Law of the Group of Members of the SDP Club 4. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat 5. Information on the laws declared by the High Representative on provisional grounds 6. The activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the sixth point speaks the way it is in the old proposal 7. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIME, I hope that is how it is read, the European Railway Park Funding Company 8. The Central Bank of BiH's response to the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives 9. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH Chief Auditor and Deputy 10. Parliamentary questions Do you agree with this agenda? We continue with point 2, and this is the proposal for a law on the Border State Service. We already had a discussion about that point, that is, about this law here, and according to the report that I have, that discussion is over. Therefore, we should only make known about the amendments, i.e. their adoption or refusal. The amendments they submitted were submitted two amendments, two groups of amendments better said and a response to these amendments, we received from the BiH Presidency, signed with Mr Ante Jelavić, a brief statement that you, hopefully, received on the agenda, says: amendments submitted by the Sylog Coalition and Mr Mirko Banjac, a representative at the BiH House of Representatives are not accepted. A brief explanation. For the above reasons, these amendments could not be accepted. This is a harmonised decision by all three members of the BiH presidency. Therefore, the BiH presidency rejects amendments submitted from either side of the law. We had 46 discussions then. Now we can just talk about this decision, about the amendments. Is there anyone in front of the promoter to explain anything here? A representative from the BiH presidency tells us this is enough. You have it in front of you, if you need to read it later, we can do it, but I think you have this argument on your desk and you don't need to paraphrasise it here specifically, or read it. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3633	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, try in as short a line as possible to give my view of this way of adopting the most important legal projects for BiH as a state. We had a statement last time, regarding the constitutional basis of this law, from an adviser or secretary, or I don't know what they call the services in the BiH presidency, Mr Grabovac, as far as I think, that's the letter you all got, that the constitutional basis for this law exists. I think that it must be clear to the citizens of BiH when a month before the debate on the Law on the State Border Service within the BiH Presidency and those who have promised to go without amendments opens so many controversyal tones. To make the accident bigger, today there are no members of the BiH presidency, and this is not a rare case of legal projects sitting here with us MPs and really saying whether they have reached agreement and rejected the smallest parliamentary amendment. I have information, gentlemen, that it has not been agreed, nor have the amendments been discussed within the BiH presidency. That is why I am not ready in front of the BiH public to take part in the debate on this law until until Mr Radišić, Mr Jelavić and Mr Alija Izetbegović sit here and simply see who deceives the citizens of BiH and the international community, especially because there is no constitutional basis. Because there is a fence of the RS Assembly, I asked you last time to have an understanding because the Republic Parliament has made serious reservations on this law and instead of opening the procedure for alignment, this is where the method of avoidance of members of the BiH presidency to make a clear statement to the public, here we get a letter writing below by Ante Jelavić, neither the chairman nor a member of the BiH presidency, etc. I'm not ready to argue until the gentlemen are here, and then I'm going to talk about the law as an MP. I think there's enough public deception in BiH who's in favour and who's against it. I don't think there's a constitutional basis. I don't think there's been an agreement within the BiH presidency, I don't even think they've discussed the amendments at all. If someone invited members of the BiH presidency out there and turned their ears, then this was the law introduced into the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representatives Council, not the Law that brought the BiH presidency into line and brought into debate with the Representative's Council.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3634	Thank you, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3635	Dear fellow Members of the Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, I would first and foremost agree with the discussion of my fellow Špirić, with what I cannot, simply as an MP for Parliament, and that I also do not say certain things. Namely, the mouth is full of some to work for the benefit of the people in BiH, that this well-being should be seen in the adoption of quality laws, etc. When it comes to this law that we should be declared today, in fact as someone's service and raise our hands to get the green light, and in fact I only feel here as a cover, in fact, for the adoption of certain legal rules that are being broken down by 47 here, primarily by the highest institutions of BiH, and behind them is someone third. I'm going to mention a few things here right now. 1. BiH presidency members signed a joint statement on the formation of the Border Service on 24 July. They held talks with representatives of the international community who said in September that it was BiH's priority, here above all I think of the representatives of the IPF, Mr Detef Buvit, I do not know if I read his last name and other high-ranking representatives of the international community correctly. To this day, I was not in a position as an MP even to get to know myself by the president, or a member of the Joint Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, about where it happened and what the purpose was, not only what I had learned through the public about the adoption of this law, but what it wanted to do at all costs, with the fact that I and the previous session, as an MP, made it clear and loudly clear that this legislation had no constitutional basis at all. I can only continue to claim that I feel as an MP at the PSBiH Representative Council, at certain times grossly abused by BiH's top officials. I do not think that such a way of working in any case contributes not only to the well-being of the peoples in BiH, but to creating mutual trust and that is what I cannot agree with. I, unfortunately, have the feeling that someone here has been subscribed to BiH, when it comes to one and the other entities, to the adoption of something, or, as I just said, a very ugly term of "substituting" to the people of certain legal regulations and countering, if it can't be directly opposed to that law, then the international community is being used and in this way certain legal rules are passed, which really have nothing to do with the Constitution of BiH, or the Dayton Agreement. For this very reason, we come to this position that here we MPs, at one point, at certain times, perhaps even in an incorrect and non-legislative way, and, unfortunately, this position is exactly what those who, together with us, are supposed to bring legal regulations on the basis of the highest legal acts of this state. In this context, I am expressing my revolt and extremely great dissatisfaction with our top representatives, and I believe that, if it continues to work, then I fear that we will not only enter the Council of Europe, as are some MPs who are representatives of these officials here, or are in the same party with the same large hole in their chests. It cannot be entered into the Council of Europe in the way we want to go in, at any cost, without meeting the essential things that Europe and the world are asking us to do. If we are going to enter the Council of Europe, and the other most international institutions, in a way that we will bring at all costs legal regulations, and whose consequences we will feel very quickly in application as boomerang, then I believe that such a way of working is indeed not appropriate and I do not think that such a way of working will bring any good. When I say this, first of all, I am also thinking about this legislation, and especially when it comes to the Electoral Law that we are under today, or about the proposals of the electoral laws that we were to discuss today, because very quickly, if we approach this business irresponsiblely and only bring this law for the reason that someone wants it to be passed at all costs, I say that we will feel the consequences very quickly, however, these consequences will only be felt by the peoples of BiH, and not by those who, at all costs, want to impose it here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3636	Thank you very much, Mr. Deretić, but please state your proposal here. 48
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3637	When it comes to the Law, Mr Špirić, I said at the beginning of my discussion that I fully agree with his proposal, so that today, at all, this bill is not being discussed at all, but that the people here who came forward, and also Mr Jelavić, here I am, just two minutes ago, Mr Dokić, I failed to look at the materials, delivered that memo. I think it is extremely irresponsible, let them come here and give us an answer in front of the people of BiH, in which way they agree and how they stand behind individual drafts or proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3638	Thank you very much. I would ask you, since we practically have until 4 o'clock, or by 16 o'clock, we with the work of this session and 16, if we can get there, we have to finish it and therefore we ask you and our proposal of the College to reduce the discussions to two minutes, if that's okay with you? If anyone disagrees, then, normally, this is just our proposal and our request.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3639	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, I will try to honour the recommendation of the College to keep the discussions as brief as possible. I will repeat the position of the SDP, which advocates that this law be passed. We advocate to be adopted in the original form as it has been highlighted according to European standards, primarily I mean the area where this border service works, which is to be 30 km. But given the compromises reached by our members of the BiH presidency, we are prepared to support this law and give up our amendments. However, my intervention primarily refers to the need for work, however, to be brought down into one framework that is procedurally, businessly established. The constitutional basis does not determine Deretić. Deretić, a colleague of Deretić, can remain on the stand that there is no constitutional basis. However, the Constitutional Commission has made the view legitimately that there is a constitutional legal basis. We can be dissatisfied with the work of members of the BiH presidency or partially satisfied, it is now for everyone else. However, we have received a very legitimate view from the BiH presidency that they do not accept any of these amendments. Now what we, as the PSBiH House of Representatives, need to do, is to make the chairman, I apologize for me interfering with the College's work, ask, because the debate is concluded on this agenda point, to the chairman of the amendment's request whether they give up or insist on their amendments. If they stay with their amendments, we declare ourselves individually about the amendments, and after that we declare ourselves to the Law. I think every other story is too high. I think it's pretty clear now. In the last session, it was unclear, and I was not on the Constitutional Commission, and I did not know, etc., so some thought that in fact, the problem of procedural nature, because here is quite clear, a certain group of MPs in Parliament do not accept the Law on the Border Service and some have legitimately said that. Now that there's a vote, let them make that clear. What my colleague Špirić said earlier, you shouldn't keep your head in the sand. The border service will be at the border of Saturday and, in that context, we just need to do our part of the job. When I say my part of the job, it's in the sense of the one who figured out the job here that they should vote against the law, let them do their part of the job.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3640	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Here we have one amendment promoter, another, unfortunately, not present here at the session, so we will have to decide, but on your proposal, Mr. Tokić, I do not mind saying Mr. Rakić, if he wants to, and then Mrs. Rađević comes to the turn, or Spahić, and then Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3641	Ladies and gentlemen, last time I tried to explain the amendments and I made it clear that there were four key things. Why I went to these 3-4 big things, simply calling on the Framework Agreement on the Reconstruction, Reform and Democratisation of the RS police signed by the leadership of the RS and the UN Mission to BiH, and the process takes place until the end. As nothing has been done in the Federation of BiH in the field of border service, which is border surveillance in the Federation of BiH, any problem must be raised to the highest level to address the BiH Federation problem. Therefore, I remain with my amendments. I'm not against the law like that with the amendments. But for the law that was proposed, without debate and the possibility of making amendments, I am not for him, and I will not vote for him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3642	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to wish that these 48 hours left until the border service exits to these basics, already certain border crossings to BiH, be used rationally and wisely in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In my deep belief, there is something that is unconstitutional, such as the unstoppable process of receiving BiH in the Council of Europe in April 2000, in the middle of April, is so unconstitutional and the fact that the people, I would only like to paraphrasise one sentence that I have now heard, have negative ones, I say that the people will have positive consequences and the citizens of BiH will in no way have negative consequences, by the people, by the economy, by the jobs of our ministries, by income for BiH. Because it will have positive consequences for what is the essential interest of BiH, which is European integration and open borders. On behalf of the open borders, on behalf of co-operation with the neighbours, on behalf of co-operation with Europe and the world, we need to approach the decision of this law rationally today. I also want to define myself quite precisely, I think that the signing of the BiH presidency has changed in our practice in accordance with the European standards so that functions under the names are no longer signed, but are put in the head and put in both languages. Since the Office of the High Representative is the only final interpreter of the General Peace Agreement. If he has agreed, as the only final interpreter of the Peace Agreement and the Dayton Constitution, according to the Dayton Constitution and the Peace Agreement, it is quite correct that we now turn to the decision-making process and that I would not be complicated, I would like us to decide today. We have before us the position of the promoter, in line with the Council of Ministers of BiH and with the Office of the High Representative, which is final, undermining, the interpreter of the General Peace Agreement, we have our amendments made by our colleagues and to finish this job if we can get this done as soon as possible within the most rational decisions Parliament can make. 50
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3643	Thank you very much, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3644	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, on behalf of the amendment promoter to the Law on the Border Service of Mr Mirko Banjac, I am authorised to declare that he does not give up any amendments and remains with them. Secondly, I propose that this law be returned to the motionary in the re-processing procedure to prepare him so that he will certainly be able to pass it here in Parliament without a problem. Third, the replica to Mr. sejfudini Tokić. Calling on that the Constitutional Affairs Commission has established that this law has a constitutional basis, it is not at all debateable, we know how it was, and fortunately in BiH, there is a Constitutional Court if that is what should come of it. However, I also claim that this law may have a constitutional basis, but this one that is now in front of us does not. It may have and we are willing, here, I dare say on behalf of all MPs whose group I belong to that we are willing to talk about it and to really pass this law so that it has constitutional basis, which means that the BiH Presidency makes a combination, with the competent authorities in entities and that then the harmonised text of the Law comes here before us. It's clear to all of us that that's not the case now. But if, in 48 hours, this law is going to be implemented in life, we can't do anything about it, but we can honestly and honestly say that we understand that someone is ordering us, so if someone has the power and the power to order, go ahead, people are always willing to suffer, but it always goes to some limit.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3645	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rađević. I apologize to Mr. Špirić, who answered the line as far as I could understand.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3646	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not good for BiH that the MPs who are just discussing the legislative project say something will be realised or that it is under way, regardless of the legal solutions. It is not building BiH as a rule of law, it is not what the citizens of BiH are aiming for. That is why I say MPs must participate in the debate, to come to a legal project for the benefit of BiH citizens, not to say no matter how it is, thank Bog, they come out on 31.12 and stand at the borders. It will not be the service that would be if this parliament passed a legal project and stood behind it, I am against such solutions. I think this kind of debate, however, whatever we decide, is going to happen, of course it's going to happen, but that's not what it is, it's not BiH as a legal state, in that sense I mean.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3647	I am asking you to bring this debate to an end and by voting, to make a statement on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3648	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this discussion of mine which I hope won't last long, but I would ask the chairman not to interrupt me, because many have spoken of this point last time and in the context of what should not have been spoken about this point of the agenda. At the very beginning, I would like to say that we MPs are not so helpless, that we should not be so helpless, that we have made ourselves helpless, and that we have given ourselves to the situation to be helpless. If we have a feeling there's something wrong with the Constitution, then it's our obligation to endure until it's clear, it's our superior task here, and nothing else. In this context, I would ask some fellow MPs to really show a minimum of principle, because when something suits them, then they Anathemize international representatives, and when something else suits them in another context, then they are called and nominated and that force is imposed on us in one undemocratic and unconstitutional way. I'm not a lawyer, but by hanging out with them for the last few years, I can clearly see, and that's the last debate that showed here that there's no clear constitutional basis. I will remind you of the words when I said that I also learned something from the words of the greatest Crnogorac and one of the greatest Serbian writers, Petar Petrović Njegoš, who says the evil years of the eagle, made him winter among the chickens. But let me get back to this part now. The last debate showed nicely, even the President of the Constitutional Court was unable to deny that this law had a constitutional basis only in Article 3(4) and point 5. It's as clear as two more two is equal to four, unless it suits someone to be five or three. On the basis of this, we should seek the constitutional basis of this law. Every law must have a constitutional basis. Whether all is done to honor this constitutional basis. In the last debate, there were several words about the need for such a law, pointing to major damages caused by BiH due to various types of corruption, crime, border controls. Whether the relevant services that exist in entities have tried to prevent these processes that are actually happening in BiH, and I am in favour of stopping and preventing these processes in BiH. I am responsibly telling you here, and many know, and not only do they know, but they support, that some peddlers enter one side of BiH into one entity, in agreement with the police of another entity being sent through the entire entity and re-entering that other entity and crossing another border. I'm asking you a question. Will such things be able to prevent the police that are envisioned by this law? If such patterns are made, amongst the entities, will now one smaller number of people who will be there for a few kilometers be able to prevent it. I'm convinced he won't be able to stop it. However the deal has been reached here, it will be easier to reach an agreement there because people will be together. But I'm not going to say that there is no need to establish a certain service that will exercise additional control. This must indeed be done in a constitutional manner, according to the BiH Constitution. Members of the RS have proposed, most MPs, to be precise, two amendments have been proposed by the RS, or two groups of amendments. These amendments proposed by the Syllabic Coalition are the minimum below which I believe none of these MPs will lift two fingers. It is the minimum according to which this law can have constitutional basis, as it will pass in RS, gain consent from the required institutions to do so. It is up to you today to decide whether we will applaud the fact that someone else will impose a law on us or we will make an additional effort to do everything we can to make a law pass here in the Assembly and to preserve the dignity and dignity of each of the MPs in the Assembly. Personally, I don't think we have even a basis to vote today, not even on amendments or on this law. Here's why. Someone initially said it was really unserious that something that has been done for half a year and always comes from the Presidency of 52 BiH, here comes the second time to the Assembly, and that neither has this BiH presidency nor has anyone on behalf of that BiH presidency to defend, to answer, perhaps this other is wrong. I don't see anyone here on behalf of a member of the RS presidency who could answer those questions. Look at the act we got, signed by Mr. Jelavić, it's just as unserious, it's a big word, but it's the easiest thing I can say at this point, as well as their relationship with this law. Why? I have another act relating to the same law, which was sent from the BiH Bureau Secretariat, which was signed by a certain Ante Grbić, I do not know and therefore I say a certain one. Look under the signature, that is, above the name Ante Grbić and his signature stands for the BiH Presidency Secretariat, and in this act that we received, on behalf of the BiH Presidency, on behalf of the Presidency of the State, nothing above the name Ante Jelavić writes. No matter what you've explained. I read what it says here. Given this and the insufficient presence of those who can respond to the amendments, I suggest that this be removed from today's debate and that the draft law on the Border Service continue at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3649	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Mr. Raguž has some explanations in front of the BiH presidency, and then Mr. Tokić comes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3650	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, the honourable representatives, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you on behalf of the chairman of the BiH Presidency, Mr. Jelavić, as president of his Office and the man who, by decision and establishment of the BiH presidency, has the mandate to replace him, therefore, is a legal decision and I am not unauthorized, I have the legality to convey his views, or the views agreed on by the BiH presidency. I will intervene here only in the sense in which the president's name of the BiH presidency was treated and taken into account, especially in one inappropriate way, by questioning the acts and signatures he sent here to this respected House. The act you spoke of, Your Honor, has the title of BiH, the BiH Presidency, the president, in Croatian, or in the language of the people of BiH, on the right hand side has an English version and, of course, has the fact that Ante Jelavić is currently chairman of the BiH presidency according to the title. Don't, please, at least keep that level of communication, with all due respect to what is the content of your discussions that I don't want to talk about at all, and I have the right to comment on them, that's your representation right. What the BiH presidency did worked for 3-4 months, the way it did, you can value it here. It, as far as I am concerned, has made an effort both here and outside of this to reach a compromise, which is what it is, whether sick or not, is not an ideal law, but it is the minimum that the BiH presidency has made. At a certain point, according to the ratio of strength, internal and external, and it is behind this proposal. It is not said that the House of Representatives or this House cannot intervene further on this law, but that is what the BiH presidency has done. The presidency has a decision on which the Bureau's acts, which it recently adopted, adopted by the presidency, were signed by the chairman while he was in office. When it is 15.02. Mr Izetbegović will also sign the acts brought by the Presidency, and then 53 Mr Radišić and then. The BiH presidency had three sessions of the Presidency on this law, there was a certain compromise and assessed in telephone consultations that every opening of the debate on the minimum that has been achieved meant to put things back behind which it cannot stand, that does not mean that it restricts anyone in any sense, however, respects the dignity of this home and each of these MPs and I ask you, in that sense, that we have one correct communication and coordination and that we respect certain things. I thank all of you and the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3651	Thank you, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3652	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, I really expected to finish every part of the work with which he was sent. Some came here to refuse the law, some to uphold the law. However, there have been some assessments, incorrect allegations that I really need to intervene on behalf of the SDP Club. It is not true that this law proposes an international community. It is proposed by the BiH presidency, in agreement with the presidency that I have heard of as one of the members of the presidency is from the political group Slogo, so I do not understand. That looks a little like an inner replica to me. Internal reconciliation among a political group. It's quite unserious. However, regardless of which, the international community, the BiH Presidency, I would like to say that our relationship with this law and supporting this law is being implemented, it is based on the fact that we proposed a similar law almost a year ago. It's not about any acceptance of someone's initiative or the international community. That's what we suggested, and then we made it clear, who has a good memory, that we suggest it for the citizens. The manipulation here today is to determine that it is the national interest and interest of citizens to adopt this law. That reminds me, I listened to these debates, to the throat debates of similar speakers how, if the license plates were adopted, the Serbian people, the citizens, I don't know, etc., they were against, that they would never accept, that, of course, was not true. Registration plates were first carried out there from those parts, where it was claimed not to be implemented, Pale, Vlasenica, Šekovići and not to list any further. That's how it was about passports, passports. Therefore, it is one manipulation, as is the manipulation that the national interest is being led to 5-6 km or 10 km. I do not want to replicate at the level whether we should reject this significant legislative project because the president writes in the upper part, and not where he imagines an esteemed colleague that should just stand in it, nor do I intend here to develop a broad debate about whose writer and writer Njegoš, it is an encyclopedic category, that it is of Montenegrin origin in all the encyclopaedias. If anyone needs to open this debate right now, I'm pulling right out of it. Let him remain an esteemed colleague in the belief that he is who he is, and he will not mind the late njegošiti, perhaps bother someone else who is watching this broadcast. I'd like to re-apply to the Rules of Procedure. We've finished the debate. As far as the replicas are concerned, as far as the relationship is concerned, we can continue the debate, I am ready for such a debate, but procedurally we have reached the level when we need to declare amendments, or the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3653	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. Mr Špirić and Mr Dokić spoke for the replica, and for the debate, and I believe that the team has circled the debate, Mr Baković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3654	Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate is coming to an end, I agree that the debate should be summed up and, of course, the law brought to a statement by the MPs, so we will see what the result of the statement will be. What is very important, for the sake of the BiH public in both its entities, said the gentleman on behalf of President Jelavić's cabinet. In a telephone debate, the BiH presidency, as well as in business, did not know, discussed the important amendments of the MPs to a legislative project, which will say that it was not ready, for the sake of probably a highly agreed stance on the law that we have to open up controversy. But the BiH public needs to know. He must know that the burden of passing such a law lies on those people who publicly say they haven't had a debate. I will not doubt what you said at all, but I have information that the debate on amendments to MPs has not been conducted at all. I am therefore surprised by the inconclusion of the cabinets of individual members of the presidency, among other things as a member of the BiH presidency from RS, Mr Živko Radišić. I said last time that the international community or OHR, when it asked for the law to be passed without amendments, had many reasons, because BiH presidency members promised to adopt such a law. Since Mr Jelavić is the president of HDZ, Mr Radišić, the president of the Socialist Party of RS, Mr Alija Izetbegović, the SDA and this Coalition, they have a parliamentary majority to adopt this law, but I want to know that we can clearly explain to the people, and to the citizens, who are behind the legal projects. Not all MPs can be subdued globally, so possibly behind the relapses of such or the ones that a single legal project carries. I mean clearly, I'm against this law as an MP and party president. I want to discuss the law, since it has been disabled, and they have made it impossible to discuss the law of the BiH presidency members, not the international community, who have promised to write their MPs down to adopt it. I just did for lying here, and that's a big word for the top state representatives, brought to light the public of BiH. It's easy for me to say in public what I am for what I'm not, argued. But so much controversy leads to the public, buying the people's souls, and here to come with such a proposal is, gentlemen, unserious. That's why I don't doubt your allegations. We can move forward according to the amendments, but I must tell you that the mood of MPs, regardless of what option, 11 MPs from the RS appear in front of eight political parties, is at a high level of consistency. I must warn you that such a law as it is will not go away because members of the BiH presidency or some members of the BiH presidency have been dishonestly promised representatives of the international community, but the international community must know who it is dealing with. No one here will say what kind of coalition we have, the ruling coalition. I'm an opposition to that coalition and I want to make my position clear, and nobody puts me in the same basket with them, and most of it exists, and I think we've lost time, because they promised that without amendment this law would be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3655	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3656	You know, sometimes when a man wants to or wants to make his thought more firm, then he calls on something and says something that's not in the context of what we're discussing, and it's a good suggestion not to replicate it. Let's rephrase the essential things that we need to vote on here. But since it's been replicated, I would ask my esteemed colleague to look for the original Mountain Wreath, written with the hand of his author, and in the opening part to read what he writes and I am finishing the discussion. It's not a replica. My replica refers to the following. As much as my colleague Ljubičić, or the MP group of the Syllabic Coalition, wrote letters in the Electoral Law, the same letters were written by the BiH Presidency and their service in the Border Service Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3657	We've got Mr. Baković, and that's the last debate we can have here, the debate is gone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3658	Comrades, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words. I can tell you that from Livna this morning from five o'clock to 300 miles, that I've watched where I'm going to lose my head, that I've crossed the Kupresk High just to do something smart here, though. I ask you that if we're going to work, let's work, let's not waste time for three hours just around setting up and hairing the agenda, etc. I think this signature of Mr Jelavić, his position, his reasoning in place and the legitimacy of this is not to be questioned. The signature's here, and I don't think it's nice, that it's not fair to hang around it all the time, etc. It does not matter at all whether this law on the Border Service was initiated by the OHR or by the BiH presidency, mainly that he is here and possibly BiH as such and necessary. We've all expressed our position to accept this, because we've all agreed to bring this into practice. So, I'm asking you now that we do this job in a correct, working, creative way, and not always to be put off there and here. I have nothing to say about this law, I will agree with my party's position, but I think we have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3659	Thank you very much, Mr. Baković. Since we have now circled the debate on this point, I have received another new proposal, a group of MPs asking to postpone the vote, which I think simply by the Rules of Procedure is not possible, it is my opinion, but, please, there are more relevant people who can say something about it and another is the proposal to vote for this law for which I... It's no secret, here are the names that were delivered to me here, that's Špirić, Dokić, Rađević, I don't know if anyone else is there, that's what we'll clearly say by voting. Therefore, Špirić, Dokić, Rađević, here I have so. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3660	My position was clear to discuss the law and every MP said what he thought and to approach the plea. The second thing is that Nikola Špirić warned of the possible fate of the law after the vote. My position is very clear. Don't put me there. I beg the service when it delivers, at least to consult me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3661	I asked the law to return to the beginning of the procedure and find a constitutional basis and on that, I did not propose to postpone the vote. [[Speaks from place/]] I apologize on behalf of those who told me. We have two suggestions. Please, we'll approach the vote, we've got two completely conflicting proposals here. One is for the law to return to the BiH presidency to comply with the amendments and another is the proposal for us to plead here for the law the BiH presidency gave.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3663	Who made the suggestion? Mr Špirić argues that he is interpreted by the law and Mrs Rađević. If not, please be sure to correct. Please don't enter the dialogue. We'll make a suggestion. I propose that we vote in favour of Mr. Rakić's amendments or against the amendments, or for or against Mr. Mirko Banjac's amendments, and then we will declare the law as such. I think this is a correct suggestion. We have a proposition. Who's in favor of Mr. Mirko Banjac's amendment being adopted? I propose that in the group we decide on the amendments Mr Mirko Banjac submitted to the BiH presidency. I think that's quite possible. Who is it for these amendments to be adopted and the law to return to the BiH presidency to be in line with these amendments to Mirko Banjac? Who's in? We have five votes. Unfortunately, that didn't go through the first round of voting either. Any objections to the vote?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3666	Here, we have six votes. We have another proposal that the amendments signed here by Mr Rakić and, on behalf of the Sloba klub, accept and that they are given the same way, i.e. to return to the BiH presidency procedure. Here, I'm correcting myself. Who is to adopt these amendments, proposed by the Slog Club, and become an integral part of the Bill on State Service. Who's in? We have six. Who's against it? Everyone else is against it. We're finding that this proposal didn't go through either. We are now going to make a statement on the draft law given by the BiH presidency. Who's in? 21. Who's against it? From 29. We have a majority here. We're going to vote on the entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? 19. Thank you very much. We've got most of it. Who's against it? Who's from RS for? We have 2. So this bill didn't get the entity majority, it just, it got most of it, but it didn't get the entity majority. He's going for a match. This one's gonna be in front of New Year's Eve again on the agenda, there's about 10. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ad.3. We have a report on the public debate and a statement on the draft electoral law of Drago Ljubičić and the Law of the SDP Club Here we have a proposal to remove this item from the agenda, according to what we have already discussed. We will have a second proposal, which is for it to be placed on the agenda, or to remain on the agenda as it has already been adopted? Who is for this item to be removed from the agenda, or postponed until the next session that will be behind the New Year's Eve?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3667	You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3668	OK, Mr. Špirić. Please, let us simply confirm that with our hands. 29 present. Come on, please, raise your hand one more time, 'cause the gentlemen haven't been able to count the votes. 19's in. I think it's most of the people present. Who's against this proposal? Against 5 MPs, or MPs against. Are there any abstentions here? The others are restrained. This third point, according to this agenda, has been downloaded today, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3669	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to comment on this statement from the House of Representatives. In fact, I'd like to say that the bill promoter is not required at the session when discussing the draft law, as is the case today. Secondly, this House of Representatives has established the Work Programme and in particular with regard to the adoption of this, that is, the Election Law, and we have two proposals and we will be significantly delayed by the procedure of adopting the BiH Election Law. 58 Third, out of all the media, very expensively paid in BiH, the OSCE places a heavy burden of responsibility on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for the delay, i.e. failure to adopt this law. I must say that I am surprised by the letter from OHR or the OSCE which requires the prolonging of a statement regarding this law, although all responsibility for the adoption of this law is concentrated solely on the House of Representatives, i.e. on the BiH Parliament and finally I want to say that this prolonging of the plea reduces the responsibility of this House of Representatives in relation to possible delays and the OHR, or the OSCE, I am not sure who sent the letter, assumes additional responsibility for the consequences that will take place after the PSBiH House of Representatives does not take advantage of the time to plead with this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3670	Thank you, Mr. Kadić. I don't think the debate on this should be opened. We voted and therefore the debate is...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3671	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do apologize, but I believe this is such a significant political issue present in the public and that the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not remain in the dilemma. This high house, namely, voted to remove this item from the agenda because of the following explanation "As far as the new electoral law is concerned, given the current circumstances, we propose that the debate be postponed by the beginning of January." This is an explanation, signed by Roman Plevak, which was a commitment. Of course, for me, there will be an enigma of what the current circumstances are. I will certainly try, seek, provide an explanation of this mysterious sentence "current circumstances". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3672	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. I believe that the debate on this further should not be led, because we have come to the vote, so I believe that we have gained the conditions that we can move to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. Proposal for an organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat I am opening the debate. This is about the proposal you received and agreed on by the College and the Secretariat. Here, I'm getting here, you didn't get more than just the OHR's exact information about this secretariat, or this proposal. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3673	Ladies and gentlemen, I will draw attention to some things that are not rare in the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, especially in the work of its commissions. I am, of course, a member of the Administrative Commission who has made a lot of efforts, of course, with the help of representatives of the international community, the OHR Office, to come to the agreed text of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. Since we are in no condition to have a stenogram of debate, then we are very often in a situation, when we get the record that I have in a strange way, to lead the controversy of whether or not someone noticed whether or not we were even making a statement about the proposal. But there is one good thing, that representatives of the international community and the OHR were present at our agreement and I draw your attention to the letter of Ambassador Maatei Hofman, who regrets that OHR representatives and the international community were not invited to continue the session of the Administrative Commission in which it happened. It is true that, according to the international community gentlemen, that we agreed, and unanimously, we came to the conclusion, but, behold, some strange round-the-clock meetings, some of the talks that do not reflect the situation with the Commission, came to a proposal in the last paragraph on page 5, saying: “The secretary of the joint services appoints the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, on the proposal of the administrative committees of both homes. The Home Secretary shall appoint the appropriate House of the Parliamentary Assembly on the proposal of the Administrative Commission of the House. The secretary of the commission will appoint the appropriate administrative committees of homes" etc. In this way, the appointments of the secretary of the House of Representatives and the secretary of the People's House are the highest officials of BiH, people who need to do professional work. Do you know what it means to appoint the secretary of the joint services the House of Peoples and the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is a political weight. Representatives of the international community have suggested to us, and we have accepted that the secretary of the PSBiH House of Representatives appointed the College of the House of Peoples, that the secretary of the House of Peoples, and that the secretary of the joint services of both colleges, which is quite logical, because it is about people who will professionally observe the work of the Representative Council and the House of Peoples. For what reasons did the record reflect something we did not agree on, let those who participated in the creation of the minutes from the Administrative Commission ask. I was then, not knowing about this letter from the international community, even insisting until then that we change the secretary who serves the commission's work. Because the secretary didn't make the record himself, but he dictated to me the names with which he, about, did what we talked about on that Administrative Commission, which is not good. In that sense, I support this letter from Mr. Ambassador. This time I am grateful to the people of the international community, who have made it clear and loud to us what we have agreed and I suggest that this decision on the organisation be adopted with this amendment, which we have also agreed. Someone, not knowing about this letter, changed, but, look, I'm asking for the situation to start again. So, to name the secretaries the College, not the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3674	Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3675	This is kind of a replica. The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, the Administrative Commission has discussed this. The conclusion of the Administrative Commission, which we agreed on in principle, was to write to the College that 60 The Administrative Commission considered all possibilities and put the College on the right to adopt one of those three options. Mr. Ambassador from OHR was present and he did propose what Mr. Špirić said. However, we agreed and agreed, there was no vote. We agreed and agreed to send to the Kolegijum everything we discussed. That's what we talked about at the last session of the Administrative Commission and I don't think there's a problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3676	Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3677	I'm asking my colleague Mustafa, with whom I have to admit, I'm working well, there's no problem, we can have different opinions. But, I mean, the practice that we care about in the commission's work is not a practice of building trust if something we agree to get in another form in the record, regardless, Mr. Pamuk, who's behind it. It says right here. As for the appointment of these officials, I would strongly advise you to return to the solutions agreed last week. I ask you, I asked for it to be brought because it was called to the Official Messenger, the Law on State Administration, which Mr. Vedran Hadžović also brought by representatives of the international community and the OHR said, you know, it cannot be applied. Make a more modern solution. So I'm against it. If we can't run a stenogram, since this is a practice that is being nurtured on the Constitutional Commission and on the Administrative Commission that I will avoid working on committees every time, unless a stenogram is conducted. I don't think it really makes sense that we remember whether we voted or not. I have assured you that we have unanimously declared this proposal. Now that the letter of the international community has come, they can do this, they can do this. People suggest a rational solution that is outside political waters, which is on the line for professional people to observe both homes and every normal person will accept it. Why can't people see it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3678	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I think we should discuss essentially. The Administrative Commission has discussed this decision several times on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, and we have managed to say, in part and by revote sometimes, to bring this text into line that you have received. The fact is that this question that we received from Ambassador Hofman was in the debate, and I am not going to talk about the Commission's session, but only to remind you, when we gave you, the previous debate on this decision, I have here in the Official Journal published, we have concluded that at the proposal of the Secretariat of the College of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Nations, in consultation with the working committees on administrative matters of both homes, within 30 days, we have skipped that deadline, to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the adoption of the proposal of the Secretariat and to prepare the acts that I do not read further. So this is what the College suggested. No matter what debate was held on the Administrative Commission and what the Commission suggested to the College. The college is suggested these opinions. You have on the other hand, I have the Commission's opinion. On the other hand, there are three opinions that 61 of us have talked about, and now I'm going to say what is the essential question. The key question is whether this home appoints secretaries or calls them the College. Let someone from the Constitutional Commission, or the Secretariat, answer whether the College is a body that can appoint secretaries. The college does not exist organisationally, it is established by the Rules of Procedure and the essence is whether the gentlemen of the international community, from the OHR, have suggested to us, that it would be better to be a College as it says here. However, we opened this issue, and because we couldn't answer that question, we passed laws, etc., it was put to the College to define it, meaning that this was discussed and determined whether it was possible for it to appoint secretaries. The question arises, it is a business body, not a body elected by this parliament. We, as MPs, if we want to give it to the College, and if it's going to be in accordance with the law, I don't mind doing this the way they suggested from the OHR. The point was, not whether someone was good at keeping the record or not. The college was supposed to look into it, and he stayed on for an earlier settlement. Now, it would be good for you to state why you stayed in early resolution or accept this other solution, or possibly the Constitutional Commission tells us if it's okay and we can make this decision. I would ask that we do it today, because this is a terrible long time ahead, and we need the service.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3679	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muminagić. The position of the College will explain, as chairman, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3680	Very briefly, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, is not at all a fundamental difference whether the House of Representatives or whether the College will appoint secretaries and is not there, indeed, the essence of the issues, such as, indeed, it is not the essence of the question of how many moments and fragments of the debate have entered the minutes with some committees. We, as a College, agreed to this proposal and gave it to the Administrative Commission for their consideration and possibly their assessment. It was such a suggestion that the Secretaries were appointed as the College, as you can see, that we, however, opted to do so at home. Why? The College, indeed, was not appointed by the body, chosen with some kind of ingenuity, but was indeed a business group composed of three chairpersons and vice-presidents, each selected separately and individually. We don't have, like the College, so far, we haven't made any decisions, and it seems to me that as a College, there's no possibility of making decisions. The College shall have the opportunity to agree on what it has agreed to propose to the House of Representatives on the agenda. We as a College generally propose to the House of Representatives and do not make decisions. Remaining still in the assessment that the essence is not the greatest weight in whether the House of Representatives or the College or the Homes will appoint secretaries, I suggest, for these reasons, that we define ourselves for this solution that the homes name the secretaries and that is our position that we in the College have agreed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3681	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a second vision of a third member of the College and therefore I would ask the Administrative Commission to gain its weight. If the opinion of the Administrative Commission, 62 where the Presidency or the College has understood so, I think that the concept and position of the Administrative Commission is meaningless, but it is very important that we have made it clear that the Secretaries are elected by the College, not by their homes, that such a decision has gone towards the Presidency rather than four alternatives. We have come to this decision. I have information from Mr. Banjac that he didn't get that information in college. I'm asking you once to talk about the same things and you can't see anyone differently if you have other information. If you had the information, I ask you, that the Commission thinks and has unanimously spoken with the suggestion of the representatives of the international community, that it is good for the College to appoint, I ask you what decision it would be. I'm against the secretaries being political faces. Once you have to get into the professional work of this service. Well, you might think the Secretaries of the Joint Service are choosing two homes. What kind of political weight is that? How do you replace this man in a two-year term, knowing the fate of our relations within this council and the House of Peoples? Why do we insist on that, and we tell people and citizens that we care about getting out of a stalemate, that professional people observe the work. Please find me somewhere in the world in the parliamentary assembly to have the secretary of the joint services name two homes, I'll hang myself publicly. Why do we want impossible solutions to BiH? We're talking about wanting to be legal, democratic, normal, European, etc. Where these agreements are made I am interested, and therefore I am against the counterfeiting of the Commission's reports, among other things. Don't, Vedrane, disrespect. You took part in the writing of the record, and you have no right to do that. Don't drag me by my tongue to tell you everything in public.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3682	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, as far as the Secretariat's election is concerned, it is perfectly normal, logical and justifiable that this is done by the College, not the Assembly, home or other home, it is not political but professional persons, and it is their primary task to serve the College and all of us together in the home. I fully agree with the suggestions that this is chosen in such a way as not by choosing, by a parliamentary vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3683	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here, I would say, there are two positions. First of all, one view that secretaries should be professional executive workers, and hence a body, according to that logic, should appoint, and another view that secretaries are, practically, officials and then a wider body, possibly homes should name them. However, whether secretaries are officials or professional executive workers, it is defined there, however, that they are in a certain way and officials. I am in favour of the College doing only what it is under the Interim Rules of Procedure its obligation. I respect and respect the suggestion that came from the OHR Office to do so by the College. I suppose the OHR gentlemen had in mind possible operationality, thinking that the College would do it more operationally and more quickly, etc. But homes, even though this has not been shown in practice so far, usually the College does not agree on what we do not agree on. The essence of my position is, I repeat, that the College, therefore, remains within its sole jurisdiction, 63 defined in the Interim Rules of Procedure, which is in force. In this Interim Rules of Procedure, he doesn't have that authority, as far as I know, and we can look at it again, he has no authority to appoint secretaries, and that's why I'm absolutely for the secretaries to be named at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3684	According to this previous colleague, however, our new Rules of Procedure are in the process and I hope that such a thing will be installed in the Rules of Procedure. It is not logical that the sekretarijat, which will serve most the people of the Professional College, will be appointed in another way, that this Secretariat is not influenced by the College. The Secretariat is nothing but an executive body of the College of Experts and the Assembly. Therefore, it makes no sense to me that the choice of such people, or the appointment of such people, comes from the other side. The professional college itself is a representative sample of the Assembly, a congregation body.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3685	He already has a request for a break. I suggest, we have more Mr. Hadžović, Mr. Tokić and Mr. Pamuk. We suggest that we briefly round up these discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3686	I would like to say that the Interim Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been doing this text of the Decision and has proposed it to the College and the Administrative Commissions. I would ask you, since we made a decision in May on the establishment of the Interim Secretariat, that this provisionality be finally completed and that this decision be taken on the organisation of the Secretariat and set up the Secretariat as you consider necessary. As for this memo we received from OHR, I would refer to the second element of this letter. It's a professional, professional team that will work here in the Secretariat. It is very important, in doing so, Mr Hofman insists that the decision does not provide for a mandate for elected and appointed officials, therefore, that they should be indefinitely, with the obligation to work in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the Rules of Procedure, and all acts of both homes, but not limited to the mandate and not to be re-elected. I think it will strengthen the position of the Secretariat in a professional sense and in fulfilling its obligations. As far as the appointment is concerned, it's up to you to decide. There are arguments both for and against. We attended a session of the Administrative Commission. I must say, I was merely giving my opinions and my own personal opinions and opinions to the Secretariat. I wasn't involved in making a record, and it's really not my job. I can say that now according to the State Administration Act, officials who operate the administration's authorities are appointed by the authorities whose secretaries they are. Such solutions are also in the entity assemblies and in RS, the RS-led secretary is the situation in the Federation of BiH. However, in the OHR's view, this appointment should be carried out by the College and you will, of course, make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3687	Madam Chairman, I ask you to continue to keep an eye on who may be behind this pay phone to address and participate in the debate. The administrative commission has its own secretary. Vedran isn't an absolute interpreter, at least I don't understand him that way, unless he didn't, even what Mr. Hofman thought, and he didn't write. I have even been told that I have been talking to representatives of the international community since May. I wrote to a representative of the international community why don't you want to talk to me? Why am I not invited as a member of the Commission? Who has the right to deceive us and the international community? Vedrane, you've got only you, and you can't be long, and I won't let that happen while I'm sitting on the Commission. I asked that the secretary who serves the shift because of the fact that he and Vedran were building a record, not with me or with us who are members of the Commission and this Assembly must enter the normal course of work, Mr Vedrane, if the citizens of BiH expect us to pass laws, and therefore I ask you from the presidency, if Vedran is your boss, I must publicly say that he is not me. Thank you very much. And the more the influence of Vedran is felt in other committees that I am against, and for that, it seems, it would take two homes to elect a secretary of joint services. What are we hiding? Why are we hiding it, and I'm against it, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3688	I'll try to stick to that folk every unspeakable gold is worth it, so I'll be as short as possible, but I'll have to do some cynicism in the last sentence. I think we're having an unnecessary discussion. We have, as I understand it, a unanimous proposal from the Administrative Commission to resolve this issue. I really find it absurd that the Assembly chooses the secretaries or any other officials of the committee, I really find it absurd. I can understand some MPs, they probably feel guilty that we MPs don't bring anything here, so let's at least pick a secretary and that's the line.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3689	Dear gentlemen, here in the discussions you are calling and calling for help the Journal of the Administrative Commission. But I don't think we should discuss him at this point and here. The Administrative Commission gave its opinion. A college that proposes this law or the Administrative Commission has been asked to take an opinion, and when it comes to this point, I will only consider what is contentious to read. Since she had no unique position, the Commission considers that the College should consider the way in which the secretary was appointed. That is what the following opinions are about. 1. To stay as proposed in Draft 2. That the Secretary of the House is elected by the College of the House, and the Secretary of the Joint Service of both colleges 3. That the board on Administrative Affairs appointed the secretaries. That was the proposal of the Administrative Commission. This proposal was also discussed at the last session of the Administrative Commission and all colleagues from the Administrative Commission knew that this was the position of the Administrative Commission and we all read it. In the meantime, OHR's opinion came and we discussed OHR's opinion, but we didn't vote on it, the Commission had this position, and since the College, in fact, is the one who brings the proposal to the Assembly, we gave our opinion and I don't see what 65 is controversial. Thus, the College has the right to form its position and bring it out to this home on the basis of all the opinions collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3690	kolega. Pamuk, President of the Administrative Commission, has now shown also the passages of the minutes, i.e. a letter notifying the College of the work of the Administrative Commission, and this item of the agenda, claiming that all the members of the Administrative Commission are behind the letter. I have to say, not everyone's behind that memo. As I recall, on the OHR's proposal, this was discussed on the Commission, and we voted that the College should choose. However, there was another problem. One of the members said, I think Mrs. Suada, which nobody mentions here, which is that in the Interim Rules of Procedure there are no categories of colleges and what he is and how he can do, and then we agreed that since he is also on the agenda of the Permanent Rules of Procedure to classify that category, because it really exists and works and no one can show that it does not exist. If it is already, here, I don't know how long we've been discussing how the Commission has informed the College, I am at the point that the Commission has misinformed the College of what we have agreed and done on this agenda point. However, other members of the Administrative Commission can think differently and feel, there is no stenogram and, simply, anyone who seems to be, will say so. However, I would like to interrupt the debate on how the Administrative Commission has informed the College of this and we are going specifically after this break with a proposal to take place on page 5. The proposal on the organisation of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH under IV, the last paragraph, and, therefore, instead of what it says here, we suggest that it stands to appoint the Secretaries to the College of the One Home, the College of the Other Home, on the proposal of the administrative committees of those homes, and the Secretary of the Parliamentary Assembly of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the proposal of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Now we have two proposals, this one that's in the text and this one that I'm, here, specifically proposing, and the predecessors have advocated.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3691	Since colleague Rađević called for me and for the interpretation. I must say, I didn't interpret on the Commission that there is no College. There is a College in the Rules of Procedure, but I said that I do not know if it is within the jurisdiction of the College to appoint the secretaries of the home and secretary of the joint services and now I say again, please take the Rules of Procedure, if we want to give it to the Kolegijum, then let the lawyers tell them how we should do so and give it to him in charge and then we declare this proposal. As long as there is this Rules of Procedure, we need to work on it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3692	Now, Mrs. Ana Havel, and that's what we think the discussion is over and we're going to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3693	The esteemed MPs, in addition to what has been said so far, I would like to raise another question on which there has been a talk on the Administrative Commission, but we have not agreed and this has not entered into the proposal here. In fact, there have been talks about rotating in the domain of this secretariat, between these three secretaries, not to repeat, meaning Secretary of the House of Representatives, 66 House of Peoples and Joint Services. There have been certain objections to this. It was a question of how to do it and see that it wasn't adopted here. I have a proposal to take that into account, not entering the scope of the work these three secretaries will do. Just handling the secretariat to rotate as they rotate the chairman of the homes. I would add, however, that we should, in the end, change this very decision. It cannot be the basis for a decision on the establishment of the Interim Secretariat. Thank you. At the request of Mr Špirić, we give a half-hour break. Please make it half an hour. We have a quorum, and we said the break takes half an hour. We've given you five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3695	I suggest we get back to work. Mr. Špirić, explain the break you asked for. We continue to discuss point 4. Please come in. I give you my word. Is anyone answering for a discussion any further? There's no one here. Then can we conclude the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3696	Ladies and gentlemen, we've lost a lot of time around this agenda point. In one discussion that's been going around a lot, we have the Interim Secretariat, we have a decision to appoint the Interim Secretariat, and I guess it's time to have a Permanent Secretariat. Therefore, I would like to try to propose a compromise on this and try to make that decision today. That compromise would be in the next one. The secretary, all three secretaries, now without listing, will be appointed by the College, the College will inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the appointment, i.e. where the individual council will confirm this appointment and I would agree with this mandate by Mr Deretić, who has given these three secretaries the mandate of how long the term of office of MPs is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3697	Here, I'll just, colleagues, be free to say about this article 1 because I assume you've all got this proposal. The decision contains, by the way, a limitation of mandate. Why did I insist on going with this amendment? For the simple reason the OHR has a different opinion, and we've heard different thoughts here, in the sense that people who are professionals do their jobs, do these jobs indefinitely. So, through this amendment, I have actually supported, or advocated, that this time period be limited to Article 2, in fact, here I also suggested, how to choose the secretary of the joint services and the secretary of one and the other council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3698	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish I could understand Mr. Vita Rakić's suggestion. I really wish I could get into the essence of that proposal and figure it out. What does it mean to appoint a College and confirm the Representative Council or the House of Peoples? I just can't, I respect when a man sets himself up for one or the other. You can think of one of the BiH voters behind whom the Council of Representatives and the Council of Peoples stands, a man above 67 co-chaired by political weight. Above the Prime Minister. So are there any MPs I need to convince. Here, co-chairman, on a proposal from the BiH Presidency, we have confirmed it, but it is not the House of Peoples. Now we're going to get a head of professional services to choose both homes. I am in favour of the College, as proposed, as OHR supported or suggested, without these inter-mixes and compromises, Mr. Radić. It is not a compromise, but a further twisting of the situation in clear decision-making. If someone needs to be a professional person, then he's professionally observing this work, what kind of confirmation. It's chosen by people, notified to the Assembly, and a man does his job. It looks like we're going to have so many chosen assistants, deputies, like this and like that that it looks like the economy is going to run out of workers in production until everyone gets their deputy and assistant. Looks like the hardware worker's gonna need to confirm both homes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3699	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3700	In short, why I support both amendments signed by Mr Deretić. The reason can be said in one sentence. The most responsible people for the functioning and functioning of the Assembly, and we often point out, are the chairman. Thus, how many services will function, or how well the congregation will function, depends on the ministry. In this context, we must be open enough and trust enough for those who get most votes, to handle the congregation to choose their own services. The insistence that the Assembly chooses a secretary is, in fact, merely giving meaning to our services. See also a little by entities, and also at BiH level, how many significant functions there are, incomparably more significant than the secretary of the Assembly, and neither confirms them nor appoints them an entity assembly or a BiH Assembly. On the other hand, and a two-year term. Those people who are, or four years when they are, when the term of office is four years, the presidency will choose those people with whom they can co-operate, who can call, and they will all answer to us here. If they don't work properly, we'll call them and look for them through the presidency and their shifts.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3701	Mrs. Muminagić, meanwhile, by the time Mrs. Muminagić arrives, I have an apology. Because of the flood, MP Hilmo Neimarlija apologizes for not attending this session. I believe he has these objective problems about it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3702	As for the continuation of the session and the amendments that we have received, I think the College should first consider the amendments because it is the proposer of this decision. Since we started discussing the amendments, I would return to the beginning, the reason for this debate is the letter of Mr. Ambassador Hofman. In his letter, he suggested two things, related to this decision. One is who appoints the secretaries of the home and secretary of the joint services, and the other is the restriction of the mandate. If we are already talking about not having to give such importance to the secretaries of the home and the secretaries of the joint services, and as far as the mandate is concerned, the secretaries of the commission are involved, then if we are going to go to this resolution that they should not be given such importance that they are appointed by the homes, then we should not even restrict the mandate. So that's one 68 possibility, one solution to go to is that it's professionals and professional services that work here and which the College appoints, and we have to give the College the authority to do so. My point is, the College doesn't have that in its jurisdiction. This home has to come to a conclusion or something that gives them a new Rules of Procedure that we're going to install it in, but then we'd have to carry out that convention to the end, if it doesn't matter to them, then it's people who choose to compete and then we wouldn't go this second part, or the first amendment. Why am I saying this? I mean, if we want to change our usual practice so far, that the secretaries and under that State Administration Act are appointed by a body that they will serve and bind to the mandate of that body, then change it as a whole. So I couldn't accept this first amendment from that point of view, because it was only part of Mr. Hofman's suggestion. I think he should make a statement about it first to the College, so let's vote on it. Otherwise, as far as the SDP is concerned, we can support the earlier proposal of the College, unless the College is restoring on this amendment. This amendment 1 is somewhat more rigorous in this position, because the decision says that the duration of the term of office of officials, executive workers, would be equal to the duration of the term of office of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and would be subject to re-election. There is no such thing in this amendment, so these people have finished their work with the Assembly's mandate. We discussed it several times on the Commission and stayed in the re-election, so that these people can be re-elected, only being checked by the new assembly. I wouldn't accept this first amendment from that point of view either, because he thinks we should leave the possibility of re-election. First, I ask that the College be made aware of the amendments, so that we can determine why we will vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3703	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3704	I support these amendments and I'll explain it with that. If the College appoints secretaries, it's normal for the next college to enter the scene, it has the same right. According to this explanation so far, it would turn out that only the first college to appoint secretaries would have the right to do so. So every college that comes next in its term has the same right to have a service around it that has full confidence and will work best with and, after all, the College is ours. He cannot answer to us and cannot guarantee us and cannot guarantee the good performance of his dealings if he does not have a good service around him. I'm going to try to do the hardest part of the job, and that's paraphrasing what's been brought out here in these discussions. We have Mr. Deretić's amendment proposals. We have Mr. Špirić. Do you agree with these amendments submitted by Mr Deretić?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3706	I think it makes sense to give up Amendment One and then to go to Amendment 2 because he's basically... Okay. I have to ask Mr. Deretić if it's possible. 69
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3709	I'll make a suggestion. This job was really done with a big degree of closure. I think it's a matter of some nuance and that we finally have the Secretariat. I guess we'll be talking about next session sometime on January 10th or 11th. Would it be possible to leave it to the College to hold a meeting, a session, between today's session and to postpone this issue. I'm saying this for reasons we don't have a third college. We usually talk in a way to reach consensus in the College to agree. My proposal would be to postpone this issue for a session that will be held around January 11th, and until then the College will finally resolve the issue.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3710	Mrs. Muminagić, do you agree with this proposal? You agree. Well, then, practically, let's make this go away. So this point, all that's said to be summed up, is to make a proposal at the next session. This point is, since this is the conclusion, I believe that here we must confirm it by voting, or by raising our hands. For prolonging the decision on the agenda point, after the College has made its point of view on this. Thank you very much. Then we can move on to the next point. Ad.5. Information on the laws declared by the High Representative on temporary grounds continues to be carried out by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly You have all received information on this point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3711	The esteemed Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, in point 5(c) of the analytical information activity, within the Programme of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives for the period of November-December 1999, it is mentioned that information on the laws adopted by the High Representative on provisional grounds will imply the introduction of a law adopted by the High Representative, that the causes of his non-admission will be mentioned in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and under 3. that the practice of further activity will be established. When we analyze the information that we've been given, we can see that the laws are right here. As regards the reference to the cause of their non-adoptment in the parliamentary procedure, it is obvious that the essential causes here are not mentioned, because it only says that the laws were not adopted, given that they did not receive the necessary majority of the vote, that is, the tautology, that is to say in itself, is not indicated, through the whole debate, political views, political opinions, or those essential, political, political reasons why all of these four laws, which have been provisionally declared, did not get the necessary majority for the laws to be adopted at the level of this home. As regards the third element, the determination, confirmation of the direction of further activity, it is also not mentioned in the above information, although this body is measured to make appropriate proposals. I would therefore propose that the College, or members of the PSBiH House of Representatives, be consulted as soon as possible, or that the necessary consultations be carried out with the representatives of the clubs, or political parties that are participating in this House, and that it be established whether there is an appropriate political will on the basis of which the debate could be accessed, i.e. the adoption of these laws at the level of the PSBiH House of Representatives. If these political wills are found to be missing, I think it is entirely irrelevant and unnecessary that these laws come back on the agenda, since we have very much other material, whose practical and political repercusions to the overall life in BiH have not yet come to life. We have these laws at least on temporary grounds. It would therefore be useful not to hold any discussion without coming to the necessary political will, or to put these laws on the agenda of the Assembly, and I think that in consultations at the level of the Colleges of Representatives of Political Parties, this can be measured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3712	And based on what Mr. Jahić said at the beginning of his discussion, I will try to propose a concrete proposal. To task the Kolegijum with its services to prepare these laws for one of the next sessions, and no later than the end of the first quarter of 2000, in order to highlight what was agreed and to stress why each individual law did not receive the required majority. I hope that this will be sufficient ground for a quality debate to overcome, if possible, the differences that existed at the time, and that is the way that we can get to those laws as quickly as possible, of course, adopted here in the Assembly. I think any further discussion today would just take up unnecessary time, and that's why I suggest we vote here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3713	Thank you very much, Mr. Dokić. We have a proposal here. Is there anyone else to discuss? There isn't. Mr. Dokić gave us this proposal that we must state and I am putting in place his proposal that you have heard freshly that I am not interpreting him and that I am not being incorrect. Who's up for Mr. Dokić's proposal? Who's in? 20. Come on, please, let's see how presently it is now. 28. So we do, this proposal has passed. This conclusion of Mr. Dokić was accepted and I ask the Secretariat to take care of his realization later. That concludes the fifth item of the agenda and we move on to the sixth point. Ad.6. Giving consent to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and EUROFIM, I read this, the European Railway Park Funding Company You have the text of the agreement in your materials. I'm opening a discussion on this point. 71
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3714	We were given the presidency to deliver an agreement in English and official languages in BiH. I've been going through all these papers, and I have to say that we just got an English version of the Agreement. In our languages we never got one, and I don't think it's right for the House to plead if it can't look at an agreement in the language we speak. They have all other decisions made by the BiH Council of Ministers on taking commitments under the agreement, taking commitments from the RS, taking over the Federation of BiH. However, the basic act of the agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and EUROFIM we do not have, we only have in English.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3715	Thank you, Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3716	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a technical mistake. The agreement was delivered in all languages, and I am really surprised why the MPs were not distributed as it was done, it was even available to the BiH Council of Ministers in all three languages and English and all the other necessary contributions had that material. I would ask from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat to see where the problem has arisen.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3717	I'm asking someone outside the secretariat to explain this problem. Mr. Hadžović, I have information that all MPs have received texts in their own languages.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3718	I think there has been some technical error, all MPs have been delivered the Agreement in the language for which the MPs have defined themselves and you have the full text of the Agreement. I don't know what's wrong with the other MPs. Letter received on 2.12.99. the years with the complete text of the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3719	Thank you very much. Mrs. Muminagić, I think an apology is sufficient reason to apologize to you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3720	I didn't win.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3721	If you didn't get it, OK, but I think, if the others did, that's one little slip that we're hoping will be corrected and we're still doing this point, so I'm asking for further discussion. Is there anyone else to report on this agenda point? There's no one here. I'm thanking you. I hope I didn't get over this too fast. Who is in favour of adopting this item of the agenda, i.e. to adopt this agreement? Who's in? Twenty-six for you. How much is present? 28. Who's against it? It's nobody. Two of them are abstentions. Okay. I believe that we have absorbed the seventh item of the agenda. Ad.8. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH chief auditor, I'm sorry. Ad.7. A response from the Central Bank of BiH to the conclusions of the PSBiH House of Representatives Do we have here a representative of the Central Bank of BiH? Texts about that you got. Based on them, I think we can have a further discussion. Just one piece of information. The central bank has been notified, and there have been promises that someone will be here, but unfortunately, no one has shown up by this hour.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3722	I will remind you that at the 11th session of this house held on 26 October, we adopted two conclusions on the debate on the earlier response of the Central Bank of BiH. The first liquidators of the National Bank were asked to provide information on the reasons why the National Bank was unable to provide sufficient amount of monetary assets, as well as what led to and by whose decisions. The second conclusion required BiH's competent institutions to provide information to this parliament that it is covered by an uncovered part of the monetary passport, from which sources and by whose decisions. To date, we have not received any information requested regarding our findings. The college proposed for the agenda of this session a new, partially modified response from the Central Bank of BiH. I'll tell you what we got in that new answer, different from what we had last time. With a new response, the Central Bank of BiH explains and corrects the amount of uncovered deposits from 79.4 million converting marks to 39.8 million KM, for which the National Bank was unable to transfer foreign funds to the Central Bank of BiH. As the causes of this gapa, the BiH Central Bank quoted him as saying. 1st loans from the National Bank in 1992 to 1996 were granted to the Government of the Republic of BiH, which amounted to 37.3 million KM at the time of the liquidation of the National Bank. It means that they were not returned until then; 2nd deposits planned at Promdej Banka Zagreb, late 1997, of which the unsettled amount is currently 13.7 million KM, and the process of liquidation of Promdej Banka was launched. 3. The central bank also states that part of these non-refunds is covered by the rest of the active National Bank; 4 that the remaining part of this gapa is 39.8 million, according to a fixed payment plan, gradually covered by the assets of Canton and the public undertakings that used bh. A dinar as your currency, so it was finally covered in August this year. 73 I listed this because I want to establish that this response is only partially responsible for our conclusions, although we did not ask the Central Bank of BiH, it estimated that it should explain its earlier response a little better. We now know that the basic reasons why the National Bank of BiH was unable to provide a sufficient amount of monetary activity, loans amounting to 39.8 million KM that this bank, the National Bank, gave to the government of RBiH in the period of '92. Until '96. years and deposits placed at Promdej Banka in Zagreb. As for unsettled deposits at the Promdeus Bank, a court case is under way, and we will likely get answers from it as they came into existence. However, we still don't have the answers as to how the government of RBiH's mandate took place at the National Bank. Who approved the loans? Who made the decisions on loans and for which purposes were they directed? Therefore, the SDP MPs' club, based on this information that I have been talking about, is asking that this home specify its earlier conclusions in the following way. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives asks BiH authorities for information on the following: 1. How did BiH's responsibility to the National Bank arise? Which body made the decisions on debt as well as who in the National Bank approved these loans, in what amount and under what conditions? 2. Were these loans included in the budget revenues in a year or a year? 3. For what purposes have these loans been used and according to whose decisions? 4. Has the spending control of these funds been achieved and what has it shown? 5. To whom, at the end of the work of the government of BiH, is the obligation to repay these loans or loans transferred? At the BiH Central Bank, they say they are loans, and I know from my practice that these are usually loans. Six. What authority has adopted a plan to pay off uncovered deposits in the National Bank of BiH and by what criteria? I would ask, in front of the Members' Club, that the PSBiH House of Representatives be made known about this supplement or the replacement of our earlier conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3723	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muminagić, I expect you to take it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3724	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Central Bank of BiH in this updated information, from the point of view of the role and position of the Central Bank of BiH, gave a clear answer, as the Central Bank of BiH could. In this response, she stressed that the Central Bank of BiH is not a legal follower of the National Bank of BiH, pointed to a part of the financial gupa that appeared in the acquisition of deposits or part of the deposits of the National Bank of BiH, warned of part of the uncovered deposits that failed to enter the central bank of BiH, while taking into account the principle of currency board, which was established as the principle of functioning of the Central Bank of BiH. There is one address, when this report is read, 74 which should be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative council for some clearer information, and on page 3 it says: “The BiH presidency required the liquidator of the National Bank of BiH when he appointed it '98. the year," so the BiH presidency appointed the liquidator to try to ensure that the costs of filling any gapa in the National Bank of BiH are borne by existing institutions that most closely correspond to the former government, which took out a loan from the National Bank of BiH, thus causing a significant part of the financial gap, or a significant part of the gapa. So my proposal, as MPs, is to ask the BiH presidency for decadent information on the financial gapo, related to the liquidation of the National Bank of BiH. This could be the real address that should be addressed here, and with this, I think the Central Bank of BiH has passed its report on very correctly to the MPs. I ask that MPs be made aware of this proposal to ask the BiH presidency to provide us with information, whether there were crimes in the process of liquidating the National Bank of BiH in terms of approving various loans that the Central Bank of BiH claims to be non-refundable, that is, in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3725	Please, I apologize to Mrs. Suada Muminagić. She gave this in the form of a conclusion, right, and that's what we have to say here at this home, and that's why I'm saying, with an apology, I'm asking under number 1 to first state the conclusion that Mrs Suada Muminagić made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3726	At the request of the PSBiH House of Representatives, we received one reply from the Central Bank of BiH, and then we received another answer. I don't want to be able to go over this fact that in these two answers, the difference moves from about 30 million. So I suggest that the House of Representatives ask the Governor of the Central Bank to answer who is responsible for the previous incorrect information? What will be done to sanction and inform the House of Representatives? Namely, this type of information from the Central Bank of BiH can question the reputation and the reputation of the Central Bank of BiH, and BiH's reputation has largely been fought. For these reasons, I suggest that the PSBiH House of Representatives request information on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3727	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3728	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of defending the BiH Central Bank in these discussions. I think the first report of the Central Bank of BiH was also correct, as the Central Bank of BiH then said it had taken care of the principle of currency board, related to part of the payments that entered the central bank's deposits. The 79m-dollar gap existed then, but the BiH Central Bank did not say how such a financial gap came about. This supplement makes it clear. The creation of a political atmosphere or what was a crime, so certain names from the top of BiH's policy were found on the wallpaper, we are asking the BiH presidency to see if there were any criminalised activities 75 related to this gap. Do you really think that the gap that's said to be non-chargeable, 13.7 million, is small? Do you think if we tell the BiH Central Bank that it is responsible for the information and the lack of money, that we will reduce its responsibility, in front of the eyes of the international community, those people who can possibly be mentioned here, but not to prejudge it. It is not that information from the Central Bank of BiH as Mr Halid Genjac says. But she wasn't complete in this sense. It's still standing here, Mr. Genjac, that it's impossible to charge 13.7 million. Do you think 13.7 million is on the way, so if we find that they're responsible for that, this could just go away. I ask you to simply make sure we get accurate information. This is the right way. The BiH Central Bank gave a decadent report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3729	I, too, am in favour of accurate information, and I therefore suggested that precise information be sought who in this way provided the information to the PSBiH House of Representatives. I had a proposal and I'd like to make a statement. Thank you very much. Here we have, practically, three suggestions. We have, under number one, in fact the conclusion of Mrs. Suada Muminagić that we should plead here for or against. We have a proposal from Mr Špirić to ask the BiH presidency for an answer and we have Halid's proposal to ask the governor of the Central Bank of BiH to answer these questions. I'm asking that we make a statement about all the proposals, and I didn't say anything that they were opposed, or that they were disfellowshipped. So I ask you, who is to forward Mrs. Suada Muminagić's conclusion, with all these points listed here, as she suggested. Who's in? 19. Attending. 30. This proposal, i.e. the conclusion, is accepted by most votes. Who's against it, please? The rest are, therefore, abstentions, 11 abstentions. Thank you very much. By entities, let's be clear about all this. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 11. So we have most of it. Who's from RS for? There's a lot of them here -- 8. Any objections to the vote? Thank you very much. We believe this conclusion has been adopted. We have now, it's said that neither of these conclusions is in collegiate. We now have a proposal from Mr Špirić to ask the BiH presidency for an answer regarding the Central Bank of BiH, a problem we have heard here. Who's in favor of that proposal, of course you can be on all the suggestions that concern me personally. Here you go. So it's 17. This proposal has passed. By entities, please, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - You can't hear how much who's against? You can't hear what the number is from RS, who's in favour? 8. Thank you very much. So this proposal is going to be agreed upon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3731	- 9 is for, and how many from the Federation of BiH MPs? 9 is from the Federation of BiH for, and it should be 10. 76
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3734	You are a business voter of the majority, with two-thirds of each entity's total number of Members elected for the decision.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3735	Please, should we renew the vote? How many votes were there for?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3736	Nine was for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3737	10 I think it should be in the Rules of Procedure. As far as I know, 10 MPs should be from the Federation of BiH for.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3738	No, it doesn't. It's a question that's against it. It can't be.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3739	It's in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3740	Thank you very much. We now have a proposal from Mr Halid Genjac to ask the governor of the Central Bank of BiH for answers to these questions. Who's in? 25. Thank you very much. Who's against it? There's no one here. By entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? From the RS, who's in? [[You can't hear the number.]] 2. And this proposal is going to be agreed upon. Please take the vote as a serious matter.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3741	MPs, MPs, given the importance of this issue, given the economic situation and given a non-sharp relationship towards disappearance, mysterious occurrence, loans without a trace of tens of thousands of marks, and in particular in view of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask the College to take a break, try to agree this position, as I doubt that they will meet in the next 48 hours and immediately hold a vote, so that we can get this very important information for one of the next meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Your alignment can be in five minutes, so we can vote in the second round.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3742	Thank you very much, Mr. Tokić. I think we can take this break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3743	We intend, after the end of this session, that is, the 15th session, one break from 40 minutes to an hour, if it takes a financial commission to meet for the next session and the 16th session. We will use that session for the College session and at the beginning of the 16th session to complete this vote, to use the most rational time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3744	Can we go along with this and get it in the other hour when we're done? Thank you very much. Mr. Tokić, are you satisfied? Any other objections? There isn't. Thank you very much. Ad.8. Giving consent to the appointment of the BiH chief auditor and deputy. We had incomplete material last time, so we made remarks on all of it. Now I hope we have concrete and correct material this time and please, and I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Here you go. You've got materials.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3745	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that we asked the BiH Presidency then to draw closer to us, given the activity, given the introduction of a new BiH chief auditor institution, which is one of the essential institutions, we asked for additional information from members of the BiH presidency regarding the proposed candidates. We got that information, but then we heard from the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH Bičakčić that we have to do it that day, because there are huge sanctions for BiH, a run, a jug, there, here, if we don't do it, I want BiH to fail. Considering the time that's gone by, it's not exactly like that. I, as an MP today, will use my right to vote against only one candidate who should know, and I don't know, and this is a candidate proposed by a member of the RS presidency, Mr Živko Radišić. I think the materials on the candidates we have are talking about the most serious intention of the BiH presidency members to start working on such an important matter. If the professional qualification of a man is for the chief auditor and assistant, that he is a director in one firm and a member, it seems to me, the board of directors, or the Supervisory Board, then that only speaks of disaster and the mental part of people who are proposed for the main auditors. I, as an MP, will still remain against it until people are allowed to open up such an important debate and reconciliation that such important places require. I'm sorry I can't talk about other people because I don't know, but it seems to me that the reasons for them are just as high-quality as this argument I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3746	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Is anyone else picking up? Can we round up this agenda as well? Since we have three candidates here, Mr. Špirić, you've just made an observation on a third candidate or another, I don't know how it is. Let's vote one by one. Now we have to agree whether to vote in the package or vote individually.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3747	Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the BiH government has agreed that this package is slowly disappearing. Various packages and various packages and various party packages and various coalitions that hide from the people have led us to a situation of blocking the work of joint institutions, I am convinced. Professionals must be discussed about his professional prerogatives. Every member of the BiH presidency had the right to propose them. I want such a debate, but I do not dispute that you make any other conclusion, but I am convinced, anything voted in the package will disappear in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3748	Is there anyone else? I think it's really more democratic to pick one by one and I'll read the names this time, and you choose to plead yes or no. We got the resume from Mr. Ivan Miletić, I think the data you have here is satisfactory, no one was against it. Who is for Mr Ivan Miletić to be declared a man on this duty that we have appointed here. Who's in? - 16. Please, due to technical matters, we want to know exactly the number of present. 29. Then he's got most of it. Please make one more statement. Who is Mr Ivan Miletić's appointment for this proposal? Please raise your hands. 16. Then we have most of it. By entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? 12. Here, the remark has come that we must tell the public that it is recorded. 12 candidates from the Federation of BiH for. Who's from RS for? I see three voices. And this proposal has to be agreed upon. There's been an objection. Mrs. Havel, please. We have Mr. Samir Mušović's candidate here as deputy for this duty. I ask you to raise your hand which is for Mr Samir Mušović. His résumé and data you have, I hope quality enough here. Who's in? 17. By entities. Who's from the Federation of BiH for? 14. Who's from RS for? 3. So, the same fate as just before, it's going to agree. We finally have a third candidate. I wish that intervention had come in a moment. Maybe it's our slip, but we made it. We have a third candidate, and this is Kulin Dragan Miodrag. You also have his file. Who's for Mr. Kulin Dragan? Unfortunately, this candidate didn't pass the voting procedure either. This proposal is going to be agreed upon and we expect it again. That's how we circled the 8th agenda. Any objections to the vote compared to anything we've done at this point? We have parliamentary questions. I would ask you to make your questions as specific as possible, more precisely, and in writing to the Secretariat, because it will indeed go to processing, or to get answers as correct as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3749	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, an election... OSCE subcommittee has come public with the claim that there has been a malversion in certain DKPs in the process of registering voters for the next elections in BiH. Before that, we witnessed that there were also certain speculations in the press and doubts that the same situation occurred in certain DKPs in Germany, thus no doubt new political damage has been done to 79 BiH and its institutions in the international community. Given that the DKPs are part of the organisation structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been responsible, among other things, for this home, my question is what will the minister and his deputies do according to the above-mentioned DKPs regarding these allegations?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3750	Thank you very much, Mr. Divković. You will deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3751	Ladies and gentlemen, my question is very brief. Is there any lucky one of the members of the BiH Parliament who has received an answer to the already asked question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3752	You think so far.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3753	Here I am reporting to Mr Rasim Kadić that I did not get an answer to the question asked, and my question several times ago was, at one of the sessions, two or three months ago, addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and I asked for full information on the level of completion of the DKP, on the current structure, on the criteria and procedures used for that fill-in. Unfortunately, at least two sessions have passed and there is no information. I'm asking the Kolegijum to say if there's any cure to it? Can anything be suggested in that sense, it's a protest. My proposal, if possible, is to provide us with this information in writing before the next assembly session. Very likely, this is unpopular what I'm going to say, but without that written information, I'm not coming to the next assembly, because it's underestimating MPs, I say, it's not okay, but I'm asking you to use such funds. My question is next. I have information that BiH presidency members have not taken a stand on the relationship to the UN SRJ. You know that BiH has joined another member's request to challenge the presence of SRJ in the UN. I ask the question, who had the right, past the BiH Presidency, to make such a decision and if he had no right, what will the BiH Presidency do in further steps?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3754	Mr. Božanić answered, I suppose he can give some answers to some questions, so I apologize, Mr. Jahić, that's your turn.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3755	Dear gentlemen, two questions have been raised directly to the foreign ministry, but I remind you that you sent the same question to the Council of Ministers of BiH last time. The foreign ministry responded in writing to your request for the BiH Council of Ministers, but this was not on the agenda, therefore, from the BiH Council of Ministers you did not get an answer. There is a written and very precise question of yours, Mr Dokić, about the fill-up of the DKP by name and last name, fill-up by people and by national structure, you will be able to see it from this paper if it passes the procedure called the Council of Ministers of BiH. 80 As for the questions that had just been referred, and it is related to some manipulations with the registration of voters abroad, the College held a meeting, of course, will be a written response, you asked for a written reply and it will come in writing. I can tell you that the College has been considering and has already made a switch. V.D. will be sent. The deputy general consul in Stuttgart, already known the name and last name and he's on his way to, the technical part to finish and he'll be sent to Stuttgart today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Therefore, we responded directly to Mr. Beri's OSCE request. The written request also on any change or take some disciplinary measures towards those who have made any errors in working on the US list of voters has not been received. When we win, we will respond, too, in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3756	We all remember well that in the middle of the current year we had a so-called session here. A major disturbance, before the start of the Summit of Stability for Southeast Europe here in Sarajevo. From that time until today, I do not think that most MPs have any more detailed information about the implementation of the objectives of the Pact and I hold that it would be useful to get some information about it as soon as possible. I cite this for the reason that recently as a member of our Foreign Policy Committee, or the Committee, I attended a two-day conference in Sofia that discussed the possibilities of a parliamentary contribution, the possibility that parliaments of the countries that are members of the Pact should make an appropriate contribution to the realisation of the overall objectives of the Pact. I could also find out there that a number of countries in this region are already working to identify some of the generals, so to speak, the modality of mutual co-operation. That is why I would ask a question for the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry, possibly for the BiH presidency. Is it also to what extent BiH is present in the realisation, i.e. during the implementation of the objectives of the Pact after the Summit and possibly, if so, who is the co-ordinator of these activities? I ask that one detailed information be provided to the MPs on this, above all to our Committee, or to the Commission on Foreign Affairs, which could consider and possibly propose to the PSBiH House of Representatives some concrete modulation of our parliamentary participation during this post-Samitical period of implementation of the objectives of the Pact.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3757	Mr. Chairman, I wouldn't be moving away from this topic for two reasons. In 48 hours, according to a decision by the participants of the Stability Pact, BiH, or Sarajevo, will be the headquarters of one of the working tables of stability and security in this area. I am interested in when it will be possible for the BiH Parliament to get accurate information on what BiH, as host and co-chair of the important work table, will do six months after the most significant political event in 1999. What are the obligations both bodies and how this structure will simply be served and what role BiH will play in this process. That is why I ask that the Council of Ministers of BiH, the corresponding ministry and the corresponding ministries, as well as the BiH Presidency present a clear commitment at the first January session arising from such a role as the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers and the Foreign Ministry, is one practical thing. Following what we did well in 1999, we would do well to enter 2000, at the beginning of the year with a clear picture of the obligations and tasks of all organs and bodies. 81 The second question I would like to ask is about the data I would like to receive from all relevant institutions, whether it is the BiH Statistics Agency, which operates in the neighbouring building, in the UNIS building or the Council of Ministers and relevant BiH-level ministries, or the entity-level government, as much as in '99. Year, final of '99. In the year, it brought people home, all over BiH, and how much outflow, especially professional young people from BiH, has gone to the world in '99. A year? The two figures would show what the real blood count is and social and economical as well as political in BiH. I think that, as far as I could follow these published publications of the Statistics Agency so far, only part of this information, but this second part of which I insist on leaving the people of BiH, I failed to find the best possible way. It is a second question and I ask that the relevant institutions, the ministries, make sure that they give us this information or the agencies involved. The third issue concerns the totally processable admission of BiH to the Council of Europe during April. This is about 3-4 months away from a formal decision in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is known that the process is open to the Committee of Ministers and the Committee of Ministers to open the process towards the Parliamentary Assembly. I would like the delegation, also at the beginning of January, our delegation to the Council of Europe and our BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers and the Foreign Ministry to come out with a clear project and programme that will be implemented by April. As we will in April of the month, I would say, with full capacity, become members of the Council of Europe. This means a correction of the plans and programmes of the work of the BiH Parliament and of all bodies in BiH, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and other entity institutions, etc. The fourth thing I would like to put as a problem is for Mr Kurtović to tell us where the obstacle in the BiH Council of Ministers is to reach an economic strategy and social policy programme in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, after six months of insistence on reaching the programme and where it is a fundamental obstacle to the document coming before the BiH Parliament. This would be important because it would enable, in a way, the realization of one agreement, one decision made both by the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. Fifth and last, I would like to get an answer, in which way the College of the PSBIH House of Representatives will process the initiative we gave last time, Mr Kadić and I, within the framework of parliamentary rights and responsibilities, regarding those seven points of harmonisation of the entity's constitution with the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3758	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, we could all ask ourselves which Council of Ministers of BiH we are asking this question. My question concerns this set of very justified requests for information related to BiH's DKPs. In recent weeks, ads have appeared in the media and in the press, in which a certain DKP, along with SDA branches, has been carrying out some joint activities, some events are being conducted. In this context, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give information in which representations and who gave it the right to abuse professional duty to deal with day-to-day policy activities that I would think were completed the moment we entered the plural political system, and who is making the difference between certain political parties and the DKP? 82
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3759	Serbian nationalities have complained that since the entry of interest on old savings started, interest has not been recorded for members of Serbian nationality. I ask the question, what makes it seem and who is responsible for such a thing?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3760	Thank you very much, with a note that the exact data when where to whom...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3761	People complain and I can explain it. Whether it's some official decisions, the behavior of some individuals, or such an attitude. People complain about who they can turn to for that kind of behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3762	Who are you referring to? Can we know?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3763	The issue was addressed to the most responsible people in the Federation of BiH. Are the ministries, banks or governments responsible for this? First of all, I would say the government of the Federation of BiH is responsible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3764	Okay, we'll see with the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3765	We are in favour of BiH's equal civil rights to all people, and this pledge on the ground must also be concrete enforcement on the ground. We cannot allow any man to be dissatisfied in any kind of behavior or individual or collective. No one in any part of BiH who cannot be discriminated against, nor a BiH citizen who does not live in BiH should be discriminated against by BiH. That's one question. 2. Since we are in favour of having a modern state of BiH, which can be integrated into modern European countries and we are pushing for the last time to speed up the process of entering the Council of Europe, let's make it possible for people living in BiH to live as everyone else in Europe. One issue concerns the formation of a DKP in Banja Luka, for the reasons that people living in northwestern BiH have major problems in obtaining certain consent, documentation on these issues. They travel twice to Sarajevo to get some paper, and we know that the high percentage of people living in northwestern BiH are either employed abroad or in a direct or indirect relationship with abroad, especially with SR Germany, and France. In order to allow them as easy as possible, as fast as possible, as cheaply as possible, as effective a service as possible, we must go to that people. To provide them with 83 services where they live, not to have them... The explanation for such a thing is that a large number of people who come to Sarajevo are getting such papers. They're talking about pensions, marriages, economic areas, sports and culture... etc. I received data from the representative office that the daily phone addresses 50 people who are processed, and in order to be considered at all, they have to wait seven days to get the place, and then four weeks wait to get the date to come to Sarajevo. I must draw attention that they must personally come to Sarajevo. There are old people here, disabled, sick, etc. Going and coming to Sarajevo, after five days must come for the papers. You know what kind of bullying people who complain every day and ask why they don't get that closer to their place of residence.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3766	Dear colleagues, I have asked two parliamentary questions in half of the 9th month, until today I have not received any answers. Namely, my questions were addressed to the High Representative, or to his office. The first question was when a 250-square-mile circus will be settled under the Dayton Agreement, in order to meet a 49% bonus of territory and the second issue concerns the powers of the high administrator for the Brcko district. Namely, whether Mr. Farand can change the inter-entity line in the Brcko municipality by his decisions and whether he can extend his powers beyond the territory of the municipality, the city of Brcko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3767	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take my word for it now, and if I have to say in writing, about Mr. Spahić's question. In fact, the BiH Council of Ministers discussed and this debate over a global economic strategy is more than ours conditioned by the World Bank's demand that the next donor year 2000 can be held if BiH has a global economic strategy on the basis of which future donors or creditors would be animated in the coming year. In that sense, we have taken appropriate action, given that the activities of such species cannot be brought to an end unless a number of people from both entities are engaged and, of course, from the Council of Ministers of BiH. We considered it necessary and sufficient at this time to create a kind of initial material that would be the basis for considering entities, and then on the basis that they would be made known and give a certain number of people in terms of and complements, that is, additional thesis that should cover this initial material and the engagement of potential foreign experts and domestic scientific workers who would work on making such a kind of strategy. No matter what some interventions were on our part, the Federation of BiH has sent its representatives, but we have not yet received any response from the RS. We are about at the next point, if, and probably will not, eventually, arrive at the answer, that according to the BiH Council of Ministers, we are going with what we have done so far, with a request that the Council of Ministers, in practice, cut off and make further instructions. If it doesn't start with the creation of an economic development strategy, some global, in January of the month, I'm afraid it'll be late for a donor conference, and we also know the fact that this kind of material can't be done quickly, it needs to be hired, that I don't say BiH's scientific intelligence dealing with this problem, so we'll probably have to make a decision in January. I am sorry for the 84 things that happen, especially because I know that entities have their own partial development strategies that can certainly be a good basis for BiH's strategy and I hope that they will not be conflicted and conflicted. Simply, we at BiH level want to integrate and that BiH as a state has its modern, one view, which is how it deals with its future, so at this point it is no longer a ball with us, more to the entities, especially in RS, and I would ask the Members of the Republic of Slovenia to, as far as possible, influence this process, which at this point is stalled in this place, and to move on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3768	I've only got one intervention here. Is Mr Spahić pleased with this answer or should we forward your questions further?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3769	I think that, if I may, it is quite clear that we have defined ourselves in the only document that we have managed to adopt after 50 hours of debate in committees and 10 hours of public debate on European integration that this is one of the priorities. I can tell you exactly that we, as one reasonable home, and also the House of Nations, have come to the conclusion that we need it. All the amendments that were given back then, which were somehow trying to explain these very basic elements of one country, one normal economy, were looking for exactly this. I think the BiH Council of Ministers in its reconstruction, when we talk about it, must find space to have a ministry of normal economy. I received assurances, six months ago, went to the Chamber of Commerce, went to the Employment Service and talked to people all over BiH's territory. I was told that by the end of the year the BiH Chamber of Commerce would be created. I read those papers and saw what was there. We can't even start talking about this chamber today, they're not here in Parliament. We cannot enter European integration normally as a country if we do not have a state-level economy, if there is no Minister for Economic Affairs, if there are no experts to do the job. Now I heard, yesterday, that politicians are some, such as some concepts, in order to say modernly, other politicians, raised the issue of expert governments. Please, I can't be satisfied with the answer, I have to tell Minister Kurtović, because we've been showing up here for six months after a pay phone and asking for an explanation that is simply normal for this BiH. Here is an opportunity in the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers, to make arguments under what is necessary and to find conditions and space to have a minister for these issues. Let's find the conditions that we have a ministry that will work properly. If the ball is transferred to entities, to ministries, to the BiH Council of Ministers, there is no way out. It's my opinion that the country has reason to worry, it won't, I don't believe, any institutions, no World Bank, no Monetary Fund, no one else is serious about us unless there's what's called a policy instrument, and in order to be an instrument, it has to be the first policy. So, so that there is no older coke or egg, let's agree on a reconstruction to get both the Ministry and the programme and the instruments for the implementation of this programme.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3770	Thank you very much. 85
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3771	Ladies and gentlemen, since my colleague Ibro has often submitted, he should have just said so. This is exactly how you submit to not getting to what Mr. Ibro is hearty about. Mr. Ibro Spahić, when it comes to economics, I have to tell you that it's not just what you're talking about. Principle of currency board, disabling activity. Who's defending the cantons from having a consistent development? Why don't you have it in the Federation of BiH? Who is defending RS from developing and developing in harmony with BiH? Who defends having a coherent entity strategy for economic development and to reach a global one that you already insist on? It is not true that the International Bank will not cooperate individually. That's not true. How many international projects are now in realisation at BiH level, not signed with the Council of Ministers or exclusively with the BiH Council of Ministers. Don't turn things upside down, you won't feed the people with that story. There is no way to define BiH's global economic development until it enters more peaceful political and regional waters. There's no way. You can now have an ideal economic development strategy BiH will not run the money of the international community, Mr Spahić. I ask you, really, through the parliamentary questions you ask why we don't have a global strategy. Don't explain it to us, there are a thousand reasons why she's gone, and we can't influence them, only if you don't tell us that Mr. Petrič has to prescribe it, so it's a strategy, but it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3772	Please, a replica to last two minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3773	I just want to remind you that Mr Špirić has made the best proposal and contribution to the construction of a document called the Resolution on European Integrations and the Pact for Southeast Europe. I have to remind him that he got the satisfaction, because that amendment was accepted and entered the Resolution. He directly refutes all that Mr. Špirić has now said, therefore, his attitude and the amendment that we adopted to him, and, behold, there are all the MPs and I just want to remind him of that text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3774	Since I could not identify the address on the issue of diplomatic-consular services provided by foreign representations to BiH citizens, I am looking for some little clarification or possibly one answer. The services of such a species that you, Madam MP, have set up, are provided by the countries that are accredited here, which have accredited representations in the capital of BiH. The main embassies of all countries in the world, the main diplomatic representations are located in the BiH capital. It is not a great difficulty to travel from Banja Luka to Sarajevo, if we remember that once the citizens of Yugoslavia from Jesenic and Djevgelija traveled to Belgrade for the same service. Of course, there are both ways and large more powerful embassies, richer embassies, richer states, can organise their diplomatic detachments on a permanent and temporary basis, to provide certain services to BiH citizens, or neighbouring states. I don't know who it's addressed to. If it's addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The foreign ministry can only answer an individual question that it is a problem facing 86 BiH citizens. So, just one problem, so let's ask ourselves to intervene with some diplomatic representations of a particular state. We can't suggest states individually where to open their diplomatic representations, consulates, you probably meant consulates or some consular representations of another kind. The embassies are in Sarajevo, the main services will be provided in the BiH capital.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3775	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed fellow MPs, MPs, I must show my satisfaction that Minister Kurtović, indeed, has tried to react immediately to the extent that this is even possible to respond to the information the ministry has at its disposal and I think it is a very good practice to respond to the site, if possible. At the very least, even these answers are unsatisfactory than answers we never get. However, Mr Kurtović's statement asked me to ask a parliamentary question that I didn't think was to be asked, and I couldn't believe it was possible to ask it, but unfortunately, we have now received in response to Spahic's question, for me an alarming information. In fact, if I understood correctly, by January next year, which is said to be, in 33 days, we have to have a development strategy as a prerequisite for the talks to start or to have, to start as far as we can get to the end of the middle of the year, so that we can enter the donor cycle. Minister Kurtović has indeed appealed here to the people of the Federation of BiH, although I do not believe it is necessary to do so from this pay phone, unless some talks have already been held in the BiH Council of Ministers. I expected the BiH Council of Ministers and the ministry to brief us on what has been done with individual entities so far. I want to draw attention to one thing, to answer whether it's been communicated to entity governments so far, whether they're asked to, whether they're told what they should do, whether they're given some kind of project task and how much they're in collapsing with what they're doing right now, except the appeal for RS to do it. I must say that a kind of expert debate is being held in the public these days on something that has the working title "The Government's economic policy measures for next year", as regards the Federation of BiH. I must admit, if the RS is asked to do what the federal government did, then it's better not to. Because the federal government has made such economic policy measures for 2000, which would serve honorably for the managers of the surviving economy. It's such an inappropriate way of making an economic policy, like it hasn't worked here in the last 50 years with such a commanding way inappropriate in 2000. Therefore, my colleague Kurtović, I would ask that we be answered for what a project task has been delivered to them, what is the RS doing now, what is the Federation of BiH doing, does it all make any sense, does it fit what you do? For me, the question now is this. Has the BiH Presidency responded anything to our conclusion, on the basis of a statement from the chairman, co-chairing pardon, co-chaired by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr Tomić, who, in the most recent manner, has informed Parliament about the situation we are in with regard to macroeconomic policy and external debt management in the context of this story? To answer whether the BiH presidency has responded and to answer us who will do so, Mr Minister, now that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not exist. Whether it will be done by your ministry, whether it is the Ministry's obligation now, whether it will be done by an expert group or who will do so, because it is perfectly clear that the Council of Ministers of BiH is no longer an address that is politically relevant to Parliament, so that it can answer questions like this. I thank 87 colleagues Kurtović for telling the MP, Spahić, that he has revealed some things that are really alarming for anyone who is still thinking about what is going on in the year ahead. The economic disaster ahead of us is a direct product of what we have now, and it is primarily an unconstitutional Council of Ministers of BiH that no longer exists, and total inconsistencies between entity governments acting as if the government of Cameroon and New Zealand, and as if you are here as some expert group... that should bring their strategies into line, if any.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3776	A serious question has been raised here, and that is whether the BiH Council of Ministers exists. For your information, the BiH Council of Ministers exists. Even if it had resigned, it would have been there until a new government was elected. It was said here earlier that such a disastrous economic situation led to the BiH Council of Ministers' absence. It is one nebulosis and one hypocrisis that rules here in this House. The BiH Council of Ministers worked as hard as it could. Why didn't you answer all the suggestions I made? You who are now talking about BiH, about the disaster. Then why weren't you here? 20 laws still stand here to be answered. Why don't we have the Property Act? Because you didn't support him, gentlemen, all together. There's no property law. Property law, please. Are you, Mr. Tokić, who now answers the word one said about it ever in this House? Have you ever delivered me a word about any law, an amendment to any one word that I'm in 20 drafts or working materials, call them whatever you want, I'm not. If you want to be really good to this people, stop that hypocrisis. Where are your answers to that? Where's your work here? Who are you talking to, gentlemen? What kind of way is that? Have you ever answered here, there are 20, and so now I'm asking the question of the College, why has 20 of my draft laws not come up on the agenda? Is it so someone can say that the BiH Council of Ministers is working or not working? The BiH Council of Ministers has no BiH economy ministry. Who do you think is to blame and who asked it to be? I asked us to have an economy, to have justice, to have a ministry of justice, to have everything as the rest of the country, who supported me? I asked all the political parties in '98, '97. So let's go to the international community with a request for borders, about the expansion of the ministries because we can't do this, etc., no one supported me. Now that the election is coming up and we're talking about it, etc., excuse me, please. We don't have a ministry, you just asked Mr. Kurtović, give me some information on this. Why would he give you information? First, if there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, what would give you information? Who are you looking for, gentlemen? What kind of ministry can the team do? Do you know that we have a problem in the ministry to put macro-economic policy on the agenda? Do you know that? If you don't know, then you don't work, if you don't know, then you should go and talk to those who won't. What are you always talking to the BiH Council of Ministers? The head of the BiH Council of Ministers, gentlemen, has, please, presented laws that I think are good, 20 laws since '97. Since February, you've been standing there and you've never supported it and you've been telling stories here. How are we supposed to process this case now if we don't have an economy ministry? Whoever's supposed to be doing this, explain it to me. The Department of Foreign Trade. The foreign trade ministry filed a report. The foreign ministry filed a report. The Ministry of Civil Affairs filed a report and what do you want from the Council of Ministers of BiH? If the Council of Ministers of BiH is not equipped as we asked, and it is not equipped because there is obstruction, BiH, as it should be, normal, in my opinion, for all citizens and there is political obstruction, by objecting to the BiH Council of Ministers and not talking here to each other. There's no conversation here. 88 There's only a vote here. Who's talking to who here? Why are these remarks addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers not addressed to those who do not? Why do you think? Because it's more productive for policy points to go out and talk about economic disaster here. We have an economic disaster, among other things, because we don't have a legal system. There's no investment. Why, gentlemen, did you not support me in reforming the legal system in '97? A year? You haven't heard from her alive, gentlemen, and now you're telling stories here. You haven't heard from him alive. Show him you've heard from him. What about my memos that I sent to the international community to settle this situation? You weren't anywhere, gentlemen. Now you're talking about economic disaster. No one will invest in BiH unless we have a legal system right. No one's insecure about the money. Why don't we have that? Because one man asked for it, unfortunately, that was me, and the rest of you were silent, that's why. We don't have it because you didn't support it. Here you go. Here you go. Borders today, three and a half years I've been looking for boundaries, whether they're rejected today, are. Well, you're welcome to talk to your colleagues here who refused, which, with the Council of Ministers of BiH, would like to talk to them about why they refused. Convince them that this is good for every BiH citizen, not the BiH Council of Ministers. It's a hoax to the people. You are addressing the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH Council of Ministers has submitted, here you are, here are the laws, why they are not accepted. Talk to those who won't. Since you won't, then you're telling me about the economic disaster here. Where were you in '97, where you were in '98? When was I working on that? Where were you when I asked you to speak to the High Representative together, you were nowhere to be found, now you're telling stories about some kind of economic disaster. Of course it will be difficult, there will be no economic disaster at all, it will be very difficult, but it could have been much better if we had all performed as people defending the interests of BiH citizens. We didn't. Today it's proven. It was proven yesterday. This stage has become only a political show for the BiH people who are asking us for results, not a show. If we're going to talk about the results, let's agree to be the day-to-day score, so everyone will talk about their score. Let's agree on the day-to-day score, and everyone talks about the results, not the stories we talked about, but the results.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3777	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues, MPs, MPs, colleagues, Mr Silajdžić, I fully understand. If I were you, I'd probably be even more nervous. Probably because of the words you used here, addressing your colleagues, MPs, whom I belong to, such as nebulosis and hypocrisis, I forgive you, as they say, your nervousness which is logical. You see, this is the President of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Kasim Begić, who was in Dayton as your advisor and signed the Dayton Agreement with you, writes in today's Liberation, that BiH is now a state without a legitimate government. Mr. President of the Court, your longtime advisor and your member of the expert team in Dayton explained that you are illegal, that you are sitting in an illegal government. I must admit that you must define yourself, not who you are talking to, but who you are talking to, whether you speak as party president and as an MP. In that case, you're entitled to everything you've said. The number of laws you have proposed as an MP goes to your plus, in your activity. However, Mr Silajdžić, you are sitting here, too, in two other functions, as a signator of Dejton and as co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers. You are sitting as the co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers whose success is measured, not by the number of proposed laws of MP Silajdžić, but by the number of laws adopted in the BiH Council of Ministers by modernators, one of the illegal ones, and from today, the fully illegal co-chairs of the BiH Council of Ministers. The fact that you have proposed 150 laws, as an MP, is also an MP, Silajdžić. Having adopted zero laws of that, that's 89th of a man sitting at the post of BiH's Co-chair Council of Ministers. As of today, in order to avoid misunderstandings, you, Mr. Mihajlović, Mr. Tomić, are the three who are guilty if you continue to act as a function of conduct, and you are not on the basis of this, only this one you have resigned and said goodbye, pleasantly, we are from today only a technical government and therefore, Mr. Silajdžić, since you asked us who we are talking to, we are no longer talking to you, and why there are no investments in this country, there is no you, because of you and the concept of the government you have been representing for 10 years, along with the people you have brought yourself into a position, But anyway, I have to tell you that '97. and '98. For years, we referred, among other things, to you sitting in a position that was unconstitutional, and that everything else... [[The intruder who's calling you right now must be Kasim.]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3778	Don't get nervous in here right now. I'm begging you. Mr. Tokić, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3779	You never know when it can come to the first plan, so I'm lucky to get on the forehead from the donkey bench. Thank you to Mr Silajdžić and fellow Lagumdžija who were so extensive. It's my intention to help the chairman. We're away from the agenda point. The agenda item, he writes parliamentary questions, and my suggestion is in the future, without voting that, if there were questions at the previous session, at the next session, there is a point of the agenda to answer parliamentary questions. By estimating some of the obligations that some MPs have here and the limited time related to it in today's assembly, I suggest we really give up the polemics and the replicas because that's not the agenda point. The chairman has the right to channel the session, to go on the agenda, to make matters clear, concisely set and that is for the future. When questions are asked, no comments are asked. When answers are received, then comments can be given to supplement the agreement. The proposal is, who has a potentially brief question and let's see if we're going to take a break and whether or not we're going to continue today after this to work with the 16th session, if we have to finish by four o'clock.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3780	Thank you very much, Mr. Dokić. That's what I want to ask you, but here's another word for Rakić and Tokić. The Rakić's giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3781	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am truly sorry that a strict, respect for the Rules of Procedure was not respected when Mr Silajdžić was completely unargued and past the procedure, I do not know in what function, this political speaker was used for probably a reckoning with those who point to all the failures of his personal policies and policies of the institutions to which he belongs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3782	Please, I'm not a boxer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3783	I must, Mr Silajdžić asked directly why I did not support Mr Silajdžić. Support you, Mr. Silajdžić, in the '90s. year, you mentioned the name, it meant being before the election in propaganda, that people voted for those most of whom are now in The Hague. '91. The year was to support a government in which the SDA, SDS and HDZ have created a concept that is still trying to keep people's dignity down in both economic and political terms and in any other sense. Back you up in '95. In '92, '93, '94. and '95. in which the only principle was territory. You, Mr Silajdžić, with the current president of Yugoslavia, later boasted about it, worried about how many meters the corridor will go, forgetting the essence of the survival of this country. Supporting you in '97. For years, it would be to support your signature on a law that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. To the law that brought us into a situation that we don't have a legitimate government today. Support you today, December of '99. For years, it means supporting a politician who gave the best portrait here today about himself. You can tell Silajdžić everything, but tell him something's not in power, it's very, very dangerous. The decade of your authority has been a decade of this BiH's tormented life, and for BiH's sake, give up false declaration that you are for BiH. Whom you can still convince that for BiH, in a situation of such failures and in a situation where you should bear here moral consequences that the BiH Council of Ministers has not accomplished its tasks, it is hypocritical to talk about how it has accomplished all the tasks. Your 20s, I speak as a member of the Constitutional Commission, your 20 laws, Mr Silajdžić, did not come into the procedure, so those laws of Ambassador Silajdžić, his own opinion, which is binding, did not give the Council of Ministers the lead with Silajdžić. For further discussion, your controversy remains with itself, which will likely continue after the collapse of this concept of power.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3784	Okay, please don't go into the duel, because these are simply parliamentary questions. I suggest that...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3785	I don't have any duels, just to say some things, to sort things out here. It's all clear and everything's said and it's known how many people work and how many votes they get. Otherwise, how many votes will anyone get, according to who did what, what grade, it's pretty clear. Let each count how many votes he's won. I know exactly how far behind I am and everything's fine. As far as it is concerned, it is said here, and I call on it, that zero has been done by the BiH Council of Ministers. As far as I know, the BiH Council of Ministers has proposed more laws than the BiH Parliament has adopted. Am I right, gentlemen? The BiH Council of Ministers is not behind... Proposal for a law on public documents, draft law on the Treasury, draft law on the procedure for the conclusion of international contracts, draft law on holidays, waiting for you laws on legal reform. They are not here today just because they are being processed by the international community. Therefore, the BiH Council of Ministers has done its job, so it is in front of the BiH Parliament in its work and cannot be talked about any zeros, no failures. We can talk, but when we look at the paper, it's not like that. Is the BiH Council of Ministers in front of the BiH Parliament when it comes to laws? The answer, gentlemen, is yes. Therefore, if there is a problem with the law, please feel free to talk to others here, not the Council of Ministers of BiH, because it has done its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-15-0.u3786	Thank you very much. The 15th session is over. If anyone else has any legal questions, have them deliver them in writing. Thank you very much. We're taking a half-hour break and then we'll see what we can do with the 16th session that's planned today. The seat's finished at 2.50.
