ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u220	I find that the session is attended by the majority, i.e. they are not just from the Bosnian club, only, sir, Izet Šarčević, from the Croatian People's Club, Pero Marković, the others present, therefore, this session can begin work. I am opening a session, 6th in a row at the Home of the People of Bosnia and Herzegovina. /Playing anthem/ We can move on to the draft agenda that you received in addition. Any suggestions for changing or supplementing the agenda? If not, who's for this agenda? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. So we're adopting the agenda. Moving to point 1. Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the 5th session of the record is attached. Does he have any objections to the record? If not, who is to adopt this record? Who's in? Against? Restraint? There's no one here. So, unanimously adopted minutes from last session. Second item of the agenda Ad.2. A review of parliamentary questions to which no answers have been received You have this review. I personally believe that the answers should be obtained, so simply repeat the request to competent institutions, individuals, to give answers to parliamentary questions. Does anyone have a different opinion? If there is no, then we conclude that we demand that the competent institutions and bodies and individuals to whom the questions are referred again give an answer. 2 Ad.3. Preparations for the Stability Pact Conference for Southeast Europe As far as I see it will be the last item. As far as I can see, there are not those who are the most directed about it, and these are Mr. Foreign Minister Jadranko Prlić, the chairman and co-chair of Mihajlović and Siladžić, who are not there. We have a meeting on Thursday, so I don't see any need. If you think that someone has here and needs to inform us, let them know, there's a pay phone, and if you think that's enough on Thursday, when there's a joint session, then we'll switch it over for Thursday. He doesn't hate to take his word for it. Mr. Silajdžić, can we sit down? One of the points of the agenda is the Information on preparation for the Stability Pact, I know that this is your good topic and grateful topic right now for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u221	The Honorable Presidency, the Work so far, is in the position of preparing for the Summit Stability Pact... Gentlemen, the Organizational Committee for Preparation of this summit is in full swing and, let me start with brief information, it is that, as far as our sides are concerned, everything is prepared, that all subcommittees meet regularly, there are eight of them, that the main committee, also, meets, that the BiH Presidency has been informed of..., which, also, within the framework of this Central Committee on Preparation of the Summit, has accepted the information that some initiatives have been adopted. However, I can immediately say, if it is short information, that there are some open questions. First of all, as far as I'm concerned, I have to tell you, a formal decision on the maintenance of the summit which is obviously purely formal in nature, and should come today and, in this regard, send invitations. So until the invitations are sent, we believe that the formal decision has not been made. It's just that it takes some time to complete some formalities, and I hope that, here, today, we'll already finish this job. I should say immediately, as far as the Organization Committee is concerned, not only on our part, but also on the part of the European Union, which, of course, is chairing this summit, on the other hand, the work is done on time and well. However, there are some formal decisions, as I said, that are not in the hands of this organisational committee. The international community, as you know, has sent its high-level expert team to Bosnia and Herzegovina to assess so far preparations and the ability of Bosnia and Herzegovina to organise such a meeting in a very short time. The evaluation of the work of the Organization Committee is, as you know, positive, good and therefore continued work in the European Union on the organisation of this summit, and not only in the European Union, but also in other countries. It's a very short time. So, these conferences are being prepared for at least half a year to a year, under normal conditions, but today such a situation is that we have to prepare within a few weeks. We do everything we can, even financially, there are some open issues that are, of course, resolved, and if there are no major disturbances, we hope for a successful summit, and not only hope, but also work on it. I'm just coming from a meeting like this, so the head of the subcommittee and here I am reporting this body that the preparations are going well, that we are optimistic and that, of course, everything that depends on us in Bosnia and Herzegovina will be done right. 3 If you want some more detailed information...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u222	Only informally, have the Member States confirmed their arrival at what level?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u223	So, we expect the invitations to be sent as soon as possible from Bosnia and Herzegovina, this can only be followed by some formal decisions that must be made, and the Member States have politically decided to maintain this summit and, therefore, have confirmed their participation without exception and at the highest level, as you know. Of course, I'm not talking about unforeseen circumstances, what can be predicted is that all participating countries will be presented at the highest level and, behold, if I can say one of my grades, in any case, the confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and hopefully a new step in the new era, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole region. I must point out that co-operation across Bosnia and Herzegovina is on this issue at a high level, that there are officials from both entities involved in preparations, that co-operation is good and, of course, with some open technical issues, given the shortness of time, that co-operation is welcome and it is going well so far. We hope it's still gonna be that way. There is no reason for this summit not to go well and for Bosnia and Herzegovina to gain credibility in the international community. The 29th regional meeting should be held, and the 30th, Summit, a regional meeting, of course, also under the Presidency of the European Union, as well as the Summit, i.e. under the presidency of Mr Ahtisari, who is the chair of the European Union, as head of the state of Finland during this period. The delegations set out for the organisation of this summit outside, from the United States and Europe, arrive daily, and today we expect Russia's ambassador, who is in charge of preparation in front of the European Union, the ambassador, therefore, from Finland, Mr Rusi, who is in charge of President Ahtisari to organise this summit. I wouldn't say, I think there's been enough talk about the political aspect, about maintaining this summit, I don't think there's any need to repeat it, we all know how much this summit of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole region means, and on our part, we'll do the best if we prepare well for this summit. Here, if there's anything else, I'd like to thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u224	Thank you. Before I move to the next point, I would say a few words that I forgot at the beginning, and that, according to constitutional order, at the end of this session, I will leave the role of the chairman to my colleague Žigić, not to have some dilemma, you who are present at these meetings of the House of People, see that something, either with us or with others is wrong, and maybe it's okay, but the situation with us and others is a little different. 4 Namely, our sessions take an extremely short time, because journalists who, later on, probably have to copy from others, have now happened to us. However, I assure you that part of this is the cause of our work, we have held the College, as we do regularly, we have held committees, working bodies meetings, so it is not expected that this session will last long, because we, more or less, have resolved any issues before the session, so that there is no confusion about the way it works and the course of this session. The next item of the agenda is Add.4. Consideration and adoption of the Framework Law on the Privatisation of Business and Banks of Bosnia and Herzegovina You know that this law was passed in the previous meeting of the PS Bosnia and Herzegovina House of Representatives, that the Serbian side has asked for a certain consensus, agreements at the level of its government, it has been done in the meantime, so I open a debate on this issue, and I say again, I do not expect any special problems, which is why we have done this on the commission, more or less. Here you go. Mr. Tošić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u225	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, you know that we have asked for some additional explanations from the OHR regarding the Framework Law on the privatisation of businesses and banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is, we have also sought the position of our government, because we have been unclear here in an interpretation, and we have come to an absolutely agreed position that, and the interpretation of OHR and our government, this law explicitly recognises the right to privatise businesses and banks located in their territory, so that today we are ready to vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u226	Thank you, Mr. Tošić. The law is before you. Is there any more debaters? If not, who's to pass this law? Do you mind? Abstained? There isn't. So the Framework Law on the privatisation of companies and banks was unanimously adopted. Ad.5. The next item of the agenda is a law passed quickly and today put on the agenda, although it was not at the House of Representatives, because we will not have a regular session, and the other home will. According to my information, 5 I think yours are as well, that the adoption of this law on the BiH Council of Ministers was no problem, so I am opening a debate on the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u227	Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, MPs, dear guests, I would like to inform this House that we, just before today's session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, have discussed this document at the Commission, indicating that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the 10th session, referred this document in the form of a draft to the parliamentary procedure by an urgent procedure, by considering the draft in the form of the proposal. In addition, we must come from the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina has accepted specific obligations for implementing standards, recommended in the practice and procedures of ISA, as a member of the Contracting Party of the International Aviation Organisation, ISA, and the signatories of the International Civil Aviation Convention are obliged to comply with these standards. In this regard, there were no contrary opinions on the Commission, the more the Commission is also a representative of the Transport and Communications House, at its session of 15. 7. support the adoption of this law, with respect to what is also on the Commission for Transport and Communications of the People's House is accepted to support the amendment of the Constitutional Legal Commission to Article 64, point 2, in that respect, where the law enters into force, and which is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, one amendment is made, so that it does not stand there that the Law enters into force on the date of publication in the Official Journal, but that it enters eight days after the publication in the Official Journal, it would be a proposal for an amendment, so I would ask that we determine ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u228	I think it's more of a technical remark. I am personally in favour of the Commission's position, which means that it will enter into force eight days after the publication. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u229	I don't know, it's our proposal, our club, that, however, we go as every congregation does, that we have these laws in the draft always, and then we go into the proposal. I don't know why, we are always left with a very short period of time and time that we absolutely cannot and can't study these laws and we, MPs, give our opinions and opinions. We, about, act that what the Council of Ministers prepares must be a holy letter for this high house. Now we're in a position to consider this in the draft today, if we have to go on Thursday's proposal. We don't want it to turn out to be any kind of obstruction, they often attribute to us, if we call on our rules of procedure and our job and our assignment, to do something in the way. So we're in a position to consider this as a draft today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u230	As far as I'm concerned, it's very acceptable for me, provided that you are present at a joint session and that after a session of the House of Nations, it's just, let me say, a sequel to this session, and whatever we call it, or a new session, that we adopt this law in such a procedure. 6 And as for me personally, I have no objection to Mr. Tošić's remarks. I put this on the agenda because I was asked to, and they didn't have time for it, because it was somehow on the day of the appointment of this session, etc. I think this home should have its dignity, it should have a procedure, it should be respected, therefore, nothing will be lost if we do as Mr Tošić suggested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u231	I agree with the chairman. It is true that in the Rules of Procedure, the Interim Rules of Procedure of the House of People states that the first draft rules and proposals are considered by the House of Representatives, then the House of Peoples, but there is also one sentence that the House of Nations may consider certain proposals earlier, if there are reasonable reasons. Therefore, since the Members of the Republic of Serbia's Club wants us to have this law today, he said, we are considering in the House of Peoples, I am more inclined to this proposal, which he chaired, that we are considering today, in fact, already, this proposal, if someone has objections and suggestions, let them, if not, that, after a joint session, which will be held on Thursday, we will also hold a session and adopt this law, and likely, will adopt him and the House of Representatives. I think we could agree on that and not to have a special session, but to continue this session for the agenda points that will not be adopted today. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u232	Thank you, Mr. Čampara. I think that if there are no other views, that we are close to one correct solution to do, according to this proposal that we have received together, which was given in parts by Mr Tošić and Čampara. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Moving to the next item of the Ad.6 agenda. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on their status, conditions and method of use This point was last time, with fewer remarks, it was delayed, as far as I have information now, you have a new proposal. So you have a decision ahead of you. I'm opening a debate. If there is no debate, I suggest we adopt the same text as predstavnički House of Representatives. Who's in? Do you mind? Restraint? There isn't. So I'm realizing that this decision has been taken unanimously. 7 The next decision is... So it's the same matter, only the second, separate point. If not, if this decision is adopted, this is what I suggest, if there is no one to discuss, that we adopt this decision in the same way. Anybody have a discussion? There isn't. Who's in favor of a decision like this? I also find that this decision has been unanimously taken. Ad.7. Giving ratification, i.e., consent to ratification of the agreements that you have on the agenda from a) to g) And we have added here a similar conclusion adopted by the House of Representatives. I'd like to go, however, in order, given that it is, no matter what, more or less the same matter, it could be said to the pattern, but it's different agreements, so I suggest we consider them individually and adopt them. (a) A development loan agreement, a basic healthcare project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and international development associations You have an agreement in favour of the agenda, I can inform you that the BiH Council of Ministers has proposed these agreements for ratification. I'm opening a debate with this agreement. If there is no, as we have established on the Commission, I call for a vote. Who's in favor of this agreement? As far as I can tell, there's no one against and restrained. So unanimity is given for the ratification of this agreement. b) We have the Development Credit Agreement - Pilot project of the institutions and work of the social sector (?). I'm opening a debate. No Niko's got to argue. Who's in favor of this agreement? Thank you. I'm saying, unanimously, there's no need to ask who's in favor and against. c) Development Credit Agreement - Pilot project of cultural heritage. You have an agreement ahead of you. I'm opening a debate. No one's got a debate. Who's in favor of this agreement? Thank you. It's unanimous again. 8 d) Development Credit Agreement - Credit for adjustment in the privatisation of companies. I'm opening a debate. There's no one to argue with, who's in favour of this agreement? It's unanimous again. e) The credit agreement on the project to encourage the export of enterprises can only conclude that these are really current topics, that these are all the credits necessary for the structural adjustment of our system, in the first row of the economy. I'm opening a debate. Who's in favor of this agreement? This agreement is unanimously accepted. f) Development credit agreement - Second credit for the structure and coordination of public finances. I'm opening a debate. Who's in favor of this agreement? Unanimity. g) The agreement today is off because no draft aviation law has been adopted, so this goes along with the law. This agreement under g) is postponed for Thursday's session to continue. We'll determine the exact time of the session later, when this joint session is over, dedicated to the Pact. It could be an hour of tolerance. Moving to point 9. Ad.8. A review of Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's 1998 report, as you know, this institution, without further comments, is being led by a foreigner, Piter nikol, and successfully, I just forgot to say something else. After these agreements, one conclusion. The conclusion would be this, for all these agreements, it is up to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to regularly monitor the fulfilment of all the conditions for the implementation and provision of the necessary preconditions for the timely implementation of the agreement and inform the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina every six months. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina is tasked with delivering to the People's House a report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's total debt in the past period, i.e. the total debt of Bosnia and Herzegovina. There's the most appropriate on that basis, or I'd say, both are relevant, one by function chair, co-chair, and the other, which is much closer to his profession and workplace, so I think you two have colleagues, do you have any objections to this conclusion? Any of them have any MPs? Let's get this conclusion to the vote. 9 This conclusion is unanimously adopted. I apologize for this little disorder. So, you have a report from the Central Bank of BiH ahead of you. I know there's a little time here and a lot of data and a lot of things, but since the first report of the Central Bank of BiH, I think this is a good way to get used to, and for the next time, I hope that we will have more time... ie, a little more time for those who understand better and who are more interested and who need to consult at any level and to any level, to do so, but this time, I would open the debate, of course, I personally have no objections to this report. This report was not considered by the House of Representatives for the same reason that the report came the same day as the meeting of the House of Representatives. Do you want this, too, to be a procedure like before, to put it as out of pure form to be, if a session exists, to put it on the agenda of our continuing session, or to adopt today, I think it's more practical that what they've done is, in some way, representatives of all three sides, conditionally speaking, it seems to me that one such consensus exists, that we put this point as a sequel, that the form is closer to how this home should be done. I don't mind adopting. I'm opening the debate. Are we going to adopt that? I'd like the representatives of the clubs, do you have a need for consultation or should I take the right to adopt this as a follow-up? Thank you. We can't change anything here, so our decision is... Do we accept this report? Okay. Do you mind? Is he restrained? There isn't. So, I understand that we have accepted the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's report. Moving to the next item of the Ad.9 agenda. The proposal for a decision to supplement the Interim Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina The amendment, i.e. the amendment, is mainly about determining the competence of the working bodies. It's not about any fundamental change that could lead to confusion in procedures or, possibly, to say any disturbances in the rules of procedure that apply, but we would have some clarifications of the rules of procedure that are already in force. And secondly, I would ask, i.e., that you be asked by your representatives, or envoys, to pay a little more attention to the proposed Rules of Procedure, the Permanent Rules of Procedure, and to adopt it immediately after the summer break so that we can work normally, because there is no reason not to. I would also like to appeal to you, in the meantime, to consider more detailed proposals from the secretariats of this home, and this home would, in terms of the organisational scheme of future professional services, or, let me say, the accompanying services of both these houses of the BiH Parliament, in order to do that part of the work, so that this assembly, as far as possible, can function more normally. 10 Any requests? Any discussions on the amendments? Any suggestions? If not, I am voting on the amendment, i.e. the clarification of any work committee. Who's in? No one's against it. The abstention doesn't have anyone, this conclusion is unanimously adopted. The next point is filled, but not like in other homes, we're much less here, that's Ad.10. I call on the envoys who have questions to choose to do so from this pay phone. Mr. Dževad Mlaćo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the health and life of people, i.e. citizens should be really in the first place, and these days we very often hear that there are food products of suspicious quality on the market, from the aspect of health care, incorrect food products, however, if someone were to be poisoned or for some other reason damaged, there is no law that would be compensated. I think we are the only country in Europe that has no consumer protection laws. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers - what is the matter with this law and will it be, and when will the law be passed? Maybe someone will say that at the entity level there is something in that sense, well, when it comes to trade between entities, it's an internal thing, so it can't replace any of this consumer protection law, and in particular we intend to be in the Council of Europe as soon as possible, I don't think we can do it without this law in the Council of Europe. So my question is to the BiH Council of Ministers -- what about this law, where it got stuck in its preparation, and when will there be a proposal for this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u234	Thank you. Any more questions, please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u235	I will repeat the question, now in the name of the club, which Mr. Pero Mađar has asked, at one of the previous sessions, namely, when will this hall be arranged so that representatives can work in it normally? Namely, here, just before Mr. Silajdžić and fellow MPs spoke, I had to blame my neck here to look at the people who talk. So, this hall doesn't look like any other congregation halls, and I'm also going to ask the authorities, I don't know who, this high house, to determine exactly where the MPs are sitting, because just before the beginning of this session, a certain blonde came here and asked me to get up, I said that she was a session of the House of Peoples whose I am a member and that there's no need to get up. 11 The third question, since the standard in Bosnia and Herzegovina has been increased, and they have been reprisals for the same three years, I think they are inadequate for our work and for our participation, including the responsibilities that the people, which all three peoples, by five, have entrusted us with. I'm asking the Council of Ministers when the council of MPs will increase and the other rights of MPs?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u236	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Here you go, Mr. Hadžović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u237	Answer to the first question, about the arrangements of the hall and the seats. We have been working here in the Secretariat since 1 January of this year, however, before that date already the European Commission authorised funds and purchased existing furniture, we have had a suggestion in the European Commission that such tables and the deployment of MPs, or delegates, are not adequate for parliamentary work, but so far we do not have the funds. We're looking for another solution, and I expect that in the course of the month, we'll solve this problem for two days. The second question is about the numbering of your seats, if you want to, we can figure out where a delegate, or an MP, is sitting by the clubs. Thirdly, around the co-chairs, you have today adopted a decision to supplement the interim Rules of Procedure, where you have given responsibility, i.e. the section of the Administrative Commission of this House to decide on the rights of MPs and employees in the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u238	Thank you, Mr. Hadžović. Any more questions? I'm using the occasion, here you go, let's get it straight, that's better.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, it's quite accurate, we're one of the few countries in the world that doesn't have some law that protects consumers. No matter how much intensities in the world, such a kind of regulation is given the highest priority, immediately I say to you and to the Council of Ministers of BiH very quickly, that the law can bring it here, the form you want, given the standard of the European Union and other developed countries, to be a modern, good and quality law, the question of whether you are willing to accept such a law, so that no law, as well as a series of other laws, which, unfortunately, we end up on some long waiting list. Secondly, when it comes to protecting our citizens, we are trying to prevent certain products that do not meet world standards from coming here to BiH, not guaranteeing that the measure is only administrative and sufficient to protect our citizens. We do not have a number of institutions, nor the standards that the Western European Union is looking for, as well as other countries of the world, which is why, for now, I have to tell you, we are doing business with a number of important countries, in some temporary decisions. 12 As we are looking for consumer protection in Bosnia and Herzegovina, we also have another problem, in case our producer exports unhealthy food, and on this basis the appropriate institution from that country takes action against Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, there's one whole spectrum of legal measures and regulations that we'd have to make as soon as possible in the next period, without it, I'm going to tell you right now, there's no talking about joining the European Union. We do not have a veterinary authority, we are trying to do this because Europe and the world do not want to contact some local offices and others, but rather requires a disciplined procedure, that we regularly report to all relevant world institutions on the movement of all infectious diseases in animals, on all phytopathological findings, which in Bosnia and Herzegovina do not realize..., and that is the meaning of the reporting circumstances. Otherwise, we will not be allowed access to such markets. Hence, here is the opportunity, perhaps to appeal to you too, because we need the law, to accept that law, and if you give the task, we will very quickly do this law and deliver it here in an acceptable form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u240	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Who wants to talk? This was a question and an answer. So you answered, and we'll work on it. If there is a legal need, there isn't, you'll best determine, even though it's all right, we'll finish our part of the job. Now I would have one obligation to say a few words about this work so far, because I chaired. I think the cooperation between all of us here that we've been carrying this part of the job in the first place, the representatives of all three clubs, was extremely good, there were no problems, tolerance was high-level. I thank the clubs of the Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak people for their cooperation, primarily their colleagues Žigić and Ljubičić, thanks to representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, members of the BiH Presidency, representatives of the international community, means of information and all others who helped us make this work successful in the past period. I want Mr. Žigić to entertain himself with problems, to make him feel a little more uncomfortable on vacation than he didn't take the job, and to first increase his sheets by increasing his rating in the coming period. Thank you. Here you go and close the session. A p l a s
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-19-0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr. Šoljić for his ongoing leadership of this home and the cooperation he has shown in his work. At the same time, I would like this House to adopt its work programme in the next period, even in the second half of the calendar year, and, accordingly, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme and to try to do everything possible to make those 13 laws and those measures that need to be taken at the level of the state, in the work of this home, to meet by the end of the year at least what we can agree on. I hope that, at the end of this presidency, my successor, the gentleman of the Serb people Drago Ljubičić, will have far less to do and that all together at the end of the term will feel the satisfaction of doing a decent job and what is expected of us. Thank you very much. I am concluding the work of the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The session's finished at 3:00. End of sequel 6.
