ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2971	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 12th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. At today's session, in addition to MPs, members of the BiH presidency, co-chaired and chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Embassy's political department in BiH. As special guests, we invited Mr Piter Blocer, representative of the Political Affairs Committee of the Council of Europe and Mrs Anjeli Jattaamaki, representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Council of Europe. Representatives of public information funds were invited to attend the meeting. I especially welcome Mr. Blocer and Mrs. Jattaamaki and express my pleasure to have them at our session. I would also especially like to welcome Mr Robert Beri, head of the OSCE Mission to BiH. Thank you very much, highly esteemed gentlemen, for having responded to today's House of Representatives session. I think this is a great support for the BiH Parliament. According to the Secretariat's report, 30 deputies from the Federation of BiH 20 from RS 10 attend the session, we have a quorum for full-time decision-making. Mr Ivo Mijačević is absent for health reasons, the session's absence was announced by Miodrag Deretić, Branko Dokić, Ivo Divković and Safet Oručević. Mr Lagumdžija announced that he would be late for the session today because he is returning from his official trip. We have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. You've got the agenda. The agenda has been given to our distinguished guests. I'll tell you again on the agenda. 1. Verification of the mandate of the new Members of Parliament 2. General debate on BiH Election Bill Drafter Drago Ljubičić, delegate at House 3. General debate on BiH Election Law Draft, Proposer of SDP Club 4. Consideration of the BiH Refugee Law proposal and displaced persons in BiH 5. I would like to point out that the agenda has been unanimously agreed at the Kolegijum session and that the College does not have different opinions, therefore, that this is our agreed agenda proposal. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. 2
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2972	Chairman-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, esteemed guests, on behalf of the SDP Club, I would like to express my special satisfaction that the debate on BiH's most important law on BiH's election law is finally included in a certain way in the parliamentary procedure. The presence of a large number of foreign guests today and the importance of this law further convinces us that we must carry out the whole procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that we should not procedurally allow any anomalies in the work of this High Parliamentary House. In that context, I would like to point out on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club. The draft election law of BiH, which was proposed by Drago Ljubičić, a delegate in the House of Peoples and five MPs from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, was not previously discussed in any working body, not in any commission, which is a strict request from our Interim Rules of Procedure. A draft of BiH's electoral law, which is set out in the agenda, Drago Ljubičić, did not arrive in the form of an adequate Rules of Procedure in which Drago Ljubičić, indeed, signs the proposal. Yesterday, you had a statement here that justified the fact that the papers were coming from whom they were signed, and I, on behalf of the SDP Members' Club, want to point out that there is no act that Drago Ljubičić proposed this law. I think it has a very great meaning both legally and formally, if the MP has defined himself, there would have to be such an act. There is, however, from the Administrative Service a letter that reportedly Drago Ljubičić wishes to propose the law. Our third suggestion and observation is that the procedure should follow the proposed laws. The bill proposed by the SDP MPs' club, the Electoral Law, entered early in the parliamentary procedure and I see no reason to potentiate the anomaly in order, given the entry into parliamentary procedure. The fourth question is the Interim Rules of Procedure and the conclusions on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly do not know the term of the general debate on the draft law, but know the term of the debate on the draft law. I would like an clarification, in this respect, of the Constitutional Commission, so that we do not come into a special procedure that is not in line with what we stand for, which is an imperative of the action of the Council of Europe for the inclusion of BiH in the Council of Europe, which is to work in accordance with the procedures that this high house has brought. Without insisting on this, regardless of the further commitment of the House of Representatives, I request that these remarks enter as an integral part of the minutes of this session within the framework of the establishment of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2973	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, guests, fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to discuss putting on the agenda of these documents which are of fundamental importance for our country and after yesterday's adoption of the Work Programme of this House, I am, in the information about our obligations that we have set ourselves as a fundamental basis for the work of the House of Representatives, asked, I think for the tenth time a question when the Parliamentary House of BiH will receive a permanent Rules of Procedure. If we had 3 permanent Rules of Procedure which discusses the principles, relations and work of committees and working bodies, then there could be no misunderstanding or statements, which are entirely justified, by the representatives of the SDP. On the other hand, this procedure would mean that today, if we open a general debate, we must find ourselves in front of us, as a House of Representatives, except for information from television and from the press and opinion: 1. Council of Ministers of BiH 2. The BiH presidency we hear all three members have different opinions on this law 3. It is natural that as a home we cannot, without having our own opinion on ourselves, because we have made a commission to give us proposals, suggestions regarding the legal act So, on all three instances that preceded the debate at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH House of Representatives, we do not have a single procedural relationship politically, legally, normative as the Dayton Agreement and the provisional, underlining, Rules of Procedure, which implies a fundamental basis for the start of a good debate. They say, not for no reason, what is not done by any law or procedure and which does not comply with norms cannot be on the right path, it cannot end well. A poor start in this home would be that without written information from three BiH presidency members, without the BiH Council of Ministers' stance, without the Constitutional Commission today it is impossible to open only a general debate. Since I am inclined to respect this House of Representatives' every effort because it is the primary home of MPs and representatives of citizens, I have also been committed, and I have repeatedly warned, that the proposal of the MPs of the SDP and, in this case, of Mr Draga, must be discussed on the bodies to which they are addressed, and this is the Constitutional Commission in order to represent us in order to be able to talk about it. We must have respect for ourselves so that we can respect the decisions we will make later. Formally legally my proposal consists of two directions. I received, as well as most of the presidents of political parties and coalitions and independent MPs, Mr Beri's call for a debate that will be 12, it seems to me, in connection with the electoral law proposed by the OSCE and which found form through MPs to provide legalisation and respect for parliament itself. I think it is quite justified, too, that at this point, while Mr Moris is on his way to Dayton, and we had one conversation, one consultation on both laws two or three days ago in this same room with political parties, that it was correct that political parties organised as parties or as coalitions or as independent MPs, have the opportunity to make known about these laws. When it came to DGS, we had a congregation in which we said certain questions about these laws. I can't understand that it can enter into a procedure of parliamentary something that they didn't have the opportunity to see in the original meaning and with the comments we got, the political parties represented by these people.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2974	I apologize, the position of the Kolegijum is that this is a debate on the agenda. 4
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2975	I propose that Mr Beri, since he is here with us and he carries this job in the OSCE, and I would really like to give him credit both to the whole team and to Morison who have worked on this great task which is the basis for the future of BiH and a group of MPs who have accepted the proposal, or the SDP, to give today in the procedure to get today, if the House of Representatives agree, the information on the starting points in relation to these two proposals, would agree to this, and that the debate should be followed by our Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Democracy, which, as far as I can see, Mr Beri, SDP and the MP who accepted to play this role for the OSCE and for all of us, too, should be highly respected and on this basis should be given good information with the presence of the representatives of the Council of Europe, and continue his work in the dynamics proposed by Mr Beri, respectively, which was proposed by the SDP Club of Memberss.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2976	You'll get a chance, MP, to talk when the point is adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2977	I suggest that there be no point of general discussion, but information from gentlemen who have submitted two proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2978	Thank you, the information means the law, the bill's proposals. poslanik Silajdžić is giving up the debate. I'm asking you just one brief notice, I'll tell you right away. The legal term for this kind of debate, the debate in principle, you know it well, and we agreed here at the College on how to put the title, if you're already asking us for a legal term it's called. The objection is to formulate the point, there is an objection as to what is called a point, the objection of the MPs is so. It has been said that no messengers have been informed. Here stands my signature, and I am not a clerk, I am in, at least, an MP, that I have informed who is the legislator and when it is proposed and all the MPs have been delivered and please nicely, if you have not received this letter, it is something else, and if you have received it, please respect me as much as I respect you. The debate is only on agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2979	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I have simply volunteered to support this agenda and I believe that we have enough formal-legal elements to hold this debate. I think, too, that we got all the paperwork from seven to ten days ago and that on the basis of such a documentary basis we could conduct a debate in principle. I wanted to correct only this part of the agenda, so it's a debate in principle, as defined by the Rules of Procedure, not a general debate, because it's not defined there. I'd really pray that we don't have every session to have long debates about the agenda. We have a lot of work to do today, and I would like to express a special satisfaction, because the Law of Election must surely pass 5 a longer discussion of public and citizens, scientific circles, authorities, parties, etc., therefore, it is time for the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to open this debate and send for a wider public debate to reach those deadlines that we have foreseen to adopt. BiH elections law because it is one of the fundamental laws of BiH. That's why I support this agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2980	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2981	Dear MPs, esteemed guests, Respecting all this that has been said so far, I have a proposal to take points 2 and 3 of the Unity and to consider the draft draft election law, in one point to be.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2982	Thank you, Ambassador Malkić
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2983	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, distinguished colleagues, I have a proposal, given that the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons was needed as long as it was yesterday to be a part of agenda number two, and that the laws that are general debates of drafts and proposals were 3rd and 4th, respecting whatever we formulate the name of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2984	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2985	Dear Presidency, esteemed guests, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am sorry that we have come into a situation like this that probably in one valid or adequate way we will not start a fundamental debate on such an important legal project as the BiH Election Law. We've come into an awkward situation to have two points of the agenda on the same legal project. What happens if we pass two laws, there's that possibility. Come on, please, let's get serious and just try to get out of this trap or postpone one legal project for the next session. Which of the MPs is in a situation today to make amendments or discussions in principle to one law, and to another legal project related to the same problem. Perhaps it would be good if one part of the legal project, I would not be disdainful of any proposal, was made in the light of the amendments to the proposal of a single project. We've come into a very strange situation. We have a draft electoral law drawn up with the help of representatives of the international community, the Office of the High Representative and the OHR and we have a proposal from the Party of Independent Social Democrats of BiH. I would ask you to tell me how we think we're going to get out of this trap that we set ourselves. We had our first problem with the preamble of the Election Law offered by representatives of the international community, now we know that 6 preambles are called Drago Ljubičić, and that is possible, there is no problem, and that today we agree on what proposal we are discussing to get out of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2986	Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2987	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, the Constitutional Commission has not considered any other electoral law that has come to parliament and has not considered the Law on Refugee Persons from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. The fact that the Constitutional Commission has not debated or taken a stand on any of these laws is because, from that aspect, it gives a certain dispute to set the agenda before the constitutional commission of this home is declared. That's one thing. Secondly, I believe that the maximum debate is at this point which can go towards establishing the agenda to accept Mrs Havel's proposal so that it is one point in the agenda with two points, but I add by the time the law arrives in the parliamentary procedure. For this point to be a debate in principle, i.e. information on these laws and 3. If the College were to lead the session by opening an opportunity for information and questions, but by making it mandatory to schedule a new session of the House of Representatives to discuss draft electoral laws, and in the meantime, the Constitutional Legal Commission would declare them, and, as Mr Spahić and the BiH Council of Ministers, or the BiH Presidency, would ask them to make their comments. That would be one, I think, a correct way out of this situation today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2988	For your knowledge, I must tell you that the letter asking for opinions from both the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers has not arrived today. If it had arrived, you would have been informed. You know, who attended, and the members of the colleges of both homes attended with Mr. Beri, the ambassador, when we were informed that neither the Council of Ministers of BiH nor the BiH Presidency accepted to be proposing. I think that's one piece of information you need to be familiar with. Let me just say about Mr. Kadić's proposal that the College is unanimous to bring two points of the agenda together into one and the 3rd, and to bear the title of the debate in the principle of proposals for draft electoral laws, I said in plural. Our position is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2989	Since the BiH Council of Ministers has been mentioned, I am now speaking as the BiH Council of Ministers' chairman. The draft of this law has been moved to the BiH Council of Ministers for the past 7th session of the BiH Council of Ministers and we have committed ourselves, as members of the BiH Council, to deliver each of our opinions in writing on this draft. Secondly, when I'm out, let me say that we can't vote on whether or not to respect the order in which the proposal came, but to respect it. 3. We would do well to enter into a fundamental debate today because of the presence of Mr. Beri and Mr. Blecer and the people of the WE, because I don't think, not entering a fundamental debate, that our law needs to be brought into line with the normal standards of European conventions and WE CAN help us to make a real historic step like we did yesterday, we made a real historic step yesterday, asking unanimously that we have the law of the institution, and this is our second chance to bring the Election Law into line with other European electoral laws, and that is why we have the precious presence of Mr. Beri, Mr. Blecer and Mrs here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2990	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2991	Ladies and gentlemen, right on the way to what Mr. Silajdžić was talking about to take advantage of the presence of distinguished gentlemen and to discuss the bill we've been waiting so long for. Don't try to obstruct legal solutions with a skillful game. I demand that today we discuss only one legal project that we have received through the OSCE and OHR in the parliamentary procedure and we must show ourselves today, when the international community needs you, where you are, the International Community, and when someone thinks that something is wrong, then we will play a variety of obstructions. Let us discuss this proposal today and schedule the next session of Parliament to discuss another legislative project. It's really unserious to formulate it as one point with two points that define the same matter. I ask you, here, I propose that we go to the vote today to discuss the principle of the legislative project that we have received in addition to the procedure that has been explained by the chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. If gentlemen had been of the majority will to discuss the proposed legislative project by the Social Democrats, the debate would have been over by now. What happened? Representatives of political life within BiH think that legal solutions have been offered to help the international community worse by certain political... than what the Social Democrats offer, there is a trap. Let's discuss the legal project we have on the table and take down a legal project to get into the fundamental debate Mr Silajdžić was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2992	I must now bring this part of the debate to an end, that we go to work concretely. I want to inform you that as chairman, I was not informed that the first law of the SDP had come, but at the session when we discussed this law, I spoke to Mr. Beri, only then heard the rumor that there was another proposal, I must say, under full responsibility, this is what I am talking about, and don't ask me, because that's why the agenda looks like it. Where's the mistake, where's that, don't ask me. I, under full responsibility, stand behind what I say. I accept, if you're going to intervene, I accept that he came before, I have nothing to change the order, I just want to say what's true. I don't mind changing the order. 8 We now have a number of proposals here, and I suggest that we vote first on the Kolegijum proposal, which is unanimously agreed, and we go in line. The college proposal reads: 1. Verification of the mandate of the new Members of Parliament 2. Debate in principle on draft electoral laws 3. Discuss BiH's Proposal for a Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons 4. MPs' questions This is the College unanimously, only merged these two points 2 and 3, we have accepted the remarks of Mrs Havel and some other MPs to combine those two points and that is the position of the Kolegijum. Six. Discussing the principle of draft electoral laws, You want me to tell you which one of the representatives of Drago Ljubičić and the SDP MPs' Club. How many of the Secretaries are present in the hall. 28 Thank you very much, 28 present. /PAUSE/ Dear guests, I suggest we continue our work, I ask MP Špirić to deliver an opinion on behalf of the MPs' Club, which is why he asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2994	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, I can say for myself, it is impossible to discuss in parallel two legislative projects that treat the same problem, that it is impossible to conduct a quality debate and that is why I was inclined to take advantage of today the presence of Mr Beri, the OSCE representative and the international community representatives to discuss today the proposal we had and to discuss this second legislative project at the next meeting of the Representative Council. But I will have my position as an MP, and I will respect the position of the majority of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as far as I am concerned, the voting procedure should be carried out. Thank you. Gentlemen, since the debate on the agenda has been concluded, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda, which was unanimously established by the College. How many MPs are there? 29 In Hall 29. Once again, I read you a draft agenda so that you know, to be sure of what you voted for. 9-1. Verification of the mandate of the new Members of Parliament 2. Discussing the principle of draft electoral laws, promoter Drago Ljubičić and SDP Club 3. Consideration of the BiH Refugee Law proposal and displaced persons in Bosnia and Herzegovina 4. I'm asking you questions, "Who's in favour of this kind of agenda?" 26 of those present, 31 are in the O.R. Who's against it? 1 4 abstentions do we have any objections to the course of the vote. You don't. By entities, who is from the RS for this agenda proposal? 7 has the majority of the Federation of BiH, 19. Thank you very much, there's a most needed majority. I find that the following agenda has been adopted: 1. Verification of the mandate of the new Members of Parliament 2. Discussing the principle of draft electoral laws, promoter Drago Ljubičić and SDP Club 3. Discussion of the BiH Refugee Law Proposal and displaced persons in BiH 4. MPs' questions Please moliti the sekretarijat to immediately extract the integral text of the agenda and share it with the MPs. Thank you very much, we're moving on to Ad. 1. Verification of the mandate of the new MPs, gentlemen, has been informed by the OSCE Office that the following MPs have submitted, received, in fact, consent to resignations and these are MPs Jadranko Prlić and Neven Tomić. I don't think I need to read you those resignations. I read, Your Honor, Mr Banjac, I would like to inform you that the Interim Election Commission approved the resignation of Mr Jadrank Prlić, a member of the Parliamentary House of BiH. In accordance with the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, the Interim Election Commission has determined that Mr Mirko Bakočević is the next qualified candidate, Pardon Baković, the next qualified candidate from the HDZ list for the Parliamentary House of BiH, Mr Mirko Baković, has been informed of his appointment. I didn't get it, I just got the letter. I resigned, the resignation was not sent to the College of the House of Representatives or to me personally, but to the Interim Election Commission of the OSCE. So, I don't have that. He's got a living witness. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2996	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, to this day's colleague, you know that in the eighth month after this speaker, I said that, by respecting the HDZ Presidency's conclusions on the separation of the executive authority and the legislative authority, I had chosen to remain in the BiH Council of Ministers and to resign as MPs. I am personally sorry that the process lasted two months, so for my principled reasons HDZ has been denied by one vote in Parliament for these two months, however, I am taking this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation as a fellow representative so far, and I hope that we will spend another part of our time in relation to the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2997	Let me finish and I'll give you my word. I'm telling you that we have the commission's position, the verification committee. On the basis of Article 5(3) of the Interim Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the Working Committee on the Verification of the PSBiH House of Representatives, composed of Alma Čolo, Nikola Špirić and Ivo Divković, submits the following report to the House of Representatives. The Committee on Verification found this: 1. that MPs Neven Tomić and Jadranko Prlić resigned to the Interim Election Commission as MPs and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives 2. That the Interim Election Commission, based on the rules and regulations of the Interim Election Commission, has approved the resignations of MPs Neven Tomić and Jadrank Prlić, and has found that Mrs Mikulić Anita and Mr Mirko Baković are the next qualified candidates from the HDZ list for MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Based on the above, the Committee on Verification proposes the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to verify the mandate of Mrs Anita Mikulić and Mr Mirko Baković for MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. We have in the O.R., how many MPs, the sekretarijat? If it's not about anything, then I'll challenge it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2998	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I insisted on the reasons for the resignations of these fellow MPs, for the reason that in March of the month we had a debate at the House of Representatives and the conclusions we discussed the incompatibility of executive and legislative functions. You remember how much trouble there was, let's say, when Mr Prlić, Neven Tomić, and especially Mr Silajdžić makes remarks to Parliament and turns out to speak to himself or vote for their trust, choose themselves, propose laws, etc., and I, on behalf of the SDP, welcome this act but at the same time use, pray that it is recorded, that 11 we see why this process has not been carried out consistently, since we still have a member of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the current co-chair, while at the same time a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. the House of Representatives, here, just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u2999	In the hall we have 31 present, I ask who is for the verification of the mandates of Mrs Anita Mikulić and Mr Mirko Baković? - 26 - Who's against it? - Not against it. - Abstained 5 per entity, from RS, who's in favour? 11, there's a required majority. From Federation of BiH 19. Thank you very much. I find that the mandates of Mrs Anita Mikulić and Mr Mirko Baković have been verified. I ask the newly elected Members to join in giving a solemn statement. Please come here and I ask the messengers to rise. Here you go. I ask you to repeat after me the next text in your language. I pledge to carry out the duties assigned to me knowingly. That I will support and defend the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that I will fully implement the Peace Agreement, promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. Thank you very much. I congratulate you on behalf of the Kolegijum and wish you successful work. I want a lot of success in the functions where they stay, and I think that, let me say, they've done one moral act by separating functions, and I especially congratulate them and thank them for it. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda and move to the second item of the agenda. Ad.2. The debate in the principle of draft electoral laws, proposed by Drago Ljubičić and SDP MPs' Club, will be conducted in principle, gentlemen, as I have stated. The draft electoral law of Drago Ljubičić, followed by the draft of the SDP election law, will be discussed first. I ask the person in charge of the motionor or the motionor to take the floor, I mean the draft proposed by Ambassador Ljubičić. While preparing, as MP Ljubičić comes out, I would like to inform you that this debate is in principle, that you can ask questions, ask explanations, do not think about any amendment, but simply about suggestions that could be useful to the Constitutional Commission when it takes its stand on these proposals, according to these drafts. Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3000	Dear Presidency, Mr Ambassadors, gentlemen of the Council of Europe, representatives of the international community, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a brief explanation and I think that this is my obligation before you, before the Council of Representatives, I think that I will be in this role and tomorrow at the Council of People's meeting, to give an explanation that I have appeared in the role of the legislator of this election law, a very important document, of a very important law. I have no intention of talking about the law, and I believe that you, too, deserve to get an explanation, because I had the opportunity to attend two round tables that were organised for this draft and these round tables just came up with this question, justifiably, because it was pointed to a part of something missing from this bill, which is the name and name of the promoter and the explanation. I will try to give a brief explanation today that I have appeared in the role of the promoter, and I hope that you and the delegates in the Council of Nations will also get written material, what is justifiably asked the question of preambles and reasoning, that this law will be fully completed and that those formal questions that I do not want to comment on, because people are reading the Rules of Procedure, asking questions within the framework of MPs, and I do not want to argue at all, so we will also try to supplement that. On the 21st 10th session of both Council colleges, meaning the Representative Council and the Council of the People, we had the honor to talk to Ambassador and Mr. Beri about the law, it was the first conversation of the law that we had received seven days earlier from Mr. Beri, which means we had the opportunity and opportunity to read the law, and as members of the College, we were given the chance to make that meeting and talk to Mr. Beri, in the end and get Mr. Beri's explanation, to point out, at that first meeting, our opinions, any objections to the draft law that we received. In my view, this debate at the College was quite high quality, in the end, it was confirmed here today in one part, that means previous discussion of this law. I could see, too, part of those remarks on both the one and the other round table I attended, where it was led, on a certain level, a debate on these laws, that is, this law. Let me go back to this question of how I appeared in the role of the promoter. The session opened the very issue and the problem, meaning the name of the proponents so that the law could be introduced in a parliamentary debate. Not to be too long, we had an interpretation from the temporary secretary of Parliament who may appear in the role of the promoter. I will repeat what is known to everyone that in the role of the legislator, the Council of Ministers of BiH can appear, the BiH presidency may appear, a group of MPs or a parliamentary group may appear and an MP or delegate may appear, meaning, in the capacity of the promoter. I had an honest intention at that session of the College, as a debate opened and a problem how to meet that condition now and to meet the very basic procedural and formal legal basis, so that the law could enter the parliamentary procedure. I had a sincere intention to resolve this immediately, knowing us as we are, and very difficult to agree on many issues and that it would not turn out to be a very important document and a very important law where we are and the obligation is and I hope that it is clear to all of us to adopt it, taking into account, normally, the process of BiH's admission into WE, that it is one of the 13 laws that is, meaning, and put into knowledge as an obligation to adopt it. Respecting the deadlines that Mr Beri pointed out to us that by the beginning of February this law should be passed, to pass, meaning, both public debate and debate in Parliament, so that the general parliamentary elections that were scheduled and planned for September 2000 could be carried out, not to speak any further. There are enough facts and reasons for whoever led me in my proposal to propose to the College to take on the role. I'm going back to what I just said, based on the MPs, the College, as a body, can't be a proposer. It is proposed by the present that I use my delegate's right to assume the role of the promoter. I did it, and here's a brief explanation for how I appeared in the position of the promoter. I think you're going to support it and accept it and I don't think there's any further than this to comment on or waste time right now, about what's missing in this bill when it comes to the promoter, etc. What is missing, I think we have the opportunity to complement it to be completed and so complete, I think there is a need and it is more useful to devote more time to the debate in this House, it is an opportunity for all MPs and delegates in the House of Nations to give their opinion on this material that we have received, with their proposals, with their amendments. If they feel that this law, or draft, can be improved, it is an opportunity through this debate. As for the interpretation of this law today, I do not want to take that role today, so, with full respect for gentlemen, so, headed by Mr. Beri and his office, with full respect for the BiH-level task force, which has worked on this law, the OSCE offices and the OHR offices where we have the part today, so to speak, will not be angry with a number of members of the working group working on this law, they are here today and I suggest that any questions today in the context of this debate and the adoption of the agenda, in which way this law will be held, let them take that role.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3001	We heard of the prime minister, Ambassador Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3002	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Your Excellency Beri, Mr. Blecer, gentlemen of the Council of Europe, it has been a pleasure to hear yesterday's presentation of the Members of Finland and her experience regarding democratic processes in Finland. I am pleased that Finland is today the chairman of Europe and is leading a process of stabilisation, democratisation and peace on our continent. I believe deeply that the principles of democratic, parliamentary democracy, democratic positions of every parliament, including the BiH Parliament, its legislative bodies, as they concern these elections, will be so implemented under the electoral law that we will first adopt ourselves, and will not be delivered to us as a decision or a high representative law. Secondly, that this will we show by February will confirm our political will by the highest law after the Constitution, that we can be full members of the CoE. I would like to say that I am giving special recognition to the OSCE and the Interim Election Commission, which has done everything since '96. To this day, to help democratisation of life in BiH, to express the will of the citizens of BiH and to protect the rights of all citizens and of all peoples and of all minorities in our country, that they can, as said in the first general provisions, because the debate is in principle 141 that everyone has the right, it is... Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms of Article 21 to participate in the management of its country directly or through free elected representatives; 2. that everyone has the same right to access public services in his country; 3. that the will of the people is the basis of the authority of the government. This will is expressed by periodic fair elections that are universal with equal voting rights and are held by a secret vote or an ec. voting procedures. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a member of the UN organisation. BiH has joined and entered the UN by admitting, ratified by this act its will to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, because it is a fundamental act, on the other hand, the world community, receiving BiH, has also committed itself to respecting these three fundamental, universal rights in BiH, when it comes to political rights. What the proposal offers, i.e., the bill that we received today from Mr Drago, MPs, in the procedure and which brings us into the debate on this document. 1. The fact is that this document allows the debate to be parliamentary and allows a single text to be finally objected to, remarks, proposals, amendments to get to the law itself, it is already huge compared to what was four years behind us, after the Dayton Peace Agreement. This is the first document that actually defines the position of the citizens of BiH and the equality of all people, regardless of which nations, religions and what political beliefs they have and, of course, which are... whether they are men or women and what they belong to is the right of the universal declaration of human rights and freedoms. As such, it is natural that the OSCE did it, because it is an organization that has built roads to make changes in Europe and the fall of the Berlin Wall and the construction of a new Europe. It's an organization that has special responsibility today in transition societies. In order for any transition or any process that is more painless and our world of Bosnian Herzegovina, citizens, this country, this society, to establish rules of play in which there will be a basis for every society, it is the Electoral Law for Parliamentary Democracy. This means that there will be a question on the agenda of the separation of executive, legislative authorities, prosecutors and all the principles that will arise from the adoption of such a law and will not be able to happen, which is happening today in the reality of BiH, four years after Dejton and ten years after the first general elections, after the 1990s. with all the war experiences. I would like, relying on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms, to draw attention to a number of issues raised by this law, with full support for the fact that we started this process today. When it comes to parliaments both local and other levels, all the way to the BiH Parliament, I would like to draw attention that it is necessary to show that the shift is huge in this proposal, in the bill of law, which forms a relationship between MPs and the voting body, this should be strongly supported. To define the position of the voter and to know who answers, who chooses whom. Based on what relationship between MPs and the electoral body, it is possible to build a principle that is most important for parliamentary democracy, the principle of responsibility for a particular environment, for concrete voters, for people behind who they represent. In particular, this applies to the House of Representatives, the House of Representatives, because it is the home of the citizens of BiH and, in that 15 sense, I support the solutions given here in relation to so-called. the election base to be formed by this proposal, i.e. the draft. When it comes to open lists, since the GDS BiH has supported and given the principle of freedom of choice, which will be combined with the respect of political parties, programmes and their performances, but the freedom of choice from the list and the destruction of the established nomenclature offered by the parties, it is a democratic experience which is combined and which we have in Europe and the world with the will of the party and the will of the voters, I consider it a great proposal, a significant proposal for an open list and an opportunity for voters to establish parliamentary democracy, after responsibility, that is trust. Trust in a person with a name and a last name that carries a public function and all the consequences of it. These are two serious shifts in relation to our practice and the life we have been living in the last ten years, not to the origarchy of political, not to the authorities out of the will of the citizens and the people, and in accordance with the UN Universal Rights Declaration. The third thing I want to support is a solution relating to a principle that should ensure that the choice at all levels of parliaments, whether it be the municipal councils, whether it be some other structures of government such as cantons, entities, regions, and I don't know what it's going to be called and what it's called. What I'm saying is that what's been offered here, in terms of action and rules relating to parties, independent candidates and coalitions, will give a double chance, firstly, to give the third term a chance and, on the one hand, to the voters, on the other hand to the elected. Except for responsibility, other than trust, there's something called competence. On this basis, parliaments in BiH will have to build a competent relationship between what is an MP, what is its action and what is, in fact, the essence of parliamentary democracy, to gather there responsibly, competently and with full confidence, that choice of citizens and people who correspond to the interests of society, so that the state and executive bodies become a service of parliament, but a service in a positive way, in order to be accountable to parliament, by definition, and not by political will. In order for it to be an honor to serve its people and their citizens and to answer to their parliament, not to question vanity and positions in the nomenclature, etc. This is what I mean by important, responsibility, trust, competence which produces legislative, executive power, judicial authority and prosecution completely separate in their functions and under the full control of those who choose their representatives, I find it valuable and significant. Now about the Universal Declaration that I quoted at the outset. If everyone has the right to participate in the management of their country, directly or through the freely elected representatives, and if everyone has the same right to access public services in their country, and if the will of the people is the basis of the authority of this government and any authority, then I would like to ask three questions and ask the answers, or I simply want to record them in further debate. 1. When it comes to the election of members of the BiH presidency. The way it's proposed here is limited by the existing Dayton Constitution. There is a request in the procedure at the BiH Constitutional Court, a discussion on constitutionality, but there is one problem that I am constantly concerned about how that principle applies to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms and how we will really protect this right that everyone has the same right to access public services in this country, if this country is, in this way and with these constitutional solutions, a prisoner of the Dayton solution as it is set up here. How will this 16 ideal democracy, by the Constitutional Court which will make a decision in relation to this request, by the relationship and approach in which the Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin will certainly be sure that these are authentic representatives who will be able to guarantee the protection of equality, either through the House of Peoples, whether through the Presidency and other forums, but, of course, how to provide the universal rights of man to be chosen, Roma, for example, which everyone is talking about. For example. Mr. Fišer says, other ministers, so he says, you know, Europe without borders, and the Rom are natural residents and I allow myself to mistake the foreign minister, but the saying is quite certain from the miles of political belief that people, however, do not have equal rights, when the principle of the Universal Declaration is laid out and when the principle of choice is set out that every public service is available to every citizen. In this regard, we had a good experience, I deliberately led Finland with Mrs. Elizabet Ren, who belonged to a Šveđanin community in Finland that had a good career, brilliant and domestic and international. I'd like to warn you of one fact. Of course, this issue is also being asked about us who are in the House of Peoples, which is what we are in the House of Representatives, in the BiH Parliament, as it is being asked. It simply sets out that from the same principle that you implement in the principles and which you have in the principles of the Declaration, in the European Charter of Human Rights, in a series of conventions that are part of the Dayton Peace Agreement. You have one principle we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3003	Mr. MP...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3004	I'm done. I'd like to ask that question because I think it takes two things to do. The first question is... The presidency, and I would like to ask if there is, according to the assessments of the gentlemen of the Council of Europe, Mr Beri, above all, the answer to that question, how can we get people in BiH to feel that they are equal, regardless of which nations, which religions, which policies and which... Secondly, I would also like to get an answer as to whether it is possible to build a principle that would allow this law to really be harmonised and, as I say, passed and implemented. That is why I ask the question, is it possible for us to open up here as MPs to debate but principled, on the harmonisation of entity constitutions with the BiH Constitution, which will allow this law to truly ensure a legal system in BiH. Finally, I would like to ask you to comment on the relationship between people who are in a position of displaced persons, refugees in the country and the world, given the famous pattern P2. and thus provide a transparent public information which today has the right to monitor with interest the launch of this debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3005	Thank you very much, you had two questions number three, but we'll deal with that. 17
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3006	Dear guests, fellow MPs, I want first one small replica of my dear colleague Ibro in a sentence that he said among his last sentences, he said that people are equal and I would just add, people are really equal, until most of them revote them, unfortunately, that's the reality of BiH which I hope this law will prevent so that we remain truly equal. I would ask the chairman, although this is a debate in principle, to spare us, however, some lectures of extensive ones that are even out of the agenda. Third, I would like to ask or say, in Article 1, that this law regulates the election of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, members of the BiH presidency, and lays down the principles applicable to elections at all levels of government in BiH. I'm asking if this last part of the sentence can be left out, because, in my opinion, it's not just mine, it's out of the Constitution. As much as we liked it or didn't like it, we probably don't like the Dayton Constitution of BiH, it's a reality, and it has to come from it. Whether in ten years or 20 someone will agree that it is revised, I do not want to go into it, but now the Dayton Constitution is as it is and as far as I can interpret it, instead of this second part of the sentence, there is nothing standing there and there is an end to the sentence, and that entities must adopt their electoral laws at the same time and that they must comply with the BiH Election Law. I think that would solve what this sentence has tried, and the law itself has been done. I still have a lot of questions and objections, but I don't want to just talk about the law, leave it to my other fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3007	Thank you very much for your efficiency in the lady's debate, Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3008	I would like to say that I fully agree with the lady, it is necessary to protect every citizen, every nation, every minority, no matter what form and no terror of the minority over most, most of the minority does not come into consideration either in the Constitution or in any...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3009	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3010	Gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed guests, fellow MPs, we today are ahead of us, I can responsibly say, for the first time since this parliament was established, we have one of the most significant documents in BiH. I think this is one of the ways we need to do the papers, how we need to conduct the debate to get to one final solution. To speak particularly of the importance of this document can be very much, but it must be said that it is unacceptable that from the signing of the Dayton Agreement to today, we will conduct the elections in April according to the provisional rules. It is therefore time to bring in one document that will be the generator of 18 democracies and a stability generator in BiH. That is why I think it is good and that we have enough time for a democratic debate to be held both with citizens and with political parties, with authorities, scientific and professional workers, and that on the basis of the document offered by the OSCE, we have a good framework for a stable law that will be valid for a long time. Since counterpart Spahić spoke widely of human rights and other elements, I would not repeat it, but I would like to point only to a few principles to be taken into account in the BiH state, which is very complex, in which the overall political situation is very sensitive and where, on the basis of one legal or, I say, constitutional security must build everything sensitive and this law too. That's why I think a few principles must be governed by this law. It must be based on the BiH Constitution. It should be defined on the basis of BiH's organisational structure. It should define in detail, to the end, the choice of BiH authorities. It should define election principles at lower levels, not norms. It should define the clear bringing down of election results and that there can be no manipulation. The constitutional role of entities, cantons, municipalities, as well as their competences and must be taken into account, we have spent a lot of time and in discussions, clearly define the right to vote and the right to run. I don't want to talk about other principles that are defined in this law, but I think these are some of the principles that are most sensitive at this point and where we really need to put those principles out specifically. That is why I support this law to go to a public debate and I propose that the bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly organise certain public debates and other bodies so that we can invest in the next session, not at the next assembly, but at the meeting, when we conclude that we need to discuss the Draft, to make quality investments in amendments and to agree clearly on what the citizens of BiH need.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3011	Thank you very much. The word has an MP called Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3012	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, gentlemen of the international community, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to point out immediately that, as a representative representing the HDZ, which received the most Croatian electoral body in BiH, I would say that we must adopt this election law of BiH as soon as possible, as well as the electoral laws of the entity. I would like to conclude that, and what is fundamental, this electoral law must be, dear gentlemen, in accordance with the BiH Constitution. I have sworn an oath here, and you are all, in which we have made it clear that we are obliged to protect the Dayton Constitution of the BiH state. I would say immediately here that many of the provisions, many norms, rules set out in this draft, are not in line with the BiH Constitution, and at the same time with the entity's constitution. According to the BiH Constitution, it is clear that the Constitution is the highest legal act in one state, and it must have been known by a working group that I don't know how it was formed, as far as I know, this high house had no stake in it. According to the BiH Constitution, it is clearly defined that the BiH state, in connection with electoral legislation, has the power to, in the BiH Election Law, put in place rules to regulate the choice of representatives in this high house, 19 or the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives and the election of members of the BiH presidency. This is another attempt, I would say, the centralization and unitaryization of this country, clearly, is difficult for such a system in this country to exist. When drawing up this Electoral Law, or Draft, dear gentlemen, three wills, three peoples, three interests must be taken into account. I will be free to say that here it has been considered, mainly two wills, while the will of the most few Croatian people in BiH has not been taken into account, because the key provisions of this draft, in particular which speak about the election of members of the BiH presidency, are clearly against the interest of the Croatian people in BiH, i.e. cannot be ensured, i.e. to guarantee the consistency and the Croatian people in the country, I stress the state of BiH. Always three wills. As for these provisions that regulate the election of members of the BiH presidency, I will not enter into details, this is an eclectic example of a violation of the BiH Constitution. It's very simple to see, it's not constitutional doubt, it doesn't need the Constitutional Court to manifest itself, and it's very clearly written, precisely said, the preferential system is against the Constitution, some kind of vote adding, adding, the voter has only the right to vote for one man in the BiH presidency. Just for one man. No other voice-addition, this and that. It is clear that it is against the interests of the fewest people in BiH, again, I stress, we must take care of the highest legal act in this country, which is the Dayton Constitution of BiH. By the way, let me say about the constitutionality that lies before the Constitutional Court, so that, dear gentlemen, is the new political agreement between the legitimate representatives of the three constituent peoples in BiH. There's no selameta from the charge. There is no imposition in this country, and here legitimate representatives of the three nations need to agree on this most important legal act, the most important law in the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3013	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we will respect these traditions and moods, in the second part of this debate to present our draft electoral law, allow me to use this debate in principle and to say six views concerning the proposal of the law of my colleague, Drago Ljubičić. I would support all those who welcome the fact that we have in the parliamentary procedure this Electoral Law, or that we will have it, because this is a debate in principle and, in a certain way, I would like to point out that with this inadmissible amount of delay, because the Dayton Peace Agreement has already been violated and several elections have been organised against the Dayton Peace Agreement, because the Dayton Peace Agreement clearly speaks of only the '96 elections. could organize under temporary election rules. We have a violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement due to these delays, and this is the responsibility of BiH authorities, but its responsibility cannot cover up even an international community that has clear authority in the area. There have been more violations of the Dayton Peace Accords, but we are in favour of such solutions that we do not commit any violations of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the BiH Constitution in drawing up this law. Before I move on to these six regrets, I would like to welcome the solutions that Drago Ljubičić and his expert group gave a great deal in the area of finance, media, open lists and transparency of campaign financing, Mr Ljubičić, are really good solutions, it seems that there has been a lot of effort, probably making this draft election law cost you a lot, because it had to be done, but on another occasion. 20 Now, after these commendations, I would point out six, in my opinion, important remarks that I make personally, and in good part also in the name of the SDP, and they concern: 1. Mr. Ljubičić, unfortunately, the principles and demands of the Madrid Declaration have not been met by this Electoral Law, I would point only two out for the draft of the electoral law. One requirement is to affirm multiethnicity, another requirement is to establish the responsibility of politicians in BiH's central institutions towards the peoples, all peoples and citizens, no matter where they live in BiH, this is not resolved here. There are attempts, through the few thousand signatures, when registering members of the BiH presidency or, however, by supporting municipal councils, by a number of municipal councils, but it is cartoonal because it will not cause the responsibility of politicians to, when they discuss this speaker, take care of interests both Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak and all citizens of BiH, no matter where they live. We need that kind of behavior and that kind of action. It is, in my opinion, an important observation to your text of the draft electoral law. 2. The absolute opposite of the European Convention on Human Rights, and I would say a few really dramatic moments here, taking the opportunity to have the esteemed representatives of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, institutions that have affirmed themselves in the world in the fight against... A few years ago, a boycott was organised, isolation, pressure on the South African Republic for not allowing black people to have active and passive voting rights, it is absolutely fine, but you must answer why now in the new draft of the Election Law, in a certain way, as I understand it, in the statements of international representatives, you are supporting the solutions of Drago Ljubičić that blacks are de facto declared "all Bošnjak and Hrvat in RS and all Srbin living in the Federation of BiH and all those in BiH who are neither Srbin nor Hrvat nor Bošnjak, but are Jevrej, Rom, Bosanac or members of any other ethnicity". Such solutions, if anyone tries to adopt, will bring down every international court on human rights. It will bring down the BiH Constitutional Court, because, please, Article 2. The BiH Constitution says "the rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocols will be directly applied in BiH", here it will have absolute priority over all other laws. Let's not pass a law that will be against the BiH Constitution. I remind you, gentlemen, that a few years ago, in another place, the same in the parliamentary council, I also warned the representatives of the international community not to pass the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the parliamentary majority to warn them not to pass an anti-constitutional law. It was brought and now we have a few years later a court epilogue that it is against the BiH Constitution. We can't make that mistake again, Mr. Ljubičić, and I expect you to make this right anyway. 30% of citizens, more than 30% of BiH citizens, according to these solutions, can never think of being elected to the BiH presidency or to any home of the people where national interests are represented. It is huge, it is opposed to the national interests of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and all citizens and, as a party that respects the interests of all these citizens, we strongly protest, we point to that fact. 3. You here, these solutions, in a certain way suggest and advocate changes, certain changes to the BiH Constitution, the Federation of BiH Constitution and the RS Constitution. It's not a big change, though. You probably expect, given that they do not fall into the essence, that you will get support for these constitutional changes, because the Constitution of BiH insists only on changing the decision-making way, is about the special assembly of the House of Representatives, the special modalities of decision-making, etc., but I would like to point out, on behalf of the SDP, that we are at the 21st stage against the change of the Constitution and the RS and the Federation of BiH and that we are only in line with these constitutions with the European Convention on Human Rights and all international conventions on Human Rights. These documents should be brought into line with the Conventions on Human Rights. If we open a box of amendments to the Constitution, even on peripheral issues, it'll be bad. The constitution should be brought into line with the European Convention on Human Rights, and this has great responsibility, and primarily the responsibility of the international community and the Council of Europe, which helps us bring BiH closer to the European family. 4. Mr. Ljubičić, I see you writing carefully, I would like to suggest that we must provide such solutions in the election that I do not have time to repeat all solutions, but, let's say, the candidate elected as a member of the BiH presidency has the support of his people and the relevant support of all other peoples. Your solutions, Mr. Ljubičić, advocate, let's say, theoretical opportunities for a candidate for the BiH presidency to be elected without any support or support. I apologize for the example. A very clear test can be made that a candidate from the Croatian people can be elected without a single vote from the Hrvat, that's it. That's not good. We in the BiH presidency must have people who have the support of their people. At the same time, your solutions advocate being elected, for example, a candidate for the BiH presidency of the Bosniak people without a single vote of support or a single vote of members of other peoples, that is also not good, it is bad. Do you know why it's bad? Because they will then argue, block work and instead of being sanctioned for the blockade of work, they will, on the contrary, receive the support of a limited voting body and act as they have mostly acted so far, which is that partially, they only have one part of BiH as part of the people, never cross a circle more than 20% of BiH territory. Mr. Chairman, this is a principle debate, and you've accepted it, and the debate in principle gives huge, broad possibilities, let me finish with point 5, the sixth I can leave out. 5. I am speaking here primarily to representatives of the international community. This is a key moment, it's a strategic significance of this law. If it is not constantly in this law, we have for the first time a permanent Electoral Law, if solutions that respect European, global, democratic principles are not adopted, BiH will take a completely wrong turn at the crossroads. We will remain on the blockades, we will remain in the past, because then the story of the past will always be better rewarded under this Electoral Law, it will always cause better effects with voters than the story of the future, therefore, Mr Ljubičić, esteeming your motivation that you have proposed this Election Law, please do not allow further centralisation, BiH and all political power is centralized not in this parliament, not by voters. You yourself have seen that the elections are formally held, because the centres of political power are in three unilateral political parties. Don't let it, Mr. Drago Ljubičić, with your expert group, with everyone who helps you keep it that way. Return your decision to this House. Do not allow MPs in the next term to just vote as they were told and return the dignity to the voters, voters and MPs. It is firmly convinced that most of this will be appreciated, and expressing its willingness to make some solutions, which is a far simpler way, from these laws of yours, amendment to the SDP proposal, I believe that we will come to this election law, I agree with the predecessor, the balance between the national rights of colitisity and civil rights in BiH, without it there is no future in BiH. 22
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3014	Honored MPs, esteemed guests, speak in front of the HDZ Club and in front of HDZ. There may be a little longer exposure, but I don't think she'll get past this as long as my predecessor did, so I'd like your attention. Supporting the absolute adoption of this Act, one general remark would be that the draft electoral law contains a series of solutions that are not acceptable, because the text of the draft contains provisions which, from the point of view of the BiH Constitution and the entity constitutions, can seriously be questioned when it comes to the distribution of powers between BiH and the entity, in connection with the choice of authorities, which is illogical, complicated, and for most voters in BiH would not be understood why the elections would be very expensive. Also, by holding elections under the proposed solutions in BiH's draft election law, a larger number of ballots would be invalid, and the process of determining the results of the elections would be quite slow. In addition, individual solutions in the draft electoral law provide a significant opportunity for electoral engineering. Special observations and suggestions: 1. Although the basic provisions of the BiH Election Law are designed to regulate the choice of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and members of the BiH presidency, and regulate the principles applicable to the election at all levels of government in BiH, the draft of the electoral law regulates all issues of elections from this level of government, from the municipality to the state of BiH, from calling for elections to determine the results of elections and the issuing of convictions to elected officials, and even the way in which the selection procedure for municipal officials, mayors, mayors, mayors, the government of the county, as well as municipal and city officials who handle municipal, county, county and city administration services. The issue of elections in BiH, through BiH's draft election law, is highly centralised, arranged and not responsible for the decentralised constitutional arrangement of BiH. The way BiH elections in the draft election law are regulated, this issue is more centralised than for example. in the 1990 RBiH Election Law. When the constitutional organisation of the RBiH was so arranged, only the municipality and the city of Sarajevo existed next to the Republic in its constitutional legal structure. By draft BiH election law, entities have been given very little opportunity to settle the entity's election issue with their electoral legislation. It's an entity, for example. given the possibility that the frameworks set out in the draft electoral law can determine the number of compensation mandates, then the number of multi-member electoral units and the number of MPs in the multi-member electoral unit to elect representatives to the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH, or MPs to the RS. When regulating the issue of elections, it must come from the fundamental principles that are in connection with the composition and way of electing the BiH government in the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions. The provisions of the BiH Constitution that regulate the issue of the allocation of powers between BiH institutions and entity institutions do not contain provisions on elections, which in this case states that the provisions of the BiH Constitution governing the issue of the distribution of authorities apply, that all that is not explicitly determined to be at BiH level fall within the authority of BiH institutions. Bearing in mind, and that the BiH Constitution only regulates that members of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives will be elected in accordance with the electoral law adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and that the seat of the 23 BiH presidency will be filled in accordance with the law to be adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it is proposed that the election law at BiH level regulates the issue of electoral bodies at BiH level, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency. The law, also to ensure the same electoral rights of all BiH citizens, should regulate fundamental issues regarding the exercise of voting rights.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3015	I ask you to speak slowly for translation, we have an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3016	Since there are still a number of refugees and displaced persons and the question of how to vote refugees and displaced persons, therefore, this BiH Law should regulate the issues of the BiH-level elections body, as well as the basic principles of managing the voters' register. All other issues should normally be regulated by the entity's electoral regulations. When it comes to the entity of the Federation of BiH, it is part of the county's electoral regulations. 2. The draft BiH Election Law envisions a brand-new election system for BiH presidency members, who is quite complicated and unknown in these areas and probably in the countries of Europe. A fundamental question can be raised whether BiH voters could understand the proposed election system of BiH presidency members, where the candidate would not be elected to the BiH presidency, who won the most votes in the election, but could, according to the proposed system, be elected a candidate who could be second or third in the first round and be elected a member of the BiH presidency by applying the proposed voting system, points from the list of those candidates who decline because they get the smallest number of votes, points. It can be estimated that the proposed way of voting in the BiH Election Law Draft for BiH presidency members is very complicated for BiH voters, and that the result would be a large number of invalid ballots, and in addition, the proposed voting system for BiH presidency members gives greater opportunities for electoral engineering. I propose that such a solution be installed for the election of BiH presidency members in the Electoral Law, which will allow the election of members of the BiH presidency to be simple and understandable for BiH voters, with solutions being such that they exclude any possibility of electoral engineering. In doing so, it must be borne in mind that three Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin are constitutional in BiH. That the members of the BiH presidency, in the BiH presidency, represent three constituent nations and that, therefore, in selecting members of the BiH presidency, for their choice, first of all, the decisive influence must have the votes of the people elected by a member of the BiH presidency, i.e. a nation represented by a member of the BiH presidency. Also unacceptable is the proposal in BiH's draft election law that a member of the BiH presidency, instead of a member who resigned, elect members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives who were elected from the territory of the same entity as a member of the BiH presidency who resigned. This proposed solution is unacceptable for the Croatian side for two reasons. 1. At the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, from the Federation of BiH, we usually know what the ratio of MPs is. In the election of members of the Croatian people's BiH presidency, the Croatian people could never play a decisive role, as 24 minorities are there. It is therefore proposed that if a member of the BiH presidency is elected in such cases, either at the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, or the National Assembly of the RS, or that the election be conducted by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. 2. In order for the voting system to be such that the ratio would be 20 to 8 in favour of Bošnjak in the House of Representatives, it is indeed unacceptable. The BiH Constitution has specified both the orderly way and the decision-making process at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, so it would not be possible to accept the proposed way of deciding on the election of a BiH presidency member in such a way, but as prescribed, therefore, the voting system as always applied in the regular procedure. In addition, it is proposed that the candidate to elect a member of the BiH presidency instead of a member who resigned can only be a member of the political party whose candidate was previously elected as a member of the BiH presidency and has resigned, not any representative from the same people from whom he was formerly a member of the BiH presidency, as foreseen in the draft of the election law. It is unacceptable and the right contained in the transitional and final provisions of the draft electoral law that if a seat for a member of the BiH presidency remains vacant before the election for the BiH presidency, in accordance with the BiH Election Law, this vacant place is filled in a forward-exposed manner, regardless of the reason it led to the meeting of the post. It is not clear why the election of a member of the Bureau is envisaged when a member of the Bureau ceases his post in two different ways. One procedure shall be carried out if a member of the Bureau dies or is permanently unable to perform his duties and another procedure when a member of the Bureau resigns. It is proposed that the same election procedure be carried out for the Bureau regardless of how the member of the Bureau has ceased his duties, so that in such cases the election of a member of the Presidency is done, or the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, or the RS, or the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The BiH Election Law draft provides for the appointment and election of members of the BiH presidency to be determined by the deputy. The proposed solution can be questioned from the position of the constitutionality, since the BiH Constitution does not know the post of deputy. The deputies, namely, must choose or only be able to choose in those cases where it is specified by the Constitution, which, in a specific case, is not envisaged, regardless of what is found in the draft, that the deputy member of the BiH presidency does not have any powers. The BiH election law provides for a candidate, a member of the BiH presidency, in addition to signing voter support in the entity, the election unit in which the election is being held, to obtain a thousand signatures from another entity. The question can be raised as to whether an election action, i.e. obtaining voter support, can be conducted outside the constituency in which someone is running to elect the BiH presidency. The question arises, namely, how logical it is to collect the signatures of voter support for a member of the presidency from voters who do not have the right to vote for that member of the presidency. Therefore, the election law solution should be for the signing of voter support for the presidency member's candidacy to be collected only in the electoral unit, an entity in which someone is running for member of the BiH presidency. 3. With the draft of the BiH Election Law, I ask for a little patience, if this is already prepared to listen. The draft electoral solution, the election at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, provides that a majority of MPs are to be elected from several electoral units according to the formula of a proportionate system, and that a small part of 25 MPs are to be elected as compensation mandates selected from the Federation of BiH, or RS, as a whole, according to the formula of a proportionate system, with the vote being made either for the party or for candidates on the party's candidate list. This system of election of MPs is quite complicated and incomprehensible for a number of BiH voters who, should be said modestly, have an electoral education, so it is to assume that, if this system is applied in practice, there will be a significant number of invalid ballots, and will also significantly slow down the determination of voting results. Starting with the findings set out in the BiH Election Law, when it comes to the election of MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, such solutions should be installed that will be more understandable and simple for citizens. 4. The transitional and final provisions of the draft electoral law stipulated that until the mandate of the High Representative ceases, or until he decides that all members of the commission, chief secretary of the BiH Election Commission, members of the Election Council for Appeals and Appeals, and members of the Board of Appeal are appointed by the High Representative. Such a solution is not acceptable, therefore, that the High Representative appoints all members of the above-mentioned electoral bodies. That is why it is proposed that all members of the House of Domestic Citizens in the Election Commission of BiH and the Board of Appeal, and members of the Electoral Council for Appeals and Appeals, and as chief secretary of the BiH Election Commission, elect the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is because, in similar situations, where there are representatives of the international community, representatives of the order of domestic citizens are elected by the competent authority of BiH, i.e. entities, and representatives of the international community are elected by the competent authority of the international community, e.g. The BiH Constitutional Court, the BiH House of Human Rights, the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court, the Human Rights Court of the Federation of BiH, etc. According to the Annex 3, representatives of the party, members of the Interim Commission, could not be elected to the Interim Election Commission without the agreement of the parties, all of which suggests that an unreal and illogically proposed solution in the BiH Election Law Draft is that all members of the BiH Election Commission, chief secretary of the Election Commission, therefore, what I have already listed is being elected by an independent high representative. I'd like a little more, if you have patience, and if you don't, I'll interrupt and continue.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3017	I want to introduce you to one position, I would ask you to stop your debate, if you need to give us one more chance, a word, it's not controversial, but the Kolegijum has taken the next position, if someone performs on behalf of the MPs' club in the future we will give twice as much time, but it is understood that this point will not be discussed by the members of that club. We can't give such long debates, MP Spahić, and then you, so there were other people who would still like to say, but they don't have a chance. I am asking you this moment, I am announcing an hour's lunch break and we, the Kolegijum, have a debate with the representatives of the European Parliament, has a conversation, and you will have a chance to have lunch, and in half three we will continue and then I will give my colleague that on behalf of you, Madam Parliament, leave it to us, obliges us to time agreed with the representatives of the European Parliament and we cannot. 26
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3018	Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3019	I suggest we get back to work. We've got 24 MPs in the O.R., and I can't wait for someone to have mercy, so I suggest we get back to work. The next person to be registered for discussion is Mr. Silajdžić, he's gone, since he's not there, the next one is reported, I think we should give Mrs. Havel a chance. Mrs. Havel, will you speak as an MP or on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3020	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3021	Here you go, because otherwise I wouldn't allow it, we have to put in practice once, we'll give priority to the club, but we can't keep running this practice which is, we agreed as a Kolegijum, and I agree with you that we should say it at the beginning, but we agreed during this session that it would be a practice, we can't tolerate it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3022	This extension won't take long as the first part. In addition to some solutions in the election of authorities in entities regulated by the BiH Election Law, instead of regulating themselves in the entity's electoral legislation, these solutions are not acceptable for a number of other reasons. 1. The choice of envoys in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH is not particularly acceptable for the Croatian side. This is because in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, from the legislative bodies of the counties, the same number of 30 Hrvat and Bošnjak envoys is chosen to have a significantly greater impact, given the number of representatives from the Bosniak people, since in the Federation of BiH only three counties with the majority Croatian people, while five counties with the majority Bosniak people, and thus most representatives in the legislative bodies of counties. To elect an envoy in the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH, it will be necessary to find such solutions that will make it impossible to dominate the majority of the people in selecting the envoys in the House of the Federation of BiH's Parliament. To that end, the solutions envisaged for the election of envoys to the House of Peoples of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly could be used. Therefore, Croatian envoys from the county are elected by Croatian representatives in the county's legislative body, and Bosniak envoys from the county are elected by Bosniak representatives in the county's legislative body. 27 2. The BiH election law also regulates the election of MPs at the Federation of BiH and RS Parliament's House of Representatives rather than regulating these issues through entity election legislation. It can be concluded that the proposed way of elections for these authorities as well as for the election of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is quite complicated and incomprehensible for more voters in BiH. In addition, the proposed way of electing representatives to the Federation of BiH House of Representatives, where representatives are scheduled to be elected from multiple election units, by applying the principles of open lists, can be questioned from the position of the Constitution, since the Constitution of the Federation of BiH requires that representatives of the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives be elected to the territory of the entire Federation of BiH, i.e. the Constitution of the Federation of BiH stipulates that representatives have been elected in the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH Parliament from each party at the top of the party, according to the number of votes received. 3. Election legislation should also regulate the choice of only those authorities for which direct elections are held by citizens. It is therefore unacceptable that the electoral legislation, particularly at BiH level, regulate the issue of elections for those authorities whose choice is already laid down in the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, the president and vice-president of the Federation of BiH, the government and mayors of the counties, because this issue is regulated by the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the constitutions of the counties, the selection of mayors, municipal mayors and officials who operate in administration bodies in municipal, county and city election bodies, because this issue is regulated in the statutes of the cities, i.e. the municipalities, in particular by deviating the proposed solutions partly from the solutions set out in the entity's constitutions, county constitutions and the constitutions of cities and municipalities for the selection of those authorities. 4. It is not acceptable and the solution provided for in Article 14.18. A draft of BiH's election law, that the municipal council's mandate, i.e. the county assembly, lasts four years. The issue, above all, should be regulated by the entity's electoral legislation, and should also be pointed out that the Constitution of the Federation of BiH stipulates that the mandate of municipal councilors, or representatives of the county assembly, is regulated in the Constitution. This is especially so when it comes to the provisions in the entity and county constitutions which determine the duration of the term of office being contrary to the BiH Constitution because the constitution does not treat the issue. For the same reasons, it is not acceptable to propose a solution in Article 20.10. A draft electoral law that the mandate of members of the Federation of BiH House of Representatives who are elected in the first elections under this law lasts for two years, especially given that the Constitution of the Federation of BiH prescribed that the mandate of MPs at the Federation of Bi's House of Representatives lasts four years. 5. The draft BiH election law has set a minimum and maximum number of representatives in the county assembly, or council members in the municipal council, depending on the number of voters in the county, or the municipality. In addition to the need to regulate the issue not by BiH Election Law, but by entity election legislation, it should be pointed out that the number of representatives in the county's legislative body is determined by the Federation of BiH Constitution and is between 30 and 50 MPs, and the largest number of county constitutions also determines the minimum and maximum number of council members in the municipal council in the county area. It is therefore not acceptable that the law at BiH level determines the number of representatives in the county's legislative body, or councilman in the municipal council, especially since the proposal in the Draft, in some cases does not comply with the entity's constitution and the county constitutions. I thank you, I know I've been extensive, but I think this discussion will come in handy in a further debate over this. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3023	Thank you very much, Mrs. Havel. The word has an MP named Špirić. Is it like a club president or an MP?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3024	I'll stick to the weather and I don't care. If I go on, then... Gentlemen chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw important attention to a few things before the principle debate on the BiH Election Law Draft. I don't think there's a need, and I particularly stress the importance of adopting this law for the future of BiH and its peoples, for its position within Europe and the international community. But what is unstandard in all this is that the draft law has passed a much wider debate outside BiH's space, but, unfortunately, we are ready to discuss this, and it concerns the fate of BiH and its citizens. If that's the case, I'll read you a letter from October 21st, '99. A year from the High Representative of Mr. Petrič or the OHR's office saying: "This draft was submitted to representatives of the international community, and was approved by the Governing Board of the Peace Implementation Council and experts of the Council of Europe. As it is, the draft law respects all democratic principles set out in international conventions and does not contain any provision that may be considered contrary to the BiH Constitution." And it is concluded, "the president and the domestic members of the Electoral Law Commission, as well as my Office will be available to the competent working bodies of both homes and will be ready to take part in the working sessions." So, this Law has passed much more debates than we think, and that is why I ask that we ask questions to a real, essential pronoun, not to a formal-legal Mr. Drago Ljubičić, whom I ask to act as an MP, because he doesn't have any financial support based on which he could put all this into something else called the law and that we are ready to respect one another, and why Drago Ljubicic, as an MP, has brought this law into debate into this high house, talks about the position of BiH, after the war he is being waged and, of course, to point out, to say his vision in this principle debate. In the adoption of the BiH Election Law, of course, in my view, it is necessary to start from the internal structure established by the BiH Constitution, the position and role of entities and the constitutionality of the three equal peoples of BiH. The BiH electoral system, according to the proposed BiH Election Law draft, partly expresses its tendency towards unitaryisation of BiH, is meant by the organisation and jurisdiction of bodies, organisations, composition and way of deciding the Election Commission and others, which is contrary to the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH and the Constitution of BiH. By prescribing the principles, rules and procedures of elections at all levels of government in BiH, the BiH Bill of Election Law most directly affects the constitutional structure and independence and jurisdiction of the entity. The overall concept of the BiH Election Law Draft regarding the authority and competence of the High Representative for BiH does not have its constitutional relationship, especially in part of the transitional and final provisions of the BiH Election Law draft, which conditioned the MP to report as the legislator. The draft electoral law of BiH, therefore, is the second remark of the BiH Election Law, has no constitutional basis because the Constitution of BiH has only found that it will be a democratic state that will act by law and with the free and democratic elections of item 2, Article 1. The constitution and that the electoral law that will be adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will therefore apply only to the 29th House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency, Articles 4 and 5. The BiH Constitution. In the framework of the established Electoral Law, I believe that, with regard to voter rights, that the right should be laid down in this way, to define who has all the right to vote, finally, by solving migration problems by giving votes to displaced, refugee and other persons who have settled permanently in BiH from the former republics, it is irrelevant whether in the Federation of BiH entity or in the RS entity. Under the 4th, it should also establish a way of elections for the House of Representatives, so that BiH has two electoral units, therefore, the election unit of the Federation of BiH and RS so that 14 MPs are elected to RS as one electoral unit, and 28 in the Federation of BiH as the second constituency. Decidan is the view that BiH Election Law cannot prescribe election principles for entities because the BiH Constitution has accepted the principle of exclusive division of jurisdiction between BiH institutions and entities. Also, this law cannot regulate election principles for local authorities because local self-government is in the jurisdiction of entities. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to believe that the international community and commission working on this has spent a lot of time and effort and that they will be able to bring together these comments or amendments to the Constitution of BiH and RS, or, otherwise, in the structure of MPs, they will have to look for those who are willing to say that the Constitution of BiH and RS should be brought into line with the Electoral Law, which has not been seen in the world so far. I guess the Electoral Law should be aligned with one constitution and another. So much in the principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3025	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Parliament, since there are no more reported, I will take that as a matter of fact as an MP I speak. Dear Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, dear Ambassador Beri, I am pleased to say that today is very constructive and we are doing a very useful job for the BiH state. I think we're all aware of that. At the beginning, before, I mean, in principle of my remarks, I think it would be best to conclude that a stenogram from today's debate should be referred to the OSCE office or finally, what Mr Špirić said, I am absolutely in agreement. We know that with the greatest effort you have made your office, you yourself, and the commission, to direct, therefore, a stenogram from this gathering to you that you see what MPs today think of the proposal, the draft of this law, so that, I say, you may have a lot of time to answer us to everything we ask today. Namely, the further debate that will be held in this House on Election Law will also depend on how convincing you will be to your answers to what today are the dilemmas of MPs here and I think it is very important. If the MPs agree that this conclusion is made, that the stenogram is directed to both you and the other promoter, I mean the SDP Club, meaning that we have the same approach, I think all of you who are proposings will benefit greatly from it, and we are not going to waste time on your partial answers today, because it is certain that you will give far more quality answers when you sit down and think about any of our remarks. I think, in the end, let the board meet who's been doing this whole big job, so let's take a good look at everything we say. 30 What I want to say about the Electoral Law now, I would like to be specifically told to us here what is the constitutional basis and that it is decidently listed in the preamble of this law. I mean, let's get this dilemma straight. I think it must contain our electoral law, and I expect you to make an effort, both you personally and your authority, for the commission to sit down and help Mr. Ljubičić to say so, and we no longer refer these questions to him as a proposing, and to you, as an OSCE institution, what happened, why there is no preamble. It is very important, given that we have two conflicting statements, that everything is in accordance with the Constitution and that it is not all. We have a letter that tells us that it is all in accordance with the Constitution and here you see a large number of MPs' opinions that it is not in accordance with the Constitution, we must bridge this dilemma in one democratic way. What I'm trying to say next is that aneks 3 is. The Dayton Peace Accords said it would be determined that entity representatives agree to elect a commission that will be responsible for holding future elections in BiH. As possible, I ask the question, that this is in Annex 3 and we all swear, so to speak, that we will respect the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton Peace Agreement, and that this law says to the commission a high representative. We ourselves have already deviated from the standards adopted, internationally recognised and signed by all participants, participants in the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement. One of the relevant points is that the BiH Election Law should also apply to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency. Please, that's what our Constitution says. I'd like clarifications for everything else that's out there. In the draft of this Electoral Law, it is a restrictive norm that says all those who are on trial, who are under indictment, on the list, to appear before the Tribunal or local courts, cannot run. One of the basic norms of the right to blame is the one where the guilt is proved. The same goes for people who are in office, and they're supposed to run for office. I agree that it can't be dual function, but I also agree that a man can't resign in advance and he says I'm going to run, and whether I'm going to be elected or not. Therefore, we must overcome these dilemmas because they are in our best interests. Another very important thing. Here in a norm below 2.1. to 2.21 from the polling authorities' point of view, I warn that we would really have to explicitly say that the Election Commission for BiH has two Srbin, two Hrvat and two Bošnjak and one from the others. Who else are they? We need to know who the rest of them are, decadently to say who the others are and to introduce the principle of uniform decision-making in that commission. What kind of principle is that? We cannot, in part, decide by consensus, and by a two-thirds majority or relative majority, because there is the possibility of different groupings within the commission and that in some ways decisions will not be an expression of the will of those who are representatives there of Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and others. I appreciate there's a group of others, but I'm asking her to be listed. Why are we afraid to indicate who the others are? Let's just say that these are all nations, Srbin, Bošnjak or Hrvat, and there's no problem, that we know or that it's not some new Yugoslavia, or, I don't know, some new Bosniakism or something. I'd like to know what it is. I apologize to this, I don't want to hurt anyone, I just want it to be precise and there's no dilemma. When it comes to this election census, it is said that little elections will be held, signatures will be collected in one entity and elections will be held in another. As far as I've learned and respected the opinions of relevant legal experts, this combination does not know any electoral model, election law in the world. If 31 knows, I'd like to say which countries do it like this. So to collect signatures on one territory, and for that same candidate exclusively votes on another territory. It's something that, one combination that needs to be explained. I think she's for... There were speeches here, I would not like to repeat now what others have said, but I have to say one more thing, and that is in Chapter II, where elections authorities are mentioned, the electoral commissions are mentioned, therefore, at BiH level and the municipal electoral commission. Please, why, can anyone explain to me, there's no electoral commission of entities, and we say there's going to be an entity-level election law. I don't know, there are illogicalities that I don't know how to explain this moment why, but I would very much like to hear an argumentary explanation for such an attitude. I mean, when it comes to something else, it is said that the structure of all election commissions in BiH must be multiethnic, according to the 1991 census. Which is to say that this law prejudges the constitutional dispute before the BiH Constitutional Court, and you know that this dispute on the constitutionality of the people, I don't know what the outcome of this dispute will be right now, but at least I would like to vote for something that I don't know in advance how it will legally end and I don't want to talk about what I am, I don't want to do, let it remain with the authorities that will give a competent opinion. This is where MPs spoke about investing in some of the laws on local self-government and some local solutions at entity level, too, is a matter that needs to be regulated. What I would also point out in Article 1.11. of the first chapter, as this methodology is appropriate to the European continental system of law, and I will later state that candidates of all political parties during the election campaign can carry out electoral activities in the territory of all BiH. That doesn't make any sense to me. If someone's registered locally, I guess there's that area where he's registered and where he has candidates. What would someone in Mostar be looking for, and registering for the Banja Luka area, this is what I ask my colleague Špirić, he has one party on the level, just asking. I would like, gentlemen, to accept this not to go further than these ten minutes because then I have no right to restrict you, too, to get as many arguments as possible on all questions. Thank you very much. My true desire was to open up to my dilemmas the possibility of a quality debate in the second round, let's call this the first round in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3026	I won't take up much of your time today, so I'm not able to answer all the very good questions I've heard today. We will do a written review of all your questions, or we will provide you with answers, and we will also meet with clubs, or members of clubs individually. We will also be pleased to meet with members of this body as well as with the House of Representatives and to speak with them individually. I think what we've done so far is a good introduction to the draft election law debate. There are a few questions that come up frequently about the draft, and these are exactly the questions I want to answer right now. Is the draft law consistent with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? You've heard, then, the official legal opinion of the High Representative on this issue. And he's just in charge of interpreting the Constitution for the duration of his term of office. But we will be glad to go through all this member by member and explain why we think this law is in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 32 Is the draft law consistent with European standards? So the draft was considered by the Council of Europe and twice by the Venice Commission. And the comments they are given are taken into account when drawing up the bill. The draft law has also been discussed by international election law lawyers and they have also found that it is in line with international standards. The chairman of the working groups for the draft electoral law is a self-respected international lawyer, as well as an expert in the field of electoral law. Next question - is the system too complicated for voters to understand? We've organised experimental elections twice, so using the ballots we intend to use in the election. It is clear that the voter understood what is said in the preferential voting system and what is said in the open list system. We were running experimental elections in the municipal elections, and then there were only 2% of the invalid ballots. This means that the percentage of invalid ballots was much lower than it was in the 1998 elections. Many people have asked why we have two methods of choosing heirs with members of the Bureau. We did this with a goal to avoid what we call election engineering. That means we stop someone from running for elections who doesn't want to win that place, and then when they get that place, they hand that place over to someone else. For this reason, we are making a difference between not giving up on the spot and giving up voluntarily. Yes, we understand there will be entity commissions and election commissions at all levels. And this segment will be covered by entity law. It is true that the system for collecting signatures in different parts is unique for the country of BiH. But only BiH in the world has entities. So some unique items in this law are just conditioned by a unique, or specific structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We also believe that the laws of the entity, as well as the laws of the canton, must comply with the law at country level. Therefore, the law contains many principles that must be applied in entity laws as well. The infamous P-2 form. is mentioned today. As you all know, this form P-2 hasn't been used since 1996. So the question is whether people have the right to choose to vote where they were in 1991 or to vote based on where they are right now. And I also think that you will agree with me in the finding that banning people from voting for the places where they are currently located, or where they are currently living, would be some kind of violation of their rights. So the system by which it is ensured that the voter was, or lived in that municipality in 1991 and where he now wants to live, or where he now lives, is very, very carefully determined. I must also point out that the preferential voting system is a system that is generally used in a large number of European countries. When I say in principle, then I think only in BiH and Iceland, so the candidate can be elected presidency, and without getting most votes. Take, for example, Croatia. If you have less than 50% of the votes, you cannot be elected to the Croatian Presidency. Therefore, they have the possibility of two rounds of voting. The system of preferential voting here, so it simply sums up these two rounds of voting in one vote. This isn't the perfect law. This is a compromise. I think you saw from our discussion today that we are unable to create a law that will fit all the people here and also to all the constituent peoples. We have, then, drawn up one of the best compromises, namely a compromise that shows the best of our options. However, you are now in a position to improve all this. And we are also here, it will be a pleasure to support those provisions that are in line with the BiH Constitution and also comply with international standards. 33 And we also look forward to working together between you and us, as bodies as a whole, as well as individually – means with representatives of clubs, deputy club representatives and the like. In the end, I would also like to thank Mr. Ljubičić. If there are some things you like here, then you should thank this gentleman for that. But if there are things you don't like, then you have to blame the high representative and me. But please don't blame the members of our national task force for that. Because in their working process, they had 90 different versions of the law, in an effort to make this bill as good as possible. So I can also point out that the law isn't written in stone, it's simply written, so to speak, in the blood of those people who worked on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3027	Thank you, Ambassador Beri. Mr. Silajdžić has the word. Please, Mr. Silajdžić asked for a word earlier, so he was absent from the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3028	I still think this is a principle debate and that's why I'm going to try to be brief. What do we want to achieve with this electoral law? We want to improve the situation resulting from a colossal violation of human rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina. We can do this by applying standards that we believe are civilized. So that's our priority. Since in the last ten years we've shown how much we know about these norms, then we have to learn from others. We want to learn that from Mr. Beri, the OSCE, from the gentlemen who were here from the Council of Europe. So this situation that we have, it wasn't because of the poor electoral law we've had, it wasn't because of the natural disaster, it was because of the human rights violations that continue at all levels. Therefore, we must comply with this law with Dejton. And the Dayton Constitution says international conventions have priority over domestic law. Explicate, the draft of this law is not in line with that. I have proposed the Law on the application of international conventions. Since February 1997, you've had that draft. So, the Law on the Application of International Conventions, since it does not apply. Which, of course, is illogical, because it shouldn't be a law if the conventions are applied directly, the question is, do the conventions apply here? I will not repeat, but I must say - first of all, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This is our European convention. We accepted it. We've accepted other standards when it comes to human rights. That's why we have to get along with it. The Copenhagen Document on Universal Election Law, that a man be chosen and elected. So, we don't have to because of the conditions that have been created to overcome low standards, but vice versa – we have to fix these standards by, here, joining European standards that we think are better than ours, and for ours we know what they are. In other words, we have a chance to step out one more time. We made a good move yesterday. Finally, we will have the legal system that needs to be protected, we will finally protect human rights, which will protect our investments, etc. Now we have a chance to step out, I think, at an even more important moment, and that's election law. I'd recommend gentlemen from the international community to leave the line of less resistance. I know it's easier to go. BiH deserves to be a European country. We can't be if citizens don't have civil rights as well as in all other countries. 34 Universal Election Law guaranteed by the Copenhagen document. Please apply the standards you apply in your countries and do not make exceptions. We don't want to be an exception anymore. We want to be a normal European country. BiH citizens are ready for this and it is possible to make a good connection between what we now have on the ground and that universal right. In this way, I'm afraid that we continue to violate human rights and even legalize ethnic cleansing, the famous, famous P-2 is still in full effect, and openly if I'm reading this draft well. We were told in 1996 that there would never be any more talk about it. I even received a letter in that sense when I conditioned my going out to the elections and my parties with it. If it is true and if I read it well, that ethnic cleansing is legalized, then it will be another reason for me, as an MP and, of course, as party president, to influence this law not to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3029	Thank you very much. Mrs. Perkanović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3030	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, distinguished guests, I just wanted to say a few words about this election law. It seems to me, after the presentation of all of us here, that this law is extremely good. Since no one particularly praises him, no one in particular regrets it, it means that no one is ideal, and no one is so bad that it can't be accepted. We have come out of one of the abnormal conditions of life and this is the only way towards better life and European integration. If we want to enter Europe, we cannot apply the laws and standards currently applied by European countries because we are far behind these laws of Europe and the lives of Europe. Therefore, we must go through this transitional period called postwar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3031	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to talk? If not, thank you very much. So, for this part of the debate under this point, I suggest that a stenogram be delivered to the OSCE kancelarija and the delegate Ljubičić within as soon as possible, and that after that, the Proposer informs us when we will have the answers to all of these questions today so that we can schedule the next debate that will start with these answers. Do you agree with this conclusion? Who's in? You don't need to count, here, we see it's unanimous. Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the SDP to give an introductory statement on the draft law of which the SDP proposes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3032	Dear ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, allow me to say a few words as a principled explanation of the electoral law proposed by the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Club of MPs. Why did we propose the Electoral Law? Because all deadlines are set by the Dayton Peace Agreement for the adoption of a permanent electoral law long ago. Secondly, we have come from the fact that all MPs 35 in the BiH Parliament have committed to respect the BiH Constitution and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How do we see respect for the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina? The Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina is against changes to the BiH Constitution and against changes to the Dayton Peace Agreement. How do we see the protection of the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens of BiH? By ensuring BiH freedom, peace, equality, return, of course, to its own, trial for crimes, economic prosperity and integration into Europe of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Starting with the fact that the constitutional provision of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a multiethnic state, with two multiethnic entities and three peoples that are equal throughout its territory, we have drawn up a possible draft of the electoral law, with many alternatives, subject to, certainly, discussion and reconciliation. We appreciate that no election law solution can derivate the BiH Constitution's preamble that it is a nation of peoples and citizens, or its members who speak of a ban on discrimination, which has been established by international human rights documents. In that sense, we have come from constitutional provisions and the Dayton Peace Agreement which need to ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights and freedoms provided by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This means, without discrimination on any basis, such as gender, race, color, language, religion, political and other opinion, national and social origin. We also came from Article II of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which says that the rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in its protocols will be directly applied in Bosnia and Herzegovina. They'll have priority over every other law. Of course, we have also come from the fact that every report that we are as MPs, i.e. representatives in this House, received from the Council of Europe and its Committees on Political Affairs and Legal and Human Rights, contains a warning that BiH must comply with the European Convention on Human Rights if it wants to join the Council of Europe. Of course, we know that Europe, the democratic Europe we have been seeking since 1915, has been engaged in the promotion of human rights, and has been intensively in the last 210 years applying human rights to the soil of the Old continent. Under these provisions, an individual man, a citizen, an individual in Europe is the highest value and only if a man is free and equal with another man will his nation, or his collectiveity, be free. In this regard, we in our proposal are making a balance between citizens, and man as a citizen, and man as a member of a nation, or collectiveity, where we are doing the protection and equality of all peoples living in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as of all citizens. We would also like to point out in this principle debate that the permanent electoral law, rather than the provisional, determines to a significant extent the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Europe and the world. And that is why it is necessary to ensure the active and passive right of vote in the entire territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which means that every man in BiH can be elected and elected to any function in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, the SDP of BiH insists on establishing a common, active and passive right throughout BiH and all other solutions are unacceptable to us, contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and, if you will, undemocratic. This is the shortest, gentlemen chairman, as a principled explanation, not in particular, and we'll talk about it when there's a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3033	Thank you very much to the representative of the SDP. 36 I'm opening a debate. Gentlemen, I ask for a little more attention. I am opening a debate on an election bill proposed by the SDP Parliament Club. Does anyone want to participate in the discussion of this draft? Once again I ask, does anyone want to take part in the debate on this draft? Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, for the third time I've asked? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this draft. Please, that concludes the second item of the agenda. Does anyone have a wish to say anything before the point is concluded? Is there? Ambassador, do you want to? Gentlemen, it's mine to give my word. I've never seen a hand before. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3034	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I simply volunteered to intervene, because I do not think this debate can be concluded in this way. We here have to say which legal project goes to public debate, into further procedure, either they both go, or one goes, or none goes. Today we open a public debate and launch a legal project into one discussion. The termins are what they are, and we must be prepared to hold that debate during that period, and we are serious about the amendments here and finally pass the law. That is why I propose that we release the law proposed by the OSCE, the international community, on which the highest debate was held. And SDP gentlemen can install a series of projects with their amendments, etc. That's my suggestion, and I'm asking you to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3035	Thank you. I just want to point out that we from the College didn't have any, first of all, to suggest this, because we're just not here to say if anyone's going to sign up or not for discussion. The fact that an MP asked to vote on it I ask that the proposal be formulated, Mr. Rakić, and that you agree. [[whispers]] Here's while Mr. Tokić speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3036	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I would remind you of the beginning of the work of this House and of the stenogram and the formulation that we have not introduced with today's debate any other law and that we cannot do so while the Constitutional Commission, in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure and its conclusion, does not give an opinion on either law or other. And by respecting the rights of the MPs, any, to suggest, I believe there is absolutely no right to propose conclusions beyond any procedure. It's called anarchy. So today, we had information about these two laws, we had the opportunity to discuss these two laws in principle. And there is no legal procedure in any way that we are at this point declaring information. Because we simply didn't have a debate today about the draft or the possibility of accepting the draft as a basis for further discussion or not accepting any other law. I would therefore ask the College to behave in accordance with the established agenda and the business procedure, because any other vote will create unnecessary tension. Because there is time for the power of arguments and laws and amendments and members to be eliminated, etc. I, of course, am impressed by the fact that the gentleman, my predecessor colleague, is an impressive man who wants to speed up the process. And I don't mind if we schedule a new session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tomorrow, stop now and schedule the Constitutional Commission. I also advocated that we had no information but to have a fundamental debate. However, at the height of the vote, with the College, this principled information exchange of views on this law has been adopted. So I would ask you, as a College, not to act against it, because there is no possibility of a statement of something that has not yet entered the formal legal procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3037	Ambassador Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3038	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would refer to my previous discussion and I would say the following. I would disagree with Mr. Beri's presentation, mostly, where it is said that this draft of the electoral law is in accordance with the Constitution. I repeat again that the provisions governing the BiH presidency's election are not in line with the constitution, i.e. a harsh violation of the BiH Constitution, which is the highest legal act in this country. And clearly, I was talking about the division of jurisdiction, that the state level took on more power than the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina allows. And clearly, the draft of the electoral law presented to us by the SDP, in the provisions that speak and constitutionality of all and everywhere, clearly, and that, in my opinion, is a violation of the BiH Constitution. It represents a harsh violation of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In particular, I propose that both of these drafts be returned to the proposings, specifically the OHR Working Group, clearly, the SDP, to comply with the draft electoral law with the BiH Constitution. I'm stressing again, it's the highest legal act, we've sworn an oath and we have to stick to it. Just one question I'd like to ask, a preferential list, a preference. It clearly states in the constitution that the voter can choose a member of the BiH presidency. No more adding. It's clearly written. I propose that the draft laws be returned to the task force, i.e. the SDP. [[whispers from the scene]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3039	Thank you. No more discussion. I accept the intervention of Parliament, Čolo. Here in the College we have held consultations and we have a unanimous position to ask you two questions today, to make your point: - who is to refer as the basis for a public debate the draft law which has been referred to by the SDP and - who is to refer the draft of g. Ljubičić's law as the basis for a public debate. So, for both, and for the other, he can do for one, he can do for the other, and he can do for both. That is the position of the Kolegijum and that is the proposal of the Kolegijum. If we need a consultation of the parliamentary clubs, we can take a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3040	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very precise, perhaps a little harsh. The College does not have the right to reduce the rights of MPs and parliamentary groups who have proposed legal projects in the legal procedure. You have no right to put us to a vote, so by doing so, to bring in some sort of inconclusion itself to the MPs here. Please, this is today a principle debate on two legal proposals, by chance on one single problem – so 38 Election Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The only thing we can conclude today is that the House of Representatives has considered these laws in principle and is forwarding them to the regular procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This means that they will necessarily be declared by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission, and possibly by some other committees. Number one. Two, I would ask that once again, although you have sent a letter, Mr Banjac, we call on the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to give us the necessary comments or possible comments on one and another law. And how further debate will be held in parliament will be decided by the power of political arguments regarding one law and another. Both laws came in a regular procedure, completely regular. And we cannot say at all whether any of these laws will be excluded from the parliamentary procedure. Only those who suggested him can withdraw him. Please, it can't – I appreciate Mr. Rakić's efforts to speed up the law, but we can't even put such proposals to the vote at today's session. I ask you not to put this proposal to the vote as you agreed to the College, but to find a better way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3041	Break 10 minutes. Chiefs of Parliament clubs, or consultations within the framework of parties. /P A U Z A/ I ask the MPs to take their seats to continue our work. Gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I suggest we continue our work. We have a quorum. I know we're all tired, but let's keep going. We were here in the College discussing a new situation over these two laws. It is our opinion that we should ask Ambassador Rakić to withdraw the proposal for a conclusion, because, indeed, it is a fact that, in fact, in a public debate, none of the drafts went. This was a debate in principle. And it'll never be too late to come forward about one draft or another. Let's leave it for discussion. By the time we get to the proposal, it'll have to be one. One will be able to make a suggestion. And the blueprints could be two. What will be the basis for this proposal will be decided by you when the procedure has passed. Please, Ambassador Rakić, are you giving up? Thank you very much. I'm finishing item two on the agenda. I ask Members to remain in their seats to consult the Constitutional Commission on the next item of the agenda. The seat will be in Hall 3. I call on the President of the Constitutional Commission to file a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3043	I thank you, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission has just considered constitutionality, i.e. the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, and has found that it exists, too, and we 39 have had an open second debate that is likely to be discussed for this speaker. I repeat, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission considers that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law and that is enough as regards the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3044	I'm opening a debate on the bill. On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister Mr. Rečica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3045	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The BiH Parliament ordered the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and bring together the text of the Refugees and Displaced Persons Act. This, I must say, has lasted a long time and with very close and continuous cooperation with OHR and UNHCR, I repeat UNHCR, with an organisation authorised under the Dayton Agreement as the leading organization in the implementation of Annex 7. A peace deal. In some segments, during this alignment, I must say, there were divergence opinions. However, during the consensus and respecting both the legal opinions and interpretations of OHR and the UNHCR, there has been a crystallized and harmonised text of the law before you today. I note that this text is fully in line with international conventions with which BiH is acceding and with aneks 7.. The dejtonski Agreement as well as those positive and non-discriminatory regulations of entities currently in force in one entity and another. Finally, I repeat, this is a coherent and unanimous bill coming as such before the BiH Council of Ministers. In addition to the text of the proposal for a law, there is also an explanation explaining both the constitutional basis and the reasons for the adoption of the Law and the basic solution. Given the very long debate, for a very long procedure until we came to an agreed position on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, I would ask the BiH Parliament to accept this bill today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3046	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3047	Dear gentlemen, honourable Members, I will present on behalf of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum a report from the Commission that held its fifth meeting yesterday after the House of Representatives meeting. At the session, the Commission discussed the proposal for a law on refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. Of the nine members of the Commission, five were present. Four MPs supported the proposed Law while one MP was abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3048	Thank you, Ambassador Mrs. Perkanović. 40
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3049	Since I am one of the members of the Human Rights Commission, I am taking this opportunity to express my regret that I have not been invited to that session of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3050	Is there an answer? There's an answer, then.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3051	What is generally known, given the time being narrowed down and that we have scheduled the Commission immediately, on Friday we sent calls and yesterday we received information that Mrs Perkanović is not present even at the House of Representatives session for the reason that she has a sick child and is thus not present for the session. However, the calls went to all of us, and yesterday we were here at the House of Representatives meeting once again and we were held at seven o'clock last night to make a quorum, to hold a session of the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3052	Replica, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3053	I don't know if that call was even sent, but we didn't get it. If Friday's material came to me for the Assembly, and I think that's when the call and the other thing should come, you have phone numbers and I don't think there can be an excuse in it, like there was no time or I don't know what. Otherwise, it is disputed, the commission will dispute if not all members are invited.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3054	Thank you, since all my amendments have come to me, which is perfectly fine for me to set myself up, I suggest I speak now. Dear gentlemen, MPs and esteemed guests, here I have tried to give a number of amendments to this Law in the best way that, first of all, by respecting Article 2. The BiH Constitution, protecting human rights and freedoms, and here, in point 2, it is said that those rights under the European Convention have priority over all the laws, but on that basis. The first amendment refers to the name of the Law. I think he's an unscathed "emergency", these people are sick and tired, so let's not at least call them refugees, so I suggest that the law is called the Law on Refugee Persons from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. The refugee is a language-free term, if you'd like to accept it, if you won't, I won't be very angry and if you don't accept it. At least let's call them one decent dictionary if we haven't helped them in this period when we were supposed to help them, I'm talking about all the peoples and all the citizens who had that accident. The second amendment applies to Article 3. I put the 2nd position to be added, which reads “a fugitive does not belong to a person who, in a regular procedure, legally, has obtained legal documents and has left BiH territory after 30.4.'91. the year’. What I was going to say about 41. Please, I know for sure that in all three people and in the fourth that are citizens of BiH, there were persons who barely took out a living head and ran away without anything, and that escaped faces for me, and whoever came anywhere in BiH, got a work visa, signed up for a regular organ, took a passport, based on passports and work visas, went and earned money, is not in the same position for me as this, and that is the purpose of this amendment, nothing else is the goal. I don't care what people he's from or who he is, and I know I can never accept him as a citizen of equal to the one who's barefoot and ran away to save a naked life, it's not the same for me. There is, I do not dispute that you can think differently. I just want to explain why I suggest it. I have in Article 6 of the amendment, here it is said under point b) if it is voluntary, on the basis of comprehensive and objective information, essential for the choice of place of residence decided to permanently settle in another residence, etc., I suggest that point b) is voluntary, on the basis of legally obtained travel and other necessary documents important for the selection of place of residence, decided to settle, whether it is permanent or not, we leave it, because if we say permanently, then we abolish human freedom, can be human and return. Therefore, I would delete this word “sustainable” and it says to you. In Article 10, the basis of this approach is, since we have entity ministries for refugees and displaced persons, this is what the BiH Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, wants to put in charge. I'd like to include the entity ministries, of course for that resort, nothing else. There is something here in Article 13, which is unacceptable to me, which is to accept the text of the first and second order in Article 13, except for these last words “which can be returned” has the right to compensation for any property, and I would add an attitude that reads “the compensation for the property can be voluntarily, expressed by will, to seek refugees and displaced persons from the competent authorities of the entity”. The condition for this amendment is the following. If we are equally treating the right to return, the right to compensation and the right to replace the Dayton Peace Agreement, why don't we treat it in this Law, that's my argument. Amendment 6 refers to all that, if we accept that supplement, what has escaped and displaced face, it refers to it, and I would not want to waste your time. Amendment 7. It says here he has the right to education. I just wanted to add the words "in accordance with the applicable regulations of entities and canton", I may have gone too far with this canton, but I think it has a basis. We must accept valid regulations. Amendment 8, in article 21, in addition to the words of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the competent ministries of entities, this is, therefore, to extend jurisdiction, to extend the competence of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Entity. It's the same thing as Amendment 9, and what's important is 10. This would be followed by Article 28, which would read “extended and displaced persons who voluntarily express a desire for material compensation of property cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property, unless they are offered adequate accommodation”. By doing so, Article 29 would become a member of the 30th and that would be the end of my amendments. I think you understand, I just want to protect the basic human right, and that 42 is the right to choose a place of life and to what was guaranteed by the Dayton Agreement. When I'm here, I want to explain the motion for a decision that I've delivered to you, since we've found that this law has a constitutional basis, as it has been delivered, but I'm not going to say now that it's the opinion of the Constitutional Commission because we haven't talked about it, and I don't want to talk about something we haven't, but I'm saying we haven't regulated a whole population of refugees in BiH legally, and there are such faces. Article 2 The constitution is absolutely decadent and clear, and here, Article 2, point 1, point 2, 3, f), k) m) you can read which is in line with the European Conventions on Human Rights and even those rights are above the law and have priority, which is why I have proposed a decision that I want to read publicly. A decision on the status and situation of refugees in BiH, and we have them not only from one state but from more countries, and I want those persons to have the status of people, because they don't have it for now. Article 1 The decision regulates the status and position of persons refugees in BiH from the countries created by the decomposition of the former AV Yugoslavia. Article 2. The lice who fled BiH after 30.6.1990 from the countries that were decomposed by the former Yugoslavia, fearing, justified, that they would be persecuted for their race, religion, nationality, belonging to a social group or their political opinions and who are unable to afford their property, or are unable to return rent rights to the countries that were decomposed by the former Yugoslavia, cannot be delegated from temporary accommodation facilities until they are made available with their property, or, while they are allowed to use an apartment where they had a tenant right until 30.6.'90. For years, except in case they're given adequate accommodation. Article 3 The decision shall enter into force on the eighth day following its publication. Article 4 The decision will be published in the BiH Official Messenger and the official entity messengers. The explanation of the reason for the proposal for this Decision is the fact that the bill we have has not regulated the status of these persons, which seriously violated the BiH Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. With the proposal of this Decision, I draw the conclusion that I have delivered to you earlier on the same issue. I hope, gentlemen, that this high house will treat all people equally as people, first of all, because they are, and their misfortune, if nothing else, would have to hurt us in that moral part. Thank you very much. 43 No matter what you, Your Honorary Deputy Minister, answer, I will ask my amendments for the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but cannot speak on behalf, you did not have the opportunity, because I delivered this this morning, amendments yesterday, and there were no people from the RS to debate equally in the Council of Ministers of BiH and there was no debate, as far as I was informed. Therefore, I do not dispute that you are answering, but I request the official position of the BiH Council of Ministers under these amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3055	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, although it is a day's break, I suppose we are all tired of all day's debate, but, unfortunately, I think it's very important that we conduct a debate and try to find the possibility of reaching the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons in BiH, because it is a problem, unfortunately, and unfortunately for those people who are concerned, more than half a million people within BiH, I would say that the burning problem for which he has had enough patience and enough understanding and at least those who have not felt what it means to be avoided, displaced and exiled face, must make a lot of sense and put forth a lot of effort on this issue. What I would like to point out at the very beginning is that this law does not put into the same relationship and all the possibilities that Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, which is why it would be good to re-shape in the title, if it wants to treat only this problem, and to call it the BiH Refugees Act, the BiH Return Act and the displaced persons in BiH. This law formulates only the rights of those who wish to return. I understand that the international community and those who helped this push the cheapest project because it has no funds for all segments. to regulate and democratisation BiH as a whole. Namely, Annex 7. Dayton Peace Agreement or the realisation of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, I am convinced, is the most expensive part of the implementation of the Peace Agreement in BiH. Since that's not the case, here, I'm just going to point out in principle some remarks to Article 3 of this Act, in Article 3, verse 5, where they say, after 30 April of '91. For years, fearing, justifiably, I think the word "justified" should be deleted, given the horrors and all that has been happening in these areas. It is enough to say that she will be persecuted for her racial, religious and all that stands, because I don't know who will appreciate whether it is justified or not, or who can get into the subjective reasons of those people who have experienced all the horrors of war fought in these areas. I also think that Article 7, indent under c) should read, meaning that the displaced person ceases to be a displaced person when he settles in a safe and dignified manner to another residence which the displaced person has chosen voluntarily and when he is made a fair compensation for the property that remained in the residence of 1991. So, putting in the same plane and one and the other right of a evasive and displaced person. Also, in Article 8, I suggest that Article 8 ends with the sentence “returners stop being on the six-month deadline, counting on the day they settled again in their earlier residence, i.e. permanently staying in the second place of residence in BiH, if they are justly compensated on the basis of first residence property rights.” Article 15, refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH have the right to return apartments, or to make fair compensation and exchange, on which they had a tenant right on 30 April, these are all the options that Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Accords to come into a more casual situation when it comes to the BiH population. There is something else, of course, that 44 I absolutely support, which said co-chairman Mirko Banjac, this law does not recognise, does not treat refugees in BiH, and I will tell you, straight from Croatia between 70 and 100,000 who do not have the right to return to the earlier place of residence. So this law would have to be the most modern, state-of-the-art law on the most modern persecution of the 21st century unless it puts all three possibilities provided by Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, and the return and replacement and compensation. I will draw your attention to only one option that stood within the Central Bank of BiH when it was established and when it was said that a fund, mainly of donor funds, will be formed within the Central Bank, will cover all three options that Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement provides. I'm asking you not to go into human rights violations again, and I'm afraid this really does not represent the way for human rights violations. Nor is the name itself in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement or must the law simply be called in line with the problem it deals with. This isn't a law on a fugitive, this is a return law and just a return, as the cheapest solution, but then we have to say that we gave up the next two elements of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, it's a replacement and compensation. Why don't we do it? One reason is that there are no financial resources and that this will be a burning problem for a long time if we don't want to start all segments of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. I'm saying it like a evicted face, because I've been three times in the course of what's been going on changing the place of residence. I only ask that once again, through the adoption of legal projects, we do not enter the human rights breach phase and never, ever, remember, and I will never raise my hand to adopt a law that does not respect 100,000 people who do not have the right to vote, who do not have the right to declare where they want to live, who do not have the right to live and who cease to care for both democratic Europe and the developed world, and do not come to understand even those countries, not even those entities where they want to live. I cannot understand that a citizen of the RS and BiH cannot be a Srbin from Croatia who wants to become one, and it is not against the Constitution, and Abdouni Mehrez can and can be like him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3056	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3057	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, MPs, we support the text of the Law, not because it has solved it and has solved the problem in the best way, and what solves the problem, this big problem in our country, the refugees, but because it is a compromise that one of the few laws has been difficult, I remind, given that a large number of laws that we have received from the Council of Ministers of BiH are constantly emerging in the public. We have two laws that have brought the BiH Council of Ministers into line, the assembly did not accept it. One of those two laws is this law. For these reasons, given yesterday's euphoric mood, we suggest that this law be adopted. We would, before the conditions are obtained, ask for the official and, please, it is very important that, during the work of the PSBiH House of Representatives, we have the official position of the promoter, which means the amendments, we insist on all amendments, we insist that the promoter declare himself first, and then the Assembly, and as regards the Decision, Mr Banjac, we stand at the point that this problem exists. We must not, like the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, go beyond the problems of refugees who have escaped from Croatia and live today in the territory of BiH, or the RS, but also other parts of BiH, but we are standing at the view that the decision is not an adequate way to solve these people's problems and we would instead suggest to the initiator of this decision that the PSBiH Council of Ministers ask 45 to resolve the problems and status of these persons, since they are not fully covered in a two-way return, so on. Petrich's laws, or laws declared by the Office of the High Representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3058	Thank you, I have the inaccuracy of the allegations, gentlemen, I didn't just think about people who came from Croatia to BiH, I thought about people from Slovenia, I thought about people from SRJ, I thought about people from other countries. Please, gentlemen, this population exists. The population has no human status in BiH. We now say there are 80,000, who say there are 80,000, no one has ever counted them. In particular, I would like to point out to Mrs. Jatarmaka, as a man in charge of human rights, we are here facing the fact that she says in our Constitution that the European Convention on Human Rights has priority over our legal solutions. We're here facing the fact that we have a number of people who don't know exactly what it is, but it's more than 70,000, who doesn't have a first vote, who doesn't have a job, who doesn't have a house, who, by the current regulations of this country, everyone can drive out into the street and can't get to their apartment, to their property, to anything. I will not be calm to this state, write down, if this decision is rejected, I will write a request to the European Court of Human Rights. I will ask to see if BiH, which refuses to make such a decision, can be accepted into the Council of Europe and such a decision is rejected. I don't mind the decision being a transitional solution, if that's what Mr. Tokić means. But, Mr. Tokić, you are the first man here to advocate civil and human rights in BiH, which is why I am extremely surprised by what you are, therefore, precisely you, why say put that solution off. Are you wondering, Mr. Tokić, where are these people tonight, is that the concern of BiH's Social Democrats for BiH citizens? Let's go with this decision, let's make it a transitional solution, but show it, as a parliament, yes, let's have 70,000, let's have none more, let's have 7,000, I don't know how many there are, but people are. I don't ask them for race or gender or religion, they're just people. I ask that you plead on this decision, I consider it in accordance with this item of the agenda, plead however you will, if it is negative, I will refer, as an MP of this House, to the International Court of Human Rights, what it thinks of this behaviour of the BiH Parliament. Is that how we treat people, people who've run away without anything, now we're pushing them into the street, they don't know who they are, they don't know who they are, they don't know where they're going to bother everyone, obviously, right now? I can't accept it, gentlemen, and I'll never accept it. If you don't accept that this is being solved, it's a sign that it's a false story of humanity, of protecting human rights. It's personal to you, sir. Just give me a line, and you're having a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3059	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am surprised by the tone and interpretation of this discussion and otherwise I have noticed that you, when present colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have more use and more mention of the human first. The SDP pointed to this problem, not today, but much, much earlier today, when you initiated this decision, it accepted and requested that this problem be solved within the institution, to find an adequate solution. For us, there is no solution in which, under the supposed protection of the human rights of one person, human rights of another person will be violated. 46
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3060	Like what?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3061	For example, you're talking about accommodation here, that you can't be people displaced from the states created by the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, you can't be deposed from the facilities in which they are now located until they are allowed to return to their property, which means you're making this decision...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3062	That's not true, sir, read it all the way, if you're already correct, read it all the way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3063	To dispose of their assets, i.e. they are not able to restore land law in the countries resulting from the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, they cannot be deposed from temporary accommodation facilities until they are made available with their assets.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3064	Keep reading.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3065	That is, until they were allowed to use an apartment where they had a tenancy until 30.6.'90. For years, except in case they're given adequate accommodation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3066	What am I here, who said someone couldn't get to their property? That last sentence says, "Find them something that they live too, I didn't mean anything else."
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3067	Sir, you know that this Parliamentary Assembly, and this decision cannot resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3068	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3069	It is not in her jurisdiction that it solves the adequate accommodation of refugees and displaced persons from other countries, and you know very well that this is not the way to resolve this issue and, in any case, I remain with what I have said. We believe that this issue is not adequately resolved under existing legislation, but by decision of this type, by us, cannot be resolved, because, among other things, the formulation states that such a decision would oppose the right of displaced, refugees from other 47 territories, other countries the right to return to the refugees and the right to use private property of people who have fled BiH territory. I am in the view that the European Convention on Human Rights must be applied, and I am ready, as I speak, to subject this decision to the procedure provided for in this Parliament. So, the Constitutional Commission should look at these decisions, the BiH Council of Ministers should look at it, but I am telling you in advance that this is not the way to solve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3070	I think they should be expelled, in your opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3071	Mr. Chairman, honored guests, esteemed colleagues, my discussion, after what counterpart Tokić said, is almost not necessary because I was just about to say a lot, but I will repeat only other words what he said, but before that, it was a replica of your discussion, but probably a colleague of Tokić had reported to the replica earlier. I want to say that we are obliged to seriously consider the Law in the proposed text, and I support it because it is time to once resolve the status of displaced persons in BiH and refugees. It is very difficult to talk about the individuals who experienced the fate they experienced during the war, became refugees and displaced faces, and speak whose right is beyond whose. However, by your decision you have not solved the problem of people whose apartments or whose rights have been entered by those from the former republics of Yugoslavia, because they have entered into apartments or property of persons who have the same status as them. You're just moving the problem from one apartment to another. I must remind, unfortunately, that in the previous Parliamentary Assembly, we had a discussion on how all those persons received citizenship and their citizenship was questionable. The question is whether your greater responsibility is to take care of the citizens of BiH or to take care of citizens who are not citizens of BiH and whose right is stronger, i.e. to assume that this last position, the last sentence, makes full sense, but you did not say that the funds for the accommodation will be provided to them, that adequate accommodation will be provided, from which funds. If you claim as you have said, counterpart Špirić said this is the cheapest way to get rid of it, it assumes that Europe has not found a way to find adequate accommodation, and we, BiH, which has such poor national income, have such a big heart and I am glad that we have a big heart to find the funds and find adequate accommodation for so many displaced persons. I support what my colleague Tokić said. This decision, if it has a constitutional basis, needs, first of all, to go to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to see if there is a constitutional basis that we are making, must give a solution in its decision to provide the funds, to have adequate accommodation, if we do so, we have solved the basic problem in BiH, a mutual return, or a two-way return of all persons to our own. In addition, housing problems, here, are intruded, are resolved by laws declared by a high representative and are directly delayed by the resolution of the law. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw your decision, give it to the Constitutional Commission and give the Commission its position. One more thing, though I didn't want to compromise on your amendments, because they may have, they probably make sense if you just accept the explanation that you said, especially when it comes to status, who has the status of a displaced person. However, if your argument were accepted, we would have one whole category of people who had, I will call it 48 organized persecution, declared that they were not refugees and displaced persons, because in certain areas people had to resolve all their obligations, to pay all the utility services to get permission to get out of that area. If we followed your explanation, we'd say they weren't refugees, because they had a passport, because they had a ID card and they had neatly paid all the liabilities communal, so they moved out of their apartments neatly, but you know, we know it's part and organized persecution. That is why I think that such arguments should be looked at a little deeper, or I think it is a good idea for Parliamentarian Tokić to declare first the Council of Ministers of BiH on your amendments. My proposal is that we now vote on the law as proposed, and amendments may come later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3072	I have to act as an MP, and not as chairman, I would never, as chairman, react to this. Please, there are some things in front of the public that I don't need to comment on, and I'd like all the television houses to carry them just the way they were said here behind this pay phone, because there's no need to comment or I intend to do it. I'm just going to say this. He suggests that gentlemen be passed a law where there is no money to make up for those, and others say there is no money, so he won't. One archin for one thing, another archin for another thing. Two people, and in the Constitution, sir, quite nicely writes all the faces in BiH, not all of them are said, but all of them, and you want to insist that one number of BiH citizens who came here by force of opportunity, all nationalities, one less, one more, and maybe that's a special problem, put out of the law. They're already in place. They're not in the law, they're nowhere to be found. I will not give up any amendments nor this decision, I ask that the BiH Council of Ministers also declare this, I repeat once again, under full responsibility, that I will seek the opinion of the International Court of Human Rights for what is happening here. This is a population that is not protected by anything, I claim that no one will mind, I claim that everyone should come on their own and it must be basic, but I also claim that freedom of choice must be respected, freedom of movement, the right to a home, so that is the European Convention on Human Rights, so that we write the Constitution. I'm not giving up any amendments, and I'm not going to answer again, I'm asking for a proposal to be made, not an individual. No, sir, I do not accept you, you are one of the deputy ministers and are not a member of the BiH Council of Ministers. I don't accept that. Please, sir, let me tell you, for me, there is a Council of Ministers of BiH, as a proposing, let it be spoken of as amendments, and it says that we will adopt the Law, and then we will remain, so what do you think, gentlemen, so what does it look like? I will not vote for it, I, as chairman, will now speak to you as an MP, and as chairman, I will act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3073	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, the draft law is on the agenda. On the agenda is not the decision proposed by Mr. Banjac. That decision, if we were to consider it, might be considered in the principle debate, since it was also not declared by the Constitutional Commission. Mr. Banjac has entered one, I must really say, contradiction. Namely, he does not allow his amendment to be declared today by the deputy minister, and thus this home, and accuses those who are asking that a motion for a decision that is not on the agenda be declared before the BiH Council of Ministers, as required by the law. 49 The third thing, since Mr. Tokić did not say it, is that I must try to be on duty here, so that I can point out the incorrectness of the charges against a political party by the MP Banjac, and about the status of certain people who are forceful in BiH. If anyone should be accused, then it should not be done towards the party, but perhaps towards neighbouring countries for the status of these people who are now in BiH, but I propose, one party has been mentioned, I suggest, given that Mr Banjac, as the amendment promoter, has made it clear that he does not accept the opinion of the deputy minister present at the session but the Council of Ministers of BiH, I do not think we can plead today on this law and therefore, if there is no more debate, which, however, is not my job, we can almost finish the session. As for a decision that was not even on the agenda, but on this point, I believe it would be a minimum of parliamentary correctness to refer it to the ordinary procedure and to the BiH Council of Ministers and to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We will therefore enter the procedure for resolving both the law and any decision, and without each other's charges that apparently one group wants to adopt without the other party wanting to solve it. Mr. Banjac, I think I helped you in the way this session could be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3074	Thank you very much. I have no intention of commenting. I think that viewers and listeners could only hear what I said and will see who is right, and who is wrong, I leave it to the public court and, of course, I do not accept everything that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I have said here, which the honourable MP pointed out, that I am seeking a statement from the Council of Ministers of BiH and one and another and I have nothing against, and, of course, the Constitutional Commission, I do not think that I am walking around the bodies of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3075	Mr. Chairman, I am also speaking on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, as the legislator of the law, which referred to the bill, which was fully agreed at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH. On the very proposal for a law addressed to the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives for adoption, I must say that two of the most relevant institutions dealing with, among other things, the issue of refugees and the issue of human rights, which are OHR and UNHCR, have delivered the most favourable opinion and have said that this law is at the highest possible standards for the protection of human rights, and in particular implementation of the Dayton Agreement, implementation of Annex 7. The Dayton Agreement and all conventions of which BiH is a signator. As for certain comments on this law that can be seen, possibly suspect, that, in some way, discriminatory character, I would like to say that this law has very precisely resolved the issue of returning people, the right to return, the right to return property, the right to return property, the right to return to property or the conscious property, whether it is private or social property that has been given to use and this law has given the right to an individual for the uninterrupted availability of that property. So anyone can do with their property whatever they want. He can use it, but first he has to be allowed into the possession of that property. He can use it, he can live in these houses, he can sell that property, if he wants, and he can replace it. This law is very clear and no right of people in the text itself is disputed with the decisions of the Law itself. 50 As regards Article 15, I would just like to explain, to give a certain answer to Mr Špirić about Article 15, such a solution as you now have in the text of the law, that is a solution that we can freely say that the arbitration decision of OHR and UNHCR, given that there have been certain, different opinions on the regulation of this segment, means, Article 15, as it says, that it has the right to return to the tenant's rights which it has given to a certain date and that it is settled under the positive and non-discriminatory laws of the entity, and we all know here well that these regulations have been properly harmonised, balanced, and even some have adopted by the Office of the High Representative in BiH. So the solution as it stands in Article 15 is a direct solution to OHR's arbitration decision. As for the possibility that three possible solutions or equal solutions of the Dayton Agreement may be treated in an unequal way, I would ask you to take a closer look at Annex 7, the whole first chapter that talks about principles, is about the right to return. The second chapter on the Commission's work on the property requirements of displaced persons and refugees detailedly regulates what people can do when they receive their property. So, let me explain and try to maybe plastically present a problem. No one who is a displaced person in the Federation of BiH today, without returning to RS, and doesn't even have to physically return that property, deny that property and ask the Federation of BiH entity or the RS entity to make it up to him fairly. A man can come back and take his property and dispose of it as he pleases. They want to use it, they want to sell it, they want to replace it, but they expect it and offer it in a legal solution, simply, I don't want my house in Sarajevo or Banja Luka, I don't want to go back there and the entity is obliged to make it up to me justly for that house, I think we can very hard to solve. There were certain intensities and international communities, including what Mr Špirić spoke about, about the Central Bank, possibly about the compensation fund, however, it is a fund that was to be formed by the property commission and it is not yet detailed, which does not mean that it may not happen one day. As for refugees from the Republic of Croatia, they are now in BiH. I think that, wanting, not wanting, maybe we've got a little bit of a mix of issues and topics. The law that we discussed about 15 or 20 days ago at the BiH Council of Ministers, in parliament and which unfortunately did not pass, the Law on Immigration and Asylum very detailedly regulates this issue and this problem, means refugees, citizens of other states who are now refugees in BiH, is regulated by that law. Almost half of the members of the law regulate the issue. The law regulates the issue of BiH citizens, whether they are in refugee status, so abroad or displaced persons here. However, I must do the following to inform all of you here. The UNHCR, which has the mandate, according to the Dayton Agreement and under aneks 7, has been very intensively involved in the drafting of this law and is responsible for the implementation of Annex 7, so far it goes to the point that they are also in charge of drawing up a plan for the return programme and the development of a programme of care and everything. Since the amendments were available yesterday, the amendments came, according to my information, and to the UNHCR and OHR, I am talking about the amendments forwarded to parliament and to the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Banjac. I have an answer, or letter from Mr. BERNER... the head of the UNHCR mission to BiH. And, if I may, I'd say, I'd like to read some information from here from that letter, at least a few key things. UNHCR has learned that the BiH Council of Ministers will also discuss proposed amendments to BiH's draft law on refugees and displaced persons in BiH during today's session. Draft law adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers on 23rd On September 51st 1999, it was the result of a nearly two-year process and was very carefully done to ensure that it is in line with the General Framework Agreement for Peace, meaning the Dayton Agreement and the international conventions of which BiH is signatories. UHHCR read the proposed amendments with interest, for the reason that they would change the principles of the draft law as a basis. Although due to the limited time that UNHCR has at its disposal we are unable to provide detailed and comprehensive comments on the proposed amendments, for the serious consequences some amendments may have, we wanted to share your concerns with you before making a decision, it is clear from the proposed comments that the draft law, if proposed amendments were adopted, would no longer be in line with the Peace Agreement for BiH, with international conventions of which BiH is a member and with positive property entity legislation. For this reason, the UNHCR encourages the BiH Council of Ministers to unanimously declare the bill addressed to parliament, as any other activity would cause additional and unnecessary delay in the adoption of the law. Based on the excellent co-operation the UNHCR had with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Council of Ministers in the draft process, I believe I can still count on your support and support for the draft law as adopted by the BiH Council of Ministers. This letter was sent today to Mr. Ašanin, Rečica and Ćorić, Mr. Volgan Petrič, Mr. Endi... and Mr. Johan... However, in addition to this letter, since we do not have time today, regardless of what they say is brief, key amendments presented here today are elaborated on both sides, and very much arguments are given, which is why these amendments should not be accepted at this time. If MPs want this information available, and if you want direct information, I can extract the most important and key things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3076	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Špirić, but Mrs. Muminagić has a discussion, but I haven't seen it. I would ask Mr. Rečica to deliver a letter to us to see who signed it, because he says we share your concerns, to see who signed the letter on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers, I also want the letter sent to the office, someone sent the letter. It says, you've read, sir, I share your concerns, which means someone wrote that he's worried, so I'm glad he's worried. I'm just suggesting that a letter be delivered.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3077	(speaks from place and no exposure can be heard)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3078	Gentlemen, I'm going to trace what Mr. Rečica said to distract me, I don't mind this law being called according to what the problem is. That it is called the Law on the Return of Refugees from BiH and displaced persons to BiH, but also, in accordance with the Dayton Agreement, to define the law if we are not already within the same law to give all three opportunities, to define a replacement, a law on compensation that will not be with one another in college. 52 I made six amendments here today, which. Unfortunately. They are not in writing, but in order to discuss such a complex problem once again, without emotion, without addressing that people or those citizens most concerned by this problem that, as conscious and responsible people, we try to find the best solution. I appreciate both the activity of the UNHCR and the representatives of the international community and everything they try to reach a compromise solution and a valid legislative project, but allow us to discuss it here and make useful suggestions. I'd like to be told where they're putting themselves here in the same position all three possibilities given by the Dayton Agreement, from member to member. I would like to be told why we gave up the formation of funds at the Central Bank, let the international community be seen, says no funds, so there is only one option left, but it must be made clear and made clear to those to whom it applies that the law is valid. I beg you, I do not believe that we will come to a legal project today, but in order not to, as a series of times so far, implore the adoption of such an important legislative project, let the Council of Ministers of BiH take another look at the amendments, let the Council of Ministers of BiH declare these six amendments which I do not see that they are and in what way they are controversial, which I have stated and to adopt the Law once. Nothing will happen tonight if you put this all to the vote and if we find that the law has not been passed, it is not a good path and it is not what we talked about last night when they were representatives from the European Commission. So last night we adopted a work programme, but here we come every time that we won't adopt the legal projects that we've come forward with. Leave time for the BiH Council of Ministers to declare the amendments and see if we can reach a legal project.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3079	Mrs. Perkanović, then Spahić, then Lagumdžija
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3080	Since it's a very sensitive piety involving nearly a million people who have been living in refugee status for years, which is, they're just refugees, they've lost their name and name, let alone property and everything else that goes with it. I suggest that this law is a little bit more work and that a law be passed that will satisfy every single man living in BiH. If we settle this issue in a satisfactory way for every man living in BiH, we will have BiH for the future of our children. If we fall on this issue, BiH will fall, believe me. The right of those people who have been in such a tragic situation for years must be respected. Here it is treated, in this law, indeed, well said Mr. Špirić, the most talk of return, no one asks most of these people what they actually want for those who claim to come back, is not proof. Secondly, I have here an objection to this law, in fact, one question to the ministers who have worked on this law. Here is mentioned in '91, April, for BiH refugee status, we know that the war began in '92. Is there an answer to why it's '91? I support Mr. Banjac's amendments and I join Mr. Špirić's view that we need, or within this law, to work on those two points of Annex 7 on the return and compensation of property, or to make two more parallel laws with this. As for funding, gentlemen, if we will, there is funding for people who are looking for accommodation where they are now. No Niko has the right to force these people to go anywhere for the fifth 53rd time. Many people are in the status of refugees behind which the garage stands, not that they don't have a house, they have nothing to live on. If there are funds for them, there are funds and they are built where they are now, not that infrastructure and everything, because we have complete settlements and places that are completely burned and destroyed. We wonder where the funds will be found for the construction and reconstruction of all these settlements, infrastructure and everything else. We take care of the human rights of each individual, not just one ethnic group or any other category. I suggest that this law be further worked and that it be left for one of the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3081	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3082	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to ask you to concentrate on the agenda that has been proposed, uniquely and with full agreement, this body called the Kolegijum and, if it is already proposed to discuss the Law, to discuss the Law, of course, of all possible amendments and interventions that have the right to be given by the Members of the Commission who are working on this issue. I'd like to concentrate on that law. Last time we had the Immigrant and Asylum Act, and we didn't pass that law. These are two basic laws to consider the basis for a civil society and to protect human rights and freedoms and people who are refugees from BiH and who are displaced, and people who have entered BiH on different grounds, and in every normal society, the basis to resolve this node, which is now trying to re-establish on the agenda of a law, to questions about the unadopted Law on Immigration and Asylum. I am sorry that we are constantly dealing with the Constitutional Affairs Commission. The responsibility of this council, this high-level home, is to notify that these issues are, by the way, related not only to the difficulty of passing the law, but to the difficulty of implementing the laws that we have, even with greater difficulty with the real life that we have in BiH. In this respect, the Commission would be obliged to discuss the issues of human rights and immigration and asylum in full terms what is called and what is the real life of people, except that the law has been adopted and unadopted. When there are no laws, it is known that the rule of life in BiH. Under the General Peace Agreement, as we all know together, the Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms at various levels, because it is part of the so-called the third basket, sometimes called in the OSCE, which has been developed now in several resolutions and which is directly applicable if there are no laws. Therefore, I would not want us to question the position of organisations that share power currently in BiH. On the one hand, it is our legislative and executive authority, on the other hand, that is the nominated representatives of the international community, whether it is, for example, the OSCE regarding the elections, and that it is UNHCR regarding refugees. The OSCE's undeniable role in the election today was the subject of our debate and attention. Let us show respect for the undisputed role of UNHCR and that is the essence of our position. I would ask that we first concentrate on a bill agreed and proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers. It is indisputable that the law does not, as I would say, in the BiH Council of Ministers, propose it in this form. That is, it is undeniable that there are representatives of all the parliamentary parties who are here, regardless of where relations are established. Therefore, until this alignment of the draft law there was no objection. Now and when that law is finally on the agenda there is, and that is possible, because it is businessly possible, but then the next question is asked. Then a competent institution should be involved, since we have nothing to ask the BiH Council of Ministers again, we can, but we should ask not the arbitration officer but the one in charge of 54 under the General Peace Agreement, according to Dejton, how does he feel about it. He, on the basis of the debate, as we have received an explanation in the Refugees and Displaced Persons Commission, means what Mr. Rečica said. I'm sorry he says that on behalf of the UNHCR. It would be correct if, let's say, if we needed one piece of information, we had amendments, let's multiply what Mr. Rečica plus these two pages read so that we could be reasonably determined according to Mr. Banjac's amendments, but also according to the reasons and views of the UNHCR. Since I do not see the basis for us to restore the BiH Council of Ministers to the starting position, when patiently over a year, for almost two years working on this law, so do not devalue the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH when something has occurred with the full unity and authority of its proposal, and now we have some new amendments to which, fortunately, the response from the UNHCR has arrived and I think we need to know that answer. What brought by a representative of the BiH Council of Ministers is another thing, but let's see the answer, there is probably, and signed and has a very correct attitude, etc., that's one thing. As far as the question goes, here, I'm done. I propose, since I have asked to make a statement about the law, I ask, given your amendments, that, because I do not see why the Council of Ministers will be discussing it, we are fully familiar with this text, let it multiply, I ask the College to order the sekretarijat to do copies of these views and to define ourselves in relation to the Law. Other additional discussions that you have made regarding the decision you have included in this debate on the law, please let me know, if I may have your attention. As far as I know, the international community, and I, that I am in its place, when the Law on Asylum and Immigrants in Parliament did not pass, which was indeed a devastating knowledge for me, probably has some reaction to it, as the UNHCR does. I ask that the College answer me if, after our non-admitment of the Law on Immigration and Asylum, there is some reaction and attitude of the international community, whether or not the UNHCR came forward, if you have any letters, any warning that this is one of the fundamental laws for entering the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3083	Please stop the debate. I'll take your word for it. Sir, Ambassador Lagumdžija has a word or was this a replica? Ten things he's talking about. Please, let's hear the MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3084	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, it's perfectly natural to have a rather serious debate on this subject. It's perfectly natural that a theme like this takes a lot of time and, unfortunately, it's logical that in this ratio of strength, we have, on some issues, not exactly the same opinions. I draw attention to a few facts, before I make my point and make a few suggestions. First of all, as far as I know, the MP, the MP, however you will, is not the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but is the promoter of the ministry, at least according to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I, as an MP, received it by post, 1.10 was admitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so 40 days ago by the competent ministry. We are proposing, as MPs, to which the ministry has the right, which is fine, and that is 55 reasons why I fully respect and wonder to you, Mr. Banjac, that you do not allow the Deputy Minister to state the relevant position. He's perfectly natural to defend, he's a deputy minister, I wish he was a different ratio. It is perfectly natural, according to existing Rules of Procedure and laws and established labour standards, that the deputy minister has the status of minister. I wish it were different. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary isn't here with the other deputy, but this debate would probably take a different tone, I hope, dying, because they agree on such a proposal based on what has come to us. But let's not fool ourselves. The question that we now have on the agenda is the issue of all issues in BiH already, here, almost the fourth year after the Dayton Agreement and there is no need to break anything over our knees, but we must try to get out of this one, as far as possible, in a way that is as close as possible to solving something, rather than staying in our positions and buying some points or not knowing what. I fully understand you, Mr. Banjac, who want to remain on the proposal of this decision. It is your right both human and parliamentary and by the Rules of Procedure, however, it is quite clear from this here that this decision, in this form that you have proposed, it cannot get most of it here, namely, it is seen from the discussion. You don't need to be very smart and know math. I'm against it, Mr. Banjac, that the problem we've recorded that exists, that we all know exists, that we'll sweep it under carpet by giving you the decision here, that decision won't be taken, it won't get most of it, and the problem will still remain unresolved, and we'll go with the tensions even more sharpened. You can, if you ask the Rules of Procedure for us to plead according to your decision, we are obliged to make a statement about it, but I am merely drawing attention that it will accomplish nothing, so you may calm your conscience, but the problem will not be solved. Also, if we accept what Mr. Rečica was saying, and there's no reason not to accept it, we commit to it, we are bound by the documents, what he said is the position of the ministry that is proposing. We can now do two things, or we can plead first on the proposal, and then on the amendments, those on which the proposings remain, or if the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, since there is also the co-chair who came in the meantime, if the promoter believes that there is something he can do about it. We have only two options objectively. I'm asking you to end this procedure. My proposal is independent of what we have now entered and that this has not happened, I think, and I suggest, Mr Banjac, no matter what the result of the further debate is, in a certain way, the competent ministry, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, not to give us information, but in some time to come up with some programme of measures and activities that mean what we should do to comply with the rules, which financial resources are potentially needed and which are the problems that are now recorded, which should be solved, because otherwise we will not achieve anything. I would also like to say, given that a very rough sentence has been said here, I am obliged to establish it and to manifest myself in it. Here it is harshly said, you can look at the stenogram, quoting you “should, in your opinion, banish these people” (70 to 100,000 people by the estimates your colleague said about which you do not know what they are, but I am talking about quotes). In the opinion of Mr Tokić, who, in the opinion of the SDP from which we both come, he and I and four other MPs, representatives in this home, in our opinion, should not be expelled from this country and, please, that such rough things here are not brought out in one atmosphere which, I fully understand that she has, in a certain way, impressed you personally, but, please, do not, please, that such things are being used here. I want to say that, as a political party, we stand at the point that the issue of refugees, a question that in 56 of this kind, which I have been present with in the last few hours, cannot be solved in this country. We can't handle it this way. We cannot solve with a story of procedure or a story of keeping our own conscience through suggestions that experience what they experience. Also, I want to say that our point of view is that no one in this country should be violated by any right. Especially no one should have the right to live wherever they want, to live wherever they want, and to have their own property. However, allow these rights to be exercised or realised to the extent that they do not touch those same rights of other people. It is evident that there are tens of thousands of people in BiH who do not know what to do with them because they came from other countries. That problem exists and we have to solve it, people. But that problem will also not be solved even if we adopt your decision. If we adopted that decision of yours, suggested here, we would, in fact, lie to people that they could stay where they are now, in other people's hands, that's the essence of the whole story. We'd lie to people, because they won't be able to stay there, that's perfectly clear. The question is whether it will last seven days, seven months or seven years. The longer it takes, the worse it takes for all of us and for those people. I appeal to you, Mr. Banjac, to try all of this issue together in the right way, to stop lying to people and try to get into the essence of the whole problem, which is the right for everyone to choose where they're going to live, including the right for people to choose the new location they're going to live in, but that new location implies that this location is not someone else's property. It's very simple. We don't think she's completely right about a colleague who said there are people no one asks, who wants to stay here, exiled, right now they like it, and they need to be allowed to come out of somebody else's house and nobody slows us down here. In this room, that principle applies to everything. He won't have anywhere to go if we continue to conduct these discussions. Then in the end, I didn't hear, Mr. Silajdžić?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3085	(speaks from place and no exposure is heard)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3086	Mr. Silajdžić, if I were you, I would at least get serious more on this issue and I would, Mr. Silajdžić, have abstained that as we speak of this, you are asking Mr. Chairman of any kind of intervention. I thank you, Mr. Banjac, for letting me say these few words and asking you to put the conclusion that I have proposed, too, on adoption, if there is any good will for him, if there is no good will, I am giving up that conclusion, but I appeal to you all, to the Council of Ministers of BiH, to show whether it is behind this. The conclusion is very simple to try, dear counterpart Banjac, to get from the Council of Ministers, in as urgent as possible time, information and programme as we can on what we are doing under this law and on this set of issues that are now open. If I have to formulate it for you, I'll formulate it, but the question is, is there a good enough will here for us to do it? If there's no goodwill, don't make the esteemed Secretaries suffer about what you and I have written here. The question is, is there any good will for us to do it, Mr. Banjac? If there is a good will to put in charge of the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers of BiH well, it is, if not, I draw my conclusion, but I urge you to go after the Rules of Procedure and try to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3087	Please, I wanted to make your proposal that you would formulate not to distort your thought, Mr. MP, because I don't want to distort anyone's thought or to take 57 of anyone's right to business, it doesn't occur to me, but I guess I have as many rights as others. You have a proposal, there's Mr. Rakić's answer, whether it's a replica or, I'd like to ask you to bring this to an end.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3088	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have come to the floor to try to find a compromise solution, so that we do not have the same situation as in the Asylum Act. I don't think it makes any sense for us to go into such discussions and that one important issue, a question of refugees that should not be specifically talked about how important it is, must once be given legislation in BiH. That is why I would like to join the part of Mr. Tokić's discussion and suggest that once again, the BiH Council of Ministers take a position on all these amendments and that a compromise be found there because I think that some things can be brought to an end and that this debate in which it is all clear tonight is brought to an end, and that next time, at the first session, there will be a debate on this matter and then we will vote on the Law, and I don't think there is any reason until then to find a real compromise, both the Constitutional Commission and the Council of Ministers and to come to what we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3089	Mr. Silajdžić, I apologize, Mrs. Rađević asked for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3090	Okay, I'll just say it for a second. As far as the BiH Council of Ministers is concerned, the BiH Council of Ministers has done its job. Here are all the variations we've been doing for two years. The BiH Council of Ministers has done its job. Everyone was in on it. All international organisations, two years working on it, this is the best we can offer. It is our proposal to adopt this in order to reach a law that is very important and all international organisations have accepted and until now, all comments and all suggestions are respected to the extent that we can all fit in. We all participated in this, for two years, the BiH Council of Ministers, as far as we're concerned, we're done, it's up to you now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3091	If you don't mind, Mr. MP, I'd like to ask you a few more questions. First of all, does that mean we shouldn't write amendments, because what we're going to write, you deliver, we have nothing to write. The second question, as a promoter, is whether you are all obliged to sit in the Council of Ministers of BiH and say, we accept this, we do not accept this because it is losing the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I suggest that you be the Assembly. I have more questions. I spoke to Minister Ašanin today who says he has no idea about the amendments and has not spoken at all, and he cannot speak quickly, and he says the Council of Ministers of BiH needs to be declared. Marko says, man. 58
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3092	If you're discussing as an MP, then come and discuss here. I have an answer to yours, if as an MP, if you're holding a session, that's a different matter, but as an MP from here. So let me tell you, as far as your two first questions are concerned, your remarks, we met last time, as you know, the BiH Council of Ministers did their job, we did everything we could. Now we don't have a full membership of the BiH Council of Ministers, I don't know what Mr. Ašanin says about it because he's not here today, unfortunately, we've been together, we've discussed this many times, we agreed that this is it. I urge you once again to accept this law so that we may have this. I'm afraid if it doesn't, we'll still have one situation like we do. I wouldn't talk about coming back, we're talking about one legal project now, as far as it's going to apply, that's another, how many people are going to come back and how they're going to come back, I have my opinion on it, now I won't, but if someone's interested, I'll say, but we're talking about this project now and our suggestion is that this project is adopted. I repeat, we're all working on it. All parliamentary parties are included there, all international organisations, all possible... You know what? Amendments can be proposed each time, one new amendment at a time. I, as an MP, suggest we make a statement about what we have here now. We can't make legal projects any more difficult. Do you know how long this is going on? It's been two years. There's no first time, sir, if we're going to speak as MPs. These materials were presented to everyone. Everyone was involved in making these materials. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3093	Thank you very much, Ambassador Rakić, is it a replica? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3094	Your discussion, Mr. Silajdžić, would be perfectly correct if this was a draft. You come out with a proposal to this House, without the right to amendments, remarks. So we can't argue like that. Come out with a draft, and then we can talk. This law came as a proposal and you want it to be adopted immediately. Let the heads cool off a little bit, maybe we'll all pull out of it, and we'll say, we accept that kind of project, but don't cut across our knees now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3095	Thank you very much. I, gentlemen, as chairman, want to ask you. I don't mind your asking you to come forward today about the amendments, of course I won't deny it. As I have the right to seek the opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH, so you have your right to say, we want to make a statement today. That's right. I have a proposition here. I want to define the proposal. Here, we're having a little consultation. Please, gentlemen of the Parliament, we have two suggestions. The first proposal to end the debate under this law and leave the Council of Ministers of BiH to declare and the Constitutional Legal Commission to declare amendments and to put it as a first point, or to continue at the next session, firstly, to finish it within seven days, this is the shortest possible time, this will be the College's position, because we will not meet just one point, we need to prepare more points to continue the work of the next session, we have a lot of work to do. 59 And a second proposal, to decide today both amendments and the Law. I have nothing, as I have the right, and I give it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3096	We got an opinion on the table today, and now I've looked at all the UNHCR answers to your amendments. I believe that you have the right to do so out, as an amendment promoter, here, seven days you have offered it, I think it is really one compromise logical, and that with what UNHCR has given us another comment, if you will, Mr Ašanin, the Council of Ministers of BiH, as you wish, I think it is correct, I would only ask you to conclude this point of the agenda, and as regards your proposal for a Decision, I think it is quite correct, since I did not have the opportunity to finish this when I was speaking for a pay phone, I would ask you to inform us, too, at the next session on the fate of your views, the College and this MP's home regarding the Law on Immigration and Asylum. I claim that, indeed, I am asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3097	You didn't let me bring this session to an end, because I didn't forget yours, I didn't want to answer a question that wasn't part of the agenda. Today the answer came to me, not to me, but to all three of us, multiplied and I wanted to multiply.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3098	Multiply it for us, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3099	I ask MP Špirić that you must deliver in writing because, people, you cannot plead if there is no...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3100	Maybe you didn't understand me, if you think you're postponing this law that was on the agenda today, which you suggested uniquely, I'm also asking you to go back to the Law on Immigration and Asylum, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3101	That's what we're gonna decide. We have a letter now, I'm talking about college now and putting it on the agenda. I have to go with the man. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3102	Here, I, on behalf of us as many of us here in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, can accept that we are reconsidering, if we are to do so after seven days, there is no problem. I have one question. Are we still going to do this? Will we wait two years for the BiH Council of Ministers to offer a draft to start thinking about it then? We know very well that everyone is involved, here, all the nations, if we have to say so, all the political factors in making these drafts. That the international community is also involved. We can't act like that. That when we come out with a proposal here, let's see it for the first 60 times, we're wasting our time like that. I'd like to ask you to agree on a way to work, we have a Constitutional Commission. We can consult with the Constitutional Commission all the time. People can attend the Council of Ministers when we discuss it, but we can't wait two years to come up with a proposal here and start reading that proposal, that only then we come up with amendments like we didn't do anything. Then why do we have representatives of political factors in the BiH Council of Ministers? Do they not inform you? You should be informed of what we are doing at the BiH Council of Ministers. That's why they're in front of the BiH Council of Ministers over there, not waiting here for the final text so we can start making amendments. It's not gonna happen. It can be delayed in seven days, 14 days as they delayed yesterday's package for three years, so we adopted it again. It's not good for anyone in BiH or for anyone. We need that. The work is holding us back, not only the Council of Ministers of BiH but also all the institutions, so I would ask that we agree on a way of working. That within the framework of the Constitutional Commission here or within the College, however you wish, we should agree that when we come out with a proposal, it should be known to the Members of Parliament, and not to get to know it when we bring the final text, because otherwise we are wasting a lot of time, and I accept seven days.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3103	Mr. Chairman, one procedural question. I apologize for my unintelligence. I am an MP in the Federal Parliament, in the Federation of BiH Parliament, there is a business plan for drafts, especially on the draft of the law, amendments to the College, i.e. the Administrative Service, and there is a certain time limit for these amendments to be delivered. At least, I mean, 14 days, I think, before the debate. We come here very often in a situation where we get amendments in oral or written form during the debate on the proposal. If it's defined in our Rules of Procedure, if it isn't, if we can arrange this procedure, it would be easier for us to work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3104	Once again, as an MP, I would like to answer this question and I would like to refer the question to Mr Silajdžić, as co-chair, can we, as Parliament, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, see the Work Programme of the Council of Ministers of BiH, signed by two co-chairs and one chairman? Can we see that?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3105	(speaks from place so you can't hear exposure)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3106	Did you three sign it? I know because I was informed last night that there was no deal and that it wasn't agreed, so I'd like to see, to clarify that, not to circulate the stories. Second, just to tell Mr. Rečica, the man asked. All authorised applicants for the submission of amendments to the acts under examination by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives may submit amendments in writing no later than the time specified for the start of the meeting of the House of Representatives at which 61 relevant proposals of the acts will be under review, meaning, as during the session, when the amendments to the proposals for regulations are accepted in the debate, it may be possible even during the session. Once again I want to be an MP, not now as chairman, if this house thinks it's a solution and this is a good thing what Mr. Silajdžić says, let's make a statement now, I don't mind, but please, you have two suggestions, which is why you're stalling. Let's get to the bottom of two suggestions, and we'll see what's been accepted. I have to accept it whether or not I want it. I can't take a man's word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3107	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to ask you, the chairman who turns every minute out here, I am now speaking as an MP, now as chairman, Mr Silajdžić, who speaks as co-chair, not to make a circus out of this institution and to realize that this is the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I understand that there is a Council of Ministers of BiH, has its political majority, has a parliamentary majority with which you need to negotiate, talk, but don't let us who haven't eaten onion or onion have been involved in this circus that we've been making for years, and, by the way, when you ask for an answer that you'll be doing so, you won't be able to work otherwise, because that concept that you act on is precisely this concept, the concept in which a little seriousness, the attacks of human rights have when gentlemen from the council, the Parliamentary Assembly sits down, as soon as they leave, turns everything. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a business session to be terminated because the promoter has requested a break to declare your amendments, he has made a concession. At this point, we have nothing more to discuss and I ask you that you, as chairman, hold to the height of your presidency position and do not abuse that position in a way that you can choose yourself, your own political option that I have a special opinion on, a better status than the members of other political parties and the honor of their political options in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3108	I, Mr. MP, as chairman of this House, ask you to respect me, as man and chairman, and then as MP, and circus, if you want a circus ticket, do it to yourself, and don't tell me here. I ask you to keep it to yourself, your dictionary, and please, I am publicly protesting this, you have repeatedly referred to me as the chairman, and you are giving me rude words that I have never directed, nor will I direct. Our cultures, the two of us, are very different. I'm glad you're right. Once again, I ask the promoter, are you suggesting this break?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3109	My suggestion was, as you've heard, that we accept this. Your proposal was seven days, or your MP Spahić, I don't know, and we accepted it. If it takes seven days, here's seven days. But there was one question here, and that is whether the BiH Council of Ministers has a programme. It's one very serious thing. As far as the BiH Council of Ministers' programme is concerned, you said you were informed he was gone. 62
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3110	If it wasn't signed, I didn't say it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3111	You know contracts can be made by phone and fax, there don't have to be signatures. At several meetings we concesively agreed on and with the international community and came to that programme, this programme was quite certainly accepted by all and it is in place, whether it has a formal or no signature, we have accepted this programme and that is well, it is one step forward.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3112	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3113	We'll take seven days. The promoter has accepted for seven days, I am informing you, we interrupt the session here and continue, there will be no parliamentary questions, because it has been interrupted. 63
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3115	You had the agenda in front of you, just find it now. We came to that agreement to suspend the debate on the BiH Refugees and Displaced Persons Bill proposal in BiH, until we get the position of the BiH Council of Ministers. He's right, he's an MP. We were on the 13th, and we weren't on the 12th.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3116	Gentlemen, since we were on our way to work with the 12th session, we interrupted the 12th session on the agenda of the Refugees Act, and then we said, that was my proposal, to try to bring certain amendments to the law within 7 days. Before we start working on the 12th session, I propose adding the agenda, meaning that after the Refugees Act, under item 4, there is a verification of the loan agreement between the European Community, as a lender, and BiH as a borrower. I believe that I have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to extend the agenda during the session and, on the basis of the request made by Minister Kurtović, I suggest that it be classified as a fourth point and that the fifth point be parliamentary issues that we have not exhausted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3117	It's a suggestion and go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3118	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the SDP Club stands with the same argument and the same reason he is not prepared to accept this point as at the 13th session. We do not change from half an hour to later, we are not ready to accept this item of the agenda and we do not think it would be right that after the debate we had a lot of the 13th session, we are now re-opening this issue in terms of the content of the debate, as much as we agreed that even after the debate, the chairman, on this law is over, because all we need is a statement from the Council of Ministers of BiH and a statement...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3119	That's true, that's not controversial. We heard Mr. Tokić's attitude and thank him very much for being so brief and concise that we know the attitude. However, I am obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure, to put the motion for a vote on the enlargement of the agenda. There's a 23rd in the O.R. Please, I ask you, who is it for to include under agenda 4 giving consent to ratify the loan agreement between the European Community and BiH? 64 I'm asking you, who's in favor of putting the reading point of the agenda as point 4 of this sequel? 14. Thank you. Who's against it? 4. Abstained 5. - 4 because one came out. Then tell me. 22. Four are restrained, keep track of it in the future. Let's vote entityally. From the RS, who's in? 5. From Federation of BiH 10. The point is included in the agenda. The 4th item of the agenda is to give consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between the European Community and BiH. Moving to point 3. Ad.3. A statement on the amendments to the BiH Refugees Act and displaced persons in BiH The representative of the BiH Council of Ministers will give an explanation on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3120	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the parliaments, the BiH Council of Ministers held a session today to discuss, among other things, the amendments to the BiH Law on Refugees and displaced persons in BiH. Representatives of OHR and UNHCR also attended the session. We, within the Ministry itself, have carefully considered the amendments that have arrived. I repeat, the Law itself has long been brought into line within the framework of the BiH Ministry and Council of Ministers and in a very narrow, close co-operation with the UNHCR and OHR and the proposal adopted and sent to parliament by the Council of Ministers is the result of a consensus in the Council of Ministers of BiH, which, I must say, has been reached with a number of compromises and even sometimes the arbitration decisions of the OHR, however, which we have all adopted. At today's session, the BiH Council of Ministers discussed the amendments and took into account the unanimous position of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, meaning that the minister and his two deputies, who made the decision and proposed to the BiH Council of Ministers, would not accept the amendments they had received and that parliament would ask to accept such an agreement with the draft law that had already been sent to parliament. In particular, we had in mind the additional opinion of OHR, a letter from the OHR sent on 22.11., meaning, on the eve of the UNHCR mission chief in which, since 10 November, which refers to amendments and those two letters and international organisations, we supported it, insists that the Law be adopted in the form in which it was sent to Parliament, given that, according to our assessment and assessment of relevant and competent international institutions dealing with this problem, the adoption of these amendments would lead to serious non-compliance of such a law, which would include these amendments with the Dayton Agreement and, in particular, with international conventions, primarily human rights conventions and the Convention on Refugees of 1957 and the Protocol of which BiH is the signator and BiH accepts. So, I repeat, the Council of Ministers of BiH has taken this amendment seriously, however, a unanimous conclusion has been reached today that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not accept this amendment and remains with the proposal that it sent and we ask you once again to respect our explanation and explanation of international organisations, means the letter of the OHR and the UNHCR and that Parliament adopts the Law in the form in which it was sent. Thank you very much. 65 It would now be my turn to declare the amendment's proposings. Since there is no Mr Špirić here, I cannot speak for him, but I can speak for myself and speak for myself as an MP. I ask you, gentlemen, I respect the great concern of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the great concern of the international community on the fate of the Dayton Peace Agreement and on respect for human rights in BiH. Of course, it was just my goal, and it was through certain amendments to strengthen that concern, and, behold, at the same time, to improve the human rights situation in BiH, which, according to many, is not satisfactory, so let's start in order. I can also accept not to accept the position on the first amendment, but I am surprised that, apart from a number of experts, it is not so terrible, and very qualified people, no one will say that it is a much nicer name of the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. That's it again, I have a feeling, really, that sometimes here it's necessary to come to a conclusion that we accept everything someone else proposes, so we don't come, but we just do, live. We make one conclusion, then we don't have to be present. We suggest that everything that comes to us is accepted and that we save this country's costs and many things and these long debates and the loss of nerve and time. I personally think it would be good if the Refugees Act were called the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, however, the promoter will not, it sounds better that way and I can accept it that way, it's not so bad. Our evasive faces have much uglier experiences than they will be the name of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3122	Chairman, the debate is over. Do you warn me, and the chairman, behold, the messenger does not accept it. As for Amendments 2, 3 and 4, I can accept that, well, you think you want a little more power, so you take yourself as a right, as a Council of Ministers of BiH, to take, well, take it more power, that's no problem, so I can give up. But I truly must ask you what it is that bothers you with Amendment 5, which tells you the compensation for the property, I can voluntarily request the refugees and displaced persons from the competent authorities of the entity. What bothers you, gentlemen, is that our people who have been hit by the greatest tragedy in this century have the right to seek compensation. I'm not giving up any of this amendment, and I'm very happy to see who votes against that amendment and I will never give up that amendment. I'm talking about all people here, because they're all equally pathetic and equally unfortunate. I can accept, too, that we go faster, without a lot of stories and give up on amendments 6, 7 and 8, but, gentlemen, I can't give up on Amendment 9, and you forget that you were participants in the New York Declaration that I have before me, which defines what I know, you have before you and you were involved in its creation, that you would not accept that besides the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications on the return plan of refugees are led by care and by the competent entity ministries. So what do we need these entity ministries for? Why do we need these entity ministries if you're going to take over everything? I'm not giving up any of that amendment, and I'm interested in whether or not we are, if we're not, then let's suggest that we end these ministries, that we give everything to civil affairs and communication to work, so I'm not giving up on that amendment either. When it comes to, gentlemen, Amendment 10, I can only give up a part of that amendment that shouldn't carry a single shred of doubt that this amendment wants to deny someone's right to return to their property. Not at all. I don't want to. And so that even the most minimal part of the doubt can be ruled out. I only give up a few words. The amendment would now read, "The refugees and displaced persons who voluntarily express a desire for material compensation of property cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property." It's not standing here and don't accidentally be attributed to me as I think they should stay in someone's houses without the owner being able to come back - it's not true. I want those people who don't want to come back to have the right to temporary accommodation and get them local authorities where they are, and they can't stay in someone else's house and distract another from being in their own house. It's basic human rights, freedom of life and choice of place of life. It's one of the rights of the Convention on Human Rights. And, too, I don't accept the OHR's explanation that he didn't understand me. To say I'm contesting my return. That's not true, and let them take a good look at what I wrote, so they'll see it's not true. All I'm asking is that those faces aren't on the street until they realize their right to compensation guaranteed by the Dayton Peace Agreement, and in no way do I support them, and once again, I'm undermining, that they're taking away other people's property and that they're keeping them from returning, so I'm not giving up on that amendment, and I'm based on basic human rights. It's freedom to choose a place of life and on the Dayton Peace Agreement that says they have the right and the compensation. Thank you very much. I stayed, and I don't give up on three amendments. When I took my word, why does the Council of Ministers of BiH have no statement on the decision on the status and position of the refugees in BiH that I delivered? Why, gentlemen, did you deafen yourself from the Council of Ministers of BiH about the unfortunate people who also had to flee to BiH because of their faith, race, national belongings, political opinions, social positions? What do you think of that? You don't have to accept, gentlemen. But tell me what you think of these people. I will never, ever, ever give up on how to regulate this issue, as the honourable MP Tokić said, the equality of citizens, and therefore the refugee, or escaped the face of a citizen and a member of a certain people, and I don't know what not. Let's also give these people the right to be under the roof, and no, and please, I ask you to explain to me why there is no statement in the Decision. Since we don't have a lot of options, there's no need to discuss it. We've concluded the discussion. Does anyone need to comment on the amendments? If not, I said what I gave up and what I didn't. Amendment 1. Is there a quorum? Don't get up to three too much. Really, gentlemen, I'm afraid that we here, and we're counting, so when it's thick then we slowly do immigration, it's moving inside. Can we take a half-hour break now? 15 to 3 to be here. If it doesn't, we'll split up. I apologize to you from the Council of Ministers of BiH, I did not harm you. I suggest we first hear from the Secretariat how many MPs there are in the hall. - 15 67 I just want to say a few things, because we have that conclusion, let's respect that too, we said we'd wait 15 minutes at the most, let's respect that, too. You asked around that introduction order that we'd wait 15 minutes. It's five to three now. He's got five minutes left. We'll wait five more minutes. Mr. Mirković, if the MPs were to go deaf about coming, then it would be ugly. - There's a quorum. There is, great. You can see it wouldn't work, but check it again, please. - 22 Thank you. We have three amendments, conditionally, in fact, I apologize, four with a name. Let's go make a statement. We don't have anything, there are 22 MPs in the hall, enough for a quorum. I haven't given up on four amendments, these are Amendment 1, Amendment 5, Amendment 9 and Amendment 10, where I partially gave up, to lose any doubt that there is a intention, that I want to challenge someone's right to return to my property. In any case, I never wanted to, nor would I want to. If I'm wronged, Ambassador Tokić, I'm sorry, I have no evil intentions, I'm one of the evasive faces, I don't want anyone to share my fate. Amendment 1 reads "That instead of the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH is called the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH". Simply one language improvement. Who's in? 11. This is good. Did anyone count when he raised his hand? We don't have half, or for, this is the status quo. This didn't even go away. Let's try again to call it the Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH. Simple language improvement and nothing else. If you don't want to, you don't have to. Who's in? Ten. Now we know it didn't pass. This amendment has not been accepted. Amendment 5 reads "That in Article 13, in Article 1, third row, after the wording of the property, the point is to delete the text "which cannot be returned to", because it is a totally unclear formulation and to add a new position that reads "The compensation for the property can be voluntarily, expressed by will, sought by the refugees and displaced persons from the competent authorities of the entity", means "the compensation for the property can be voluntarily, expressed by will, sought by refugees and displaced persons from the competent authorities of the entities". Who's in? - 7 there's no need for that either. In Article 22, firstly, after the word "communication, Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications", add the text "and the competent entity ministry", given the recently signed New York Declaration, in which the job is given to both the refugee and displaced persons of the entity. Who's in? - 10 There's not enough number. Amendment 10. "The refugees and displaced persons who voluntarily express a desire for material compensation of property cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property." So it's about the right, not that they have the right to stop where they are now in other people's homes, but the right to temporary 68 accommodations, and not on other people's property. I underline here that the essence of words is right, that they have the right to temporary accommodation until they do. Vito Rakić wants something.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3125	As far as the amendment is concerned, he may have a right to consider, you know, according to the Rules of Procedure, let us clarify that, too. In line with the Rules of Procedure, if the MP thinks he can work something out, he can come to the phone. So, if that's what this is about, I allow the word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3126	Gentlemen, I have simply answered the word on this amendment, because I believe we cannot leave in heaven or on earth a certain category of refugees and displaced. Why do I say that? So, where it's found that property cannot be returned, where property is destroyed, where that displaced face cannot be returned, because it has nowhere to go. So that displaced face must have some right bar on, here it's said for temporary accommodation. I think we'd have to look at it because people like that aren't that small. I think if we want to change this formulation, so let's say refugees and displaced persons who have earned the right to material property compensation cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation, or not to say it can't be denied. They have the right to temporary accommodation, and it's not meant for temporary accommodation to be someone's private house, it's a temporary accommodation that entities organize for all those categories that don't have accommodation. I don't think we have the right to bring, to leave this category, not define something in this sense. And that's why I just wanted to intervene, and I think it's humane and that's how we define it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3127	Thank you very much. Since I'm the amendment promoter, I have the right to say something to that effect. Dear Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, If this Parliament has the right, and has, to deny the right to refugee and displaced persons to voluntarily request compensation for their property, if it has the right to put aside the decision on the refugee return plan, yes, it means that it excludes one ministry of entity and another ministry of entity for these matters, and, behold, it has not adopted that amendment either. If he has the right and to avoid persons, apparently, take away the right to temporary accommodation, I am, gentlemen, amazed by the state of human rights in BiH, I mean, Your Honor, I have the right to do so as an MP, and not as chairman, I am amazed and will personally address the European Court of Human Rights with amendments and the Law and I will ask whether a state can be admitted to the EC that is deafening about this. The Council of Ministers of BiH has new statements on my amendments after the meeting. Please, I can't stop this, it's really not business, it would be trouble, I can't do it. We're voting on the amendment you just heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3128	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know how important it is for the adoption of this law, first because of the exiled refugees and displaced persons, and secondly as a condition for our admission to the Council of Europe. The last amendment you have read, where the MP responded that we must maintain the right of those who are in temporary accommodation to have a last name until they find some, or adequate accommodation, or until they return to their homes. My question would be if you could give some time limit to this temporaryity?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3129	Until he can make it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3130	But when it will be, that this temporary does not become permanent.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3131	It can't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3132	I ask you and the others, what does it mean to be temporary, is it a year, five, ten and 100?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3133	It says everything here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3134	Read this last one to me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3135	If you'll allow me, as chairman, to read it so we don't change behind a pay phone right now. The evasive and displaced persons who voluntarily express their wish, meaning, voluntary expressions of desire for material compensation of property, cannot be denied the right to use, right - I underline this, the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property. 70
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3136	I didn't mean that amendment. I meant the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3137	That was the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3138	Then it was the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3139	No, it's the same.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3140	We didn't vote on Amendment 10. We didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3143	Okay, that's something else. I don't give up on the amendment. We found ourselves in a stalemate position. Shall we, MP, hear it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3144	Chairman, that I might, after all, accept the interpretation of the amendment made by Mr Banjac and under which the focus is on law, and to remove the negative implications of such an accepted amendment and remove the dilemmas in the sense that temporary accommodation can also be treated as being a person in the house for five years and to extend the status of his temporary use of the house, I suggest that it be specified in the sense that he is in charge, but who is now obliged to ensure this temporary accommodation, to be precise. Yes, people who, a little ungrably formulate, willingly by their own free will, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3145	No, not willingly, but voluntarily, because it has under pressure expressed and voluntarily. 71
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3146	Feel free to express yourself.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3147	Sure, it's not a dispute, Mr. MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3148	Who asked for a return. Until the return of his property is due, who is now in charge of the international community, the Council of Ministers of BiH, etc.?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3149	It says there. Entities are due.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3150	But remove the reasons for doubt that anyone who is in another person's house may require it to be treated as temporary accommodation and remain there for a hundred years.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3151	Here, now the Social Democrats will call me if I'm not in favour of compromise. Here, I accept what Ambassador Neimarlija said, I want to remove any such thought. I add, under temporary accommodation is not considered abandoned property and what else do we want? Here, gentlemen, let's get this out of the way. Here we go. It's okay with someone else's.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3152	Can the BiH Council of Ministers help us?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3153	Tokić wanted to, then Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3154	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, since the debate, unfortunately, has opened up, I would like to clarify the position of the SDP on this law. We are not satisfied with many solutions in this law, but we have expressed our satisfaction that the OHR has managed to put pressure on the Council of Ministers of BiH finally to propose to this House of Representatives one of the legal projects, and given the pace at which the Council proposes its legal projects, we considered it a unique opportunity to adopt at least 5, 6th law this year. In this context, the SDP stands at the point of accepting possible changes in the opinion and attitude of the Council of Ministers of BiH regarding the bill and, in this context, we are prepared, not returning, it was quite wrong, because we are going too far in the past, we have a 13th and 12th session, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, as its new proposal, proposes possible changes which it believes should be installed in this law 72, as well as SDP MPs, will be ready to support such a proposal, given the need to be in the VE as soon as possible. At the same time, we assess the very incorrect labelling of the alleged amendment that has been accepted or not accepted, from the aspect of respect for or non-compliance with human rights, since all these amendments have been declared, in addition to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and representatives of international institutions that are sometimes wrong, but are generally adhered to by European Conventions on Human Rights. I welcome the initiative of the President and MP Banjac to certainly, wherever there is an indication that basic human rights are being violated, yes, of course, to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights and, in that context, they will also have our support, because human rights must be respected here. I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we make a statement on the amendment that has been formulated and that we hear a statement after the accepted or unaccepted amendments, an official proposal from the BiH Council of Ministers, and I encourage them to agree that whatever they have agreed, in addition to this conformist behaviour, delays in the session, waiting out of the way. We are ready, not because of them, because they, of course, have long lost their sense of commitment, but because of the people, the refugees, who are banished to accept such solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I want to warn you of your amendment so you don't turn out to be inconsistencies in the end. You are in Amendment 5, look at the material that has not been accepted, because we voted on it, asked to include refugees and displaced persons, paraphrase, clearly, voluntarily, I can ask the entity for compensation. That didn't go away. At the same time, in Amendment 10, we are talking about those persons who asked to stay in temporary accommodation. So, we've already resolved that dilemma by amendment 5. They have no right to ask. So, what are we going to decide now anyway?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3156	Great. Thank you very much. We have come into a chain circuit, which, indeed, by not adopting Amendment 5, we cannot adopt Amendment 10, because it is not in force. I accept Mr Neimarlija's suggestion where he says "other people's property" and I agree with that formulation, but then we must return to Amendment 5. So it's not a dispute. What's left of me? It remains for me, I, indeed, with my true wish, accept the addition of Members of the House of Neimarlija and propose to vote in favour of such an amendment. Who's for Amendment 10? It's time to make a statement. Then the BiH Council of Ministers in line with the Tokic proposal. Who's in? - 9 No required majority, no need. So no amendments have been accepted. Now let's hear from the Council of Ministers of BiH. Now I'm asking you. It's a groundless debate. You can only, as the Council of Ministers of BiH, propose amendments without mentioning my name, because my amendments have not passed, because that's why they come out with amendments as proposings. So I can't talk about my amendments, I can talk about... 73
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3157	Since Parliament has found that there are no amendments to the law proposed by the BiH Council of Ministers, then we must remain in the text we have proposed, as there have been no new preconditions for changing votes in the meantime. We've had certain views on the amendments. I apologize for the little delay, but, however, allow us to go a little deeper into the text of the law, because it is not only an amendment in one article, it is pulling back a series of amendments and we have indeed been prepared and we have suggested that of these three amendments, proposed by Mr Mirko Banjac, that we propose their acceptance to certain interventions. However, by declaring Parliament, practically, we have now lost these amendments, and in this context, the Council of Ministers of BiH has nothing but to remain but in the text proposed and agreed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3158	Mr. Vice-President, there is a Council of Ministers of BiH possibility, not to mention my name, so you can use the text, because I won't intervene, if that's what it is, but you have to say, we're going out with the proposed improvements based on the discussion we've heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3159	Mr. Chairman, since the procedure has passed under the Rules of Procedure, the only variant is, and since there is the possibility that at any time of day and night an amendment or supplement may be proposed, that someone else should propose these amendments, so that we may make a statement about them instead of yours, and that it may be about another representative.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3160	If we care about adopting the Law, and I do, I suggest that someone formulate these three amendments from MPs from the order of the Serbian people or any nation, it doesn't matter to me, I said I don't care who, and come back in five minutes, but not to leave, to adopt this important law. Honestly, as an MP for this Assembly, please, gentlemen of the international community, I ask you, as an MP, to see what is happening in this House and to inform the international public and your organisations, when we want with the greatest effort to adopt certain legal acts, see how anyone behaves and write it correctly in your reports. [[PAUZA]] Thank you. I interrupt this session for lack of quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3161	It's clear to me that, obviously, it's very difficult for us to keep working, even my request for a certain break seems to me to just prolong the agony. I have a second suggestion. Given the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers, on the occasion of Mr Banjac's amendment, has decided to accept the amendments in part, I think the fastest 74 procedures for the adoption of the Law could be given to the Council of Ministers of BiH, I think that the BiH Council could formulate these amendments as its own proposal, making them an integral part of the Law and voting integrally on the whole of the Law. All of this can be done within a relatively short period, if the BiH Council of Ministers is ready to formulate its amendments to the already unvoted amendments of Mr Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3162	Since we have a quorum, I gave the floor to Ambassador Kadić before the session was concluded, while another MP came and a pause was sought. Do I want to make a statement? Stop being nervous. I think we're tired of being nervous. Is there a CD Coalition left in search of a break? Thank you. We'll continue at half past four. We can stay here, this won't be a break exactly... There are 22 MPs present in the room, and there will be words before, and you will have the opportunity to speak. I have an announcement from the MPs that they want to speak. poslanik Deretić, Here we are already losing the quorum.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3164	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, at least so far I've tried to be a principled man, if I'm not mistaken, I'm asking you nicely to disprove me. Did the chairman just conclude this session? I ask you nicely to read the stenogram publicly, i.e. let it be heard. The sitting was closed, and then an MP came in, and then the chairman gave him his word. Here's a stenogram, let's listen and see if I'm right or wrong. For me, this session is closed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3165	Replica Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3166	I'm asking you that we have to be principled here. As far as I know, Mr. Banjac first announced a break and when the break started, there was no conclusion of the assembly or anything else. Therefore, Mr. Banjac, who in effect made a lapus, cannot be accepted and there is no reason to continue the work of the congregation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3167	Is it supposed to go on or not?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3168	You couldn't close the session on your break. 75
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3169	Balta, is this a replica or isn't it? No, please, I didn't give Mrs. Balta my word, so then...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3170	Since I've been calling today, of course, I'm not going to say hello to you three times, but I have to say one thing. I am not ashamed of the international community, nor of the OHR or of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, but I am ashamed of myself when I allow this smile from today's assembly, which is held by the hand of the MPs to have a quorum, it is a sign of something else, a will to work, or a desire for unhappiness. If you can hide behind someone else's back, I certainly won't allow it. There are rare sessions, perhaps one due to the death of my absence. I ask you nicely, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the international community, this is a law that is very important, at least to me, refugees from Sarajevo. This is a law involving thousands, hundreds of thousands of people in BiH. This is a law that will allow someone to live as a man, as they have learned from the outbreak of war. This is the Law that will enable individuals to return to their homes, to their apartments, and, unlike those who have learned to live happily in three apartments, to move away from that possibility of using them. This is a law that is clearly against the will of the Social Democrats. Can one MP turn, if nothing, I wanted to leave now, revolutionized, of course, with this relationship to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You have to state that this congregation is doing, I've already asked it today, or it's hiding behind the scenes, pulling by the sleeve when the quorum is right, and when it doesn't answer. Please, as MPs, determine in principle whether you're up for it. I'm for what I make from beginning to end. So I'll never do something that's past me, but also don't hide behind some civil parties, behind some multiethnic parties, behind something we want for the people of BiH well, so you know there's no such thing. There is no unit of measures for the endangered people of BiH who are where my loved ones are. That applies to you, too, Mr. Malkić, because you weren't there for a while, and we were expecting that law, so you came at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3171	I didn't mean to replicate, but I have to, until I'm ready to go out, there's a reason. For Madam MPs, just to remind her that we have made it very clear and loud that the SDP Law is in line with the Council of Ministers of BiH's acceptance. There's nothing to argue about, and there's no roadblock. So the Social Democrats Act fits. Now I'm gonna say, that's what I was going to do. I have great respect for the chairman and the rest of you. I respect your time, let us all respect each other. Here are the victims who arrive in time for the session and sit down until the end of the session. Meanwhile, certain gentlemen MPs go, go, return, etc., they probably have other obligations. The chairman allows, and it's on his soul, and that's why I won't wait until the quorum is over, allowing five breaks to gather. It's wrong, in my opinion, the way you run the session. I don't want to be the victim here and my time and my unfinished business because others have other obligations. The chairman of these terms should agree with them and schedule a session for us when people are free, if that is a method, and I don't think it's a method, or break up a session when most MPs have other obligations, so that we can all get along nicely. We who come from far more distant places, we become prisoners of the busyness of a certain number of MPs. I, the chairman, please, and now I'm telling you 76 very frankly, ask you to come out with a vote regarding the law. If you don't come out with a motion quick to vote, you'll lose the quorum, because I'll be gone and probably someone else, but you can't accuse us of obstructing the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3172	As Mrs. Muminagić comes out, I'll just say, because as chairman, I'm being directed. I didn't expect you, MP Divković, to criticize me so much, because we were alone in the O.R. together today while we were waiting for others to come. I didn't expect to be criticised for my intention to adopt laws that matter to this country, that I would also experience criticism because of this intention, but, well, that's what's happening.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3173	I would ask fellow MPs that if we cannot agree any law, any amendments, any text until a plea, not to give their courts who obstruct the law. This is the second time that's happened here. At the beginning of the debate on this law, the SDP made it clear that it should be adopted. Therefore, there is no one right to say that we will not and that we are not in favour of passing the law. I can say the same for each and every one of you, which is what we're giving amendments if we're about to pass the law to, uh, obstruct. People want what they think is to be solved, and so do we, who we think should be solved, have made our proposals. We were at the beginning, you forgot, that was a long time ago, made clear about this law. Therefore, you have no right to weigh those words here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3174	Thank you very much. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3175	I didn't say the way you presented it. It was true that we lost the quorum when Ambassador Sejfudin Tokić left the assembly. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3176	Please, gentlemen, I think that you have apologized, that you have replicated yourself, that we give our word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH to state the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3177	Ladies and gentlemen, honored MPs, I will just try to briefly say what the Council of BiH is doing, considering Mr Banjac's amendments, proposing to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, in the sense of saying now, improving the text of the Law by the basis of its amendments. In this respect, in the context of Amendment No 5 and Article 13 of this proposed law, the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH is that paragraph 1 remains fully as it was written in the Bill's proposal and that paragraph 2 which reads as it was in Mr Banjac's amendment. Therefore, “The compensation for the property can, on a voluntary basis, request refugees and displaced persons from the competent authorities of the entity”. As regards the amendments that we have also considered as a potential consideration of the text, this is amendment 10, where we propose the following – that after Article 27, not after this 28, but after Article 27, a new Article 28 is added, which reads: “The refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and displaced persons who voluntarily express their desire for material compensation of property cannot be denied the right to use temporary accommodation until they make a material compensation for private property”. So, the text of Mr. Banjac. And we add item 2 which is in the spirit of what Mr. Neimarlija spoke about, and it reads as follows: “temporary accommodation cannot be achieved by using private property or apartment on which there is a tenant right of persons who are in the status of displaced persons, i.e. refugees from Bosnia and Herecegovina”. You know what the goal is. So, in that context. And then the next, normally, that Article 28 becomes Article 29 and so until the end of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3178	Can you answer me one question? I accept your interventions, to reduce the pain immediately, if I have the right to accept it, because it has already been voted. Why did you disobey Article 22, because you were the one from the Council of Ministers who signed a declaration in New York, which, literally, says that in the status of solving the problem of displaced persons and refugees will be involved in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and the relevant entity ministries. Why didn't you accept that? Nothing else. Because there are these ministries.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3179	These ministries exist and are mentioned in some other articles that have their own obligations when it comes to providing conditions for return, then financial, law tracking, programmes, etc. And in this section, it concerns, first of all, the organisation of return, communication with countries that have received people, how to proceed with this procedure, etc. And normally, in the Law, you know there's a refugee return program that we make up with coordination with entity governments and resolution ministries. So they're involved in that process, but through that part.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3180	Okay. Thank you. Please, I'm closing the debate. You heard the proposed improved text of the BiH Council of Ministers, not my amendments No, no, please, that's not true. [[STAMMERING]] Because there's a change in that text, and I'm not asking for the copyright to stick to it. Please, it becomes an integral part of the law where they're proposing, not me. Please, how many MPs are in the O.R.? 22. Please, who's for the proposed law with the improved text? The vote was 19. Opposite 1. Supported 2. Please, by entities. Republika Srpska, who's in? 8 from the Federation of BiH? 11. 78 I find that the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons, under that name, has been adopted. Please, we have a decision that I have offered regarding this conclusion. I ask the BiH Council of Ministers to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3181	When it comes to the text of the Decision, the BiH Council of Ministers accepts the text, adding in Article 2, the same attitude we added, which explains what temporary accommodation is. As it was in the law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3182	Let's read it so he can get into the stenogram, too.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3183	It reads: “Temporary accommodation cannot be achieved using private property or an apartment on which there is a tenant right of displaced persons or refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. ”
ParlaMint-BA_1999-11-10-0.u3184	I accept the improvement of the text, as a promoter, and they accept the decision by improving the text. I ask you, who is for the decision with improved text by the Council of Ministers of BiH? The vote was 16. Against? One, abstentions? Five. Thank you. By entities, Republika Srpska? I thought Malkić were from the RS, too. Eight's in. From the Federation of BiH? Who's for the Federation of BiH? (numerators - eight) I found nine. Come on, please, from the Federation of BiH, who's ZA? Eight voted Z. It's a decision to make. What we can do, that's it. Okay, let's move to the next point, giving consent to ratifying the loan agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Does anyone need to talk? There isn't. Who's in? 19. Who's against it? One. Restraint two. 79 please, by entities. From Republika Srpska? There's a need for most of them. From the Federation of BiH? Ten. There's a need for most of them. Thank you very much. I agree that the loan agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina has been ratified. Moving to the final point of the Parliament's question Are there any parliamentary questions? There isn't. I'm closing the session, thank you very much. The session is over at 4:00.
