ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1893	I am opening the 9th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For today's session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in addition to the MPs, it was called: members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, co-chaired, vice-chaired and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the Far Programme, representatives of the US Embassy's political department in Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[intonating anthem]] I thank those present who have had the time and will to come to our session today. In addition to the readings, representatives of public information funds were invited to attend the session. Thank you so much for being here with us today. I warmly welcome all present and thank again the MPs and guests who have been present and come, as well as the representatives of the public information funds. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, according to the Secretariat's service report, the meetings are attended by 33 MPs. Meanwhile, here, while the anthem was broadcast, two others came, so we have those present, from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina 24, from Republika Srpska 11, a total of 35. So we have a quorum to work with and we can do it right. Mr Ivo Mijačević is absent for health reasons, other MPs have not announced their absence. We therefore consider it justified only the absence of Mr Mijačević. With the invitation to this session, you have received a draft agenda, it is true that because of the short time you may not have had the special extra time to send your comments and suggestions according to the material you have received. 2 For this session, I propose the agenda you received in your call, and it reads: Agenda 1. Proposal for a Work Programme for the House of Representatives for the period August - December 1999, 2. Final report of the South East European Stability Pact Organising Committee for the Southeastern Europe, held in Sarajevo from 29-30.7th October 3rd. MPs' questions. I would like to point out that the agenda has been agreed at the College session and that this agenda is a unanimous proposal from the College. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Mr. Messenger Bogić Bogičević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1894	Dear Members, I propose that the minutes of the last session of the House of Representatives session be included in the agenda, which shows that some of the obligations of this House of Representatives and of this session arise. Secondly, I propose that the House of Representatives Presidency inform Parliament of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1895	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a debate on the agenda? Here you go, Mr. Messenger Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1896	Mr. President, esteemed MPs, I, in this House, have submitted the proposal for a Red Cross/Cross Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the International Red Cross requires the adoption of such a law so that our organisation may be and continue its continuity in Geneva, it is a very important international organisation, it is also about the need for entities to adopt appropriate regulations. We can't do business until this House delivers this bill, the proposal is delivered, why isn't it included in the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1897	Thank you. Is anyone else answering, please, Ms. Rađević, and after Mr. Ambassador Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1898	Dear fellow Members and MPs, I would suggest, if we were to do so properly, that we postpone this final report of the Summit's 3 Southeastern Europe Stability Committee, held in Sarajevo on July 29th and 30th, for the next session for a simple technical reason, we received 30-page material 20 minutes ago, and this would indeed, by putting it on the agenda, and in that way, whether we simply, think we raise our hand for or against, or even discuss, pure improvisation. I suggest we keep it for the next session. And that, in the future, such practice is omitted, that any material is obtained immediately before the session, especially those that are extensive, by 30 sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1899	Thank you. poslanik Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1900	Dear colleagues, chairman, fellow MPs, I would in any case support Mr. Bogičević's proposal. It is also normal according to the Interim Rules of Procedure which we apply and who we should adhere to and each session shall receive a report, i.e. the minutes from the previous session. I have not received it to this day, so in this context I am asking the chairman, therefore, with the technical service, related, that future failures do not occur and, on the other hand, I was also thinking, I am also proposing the same thing that Mrs. Rađević suggested, again it is a technical failure that unfortunately, the material in the 2nd point of the agenda, here, I am getting this very moment. So how can it be expected that, as an MP, I can take a stand for something that I have neither seen nor read at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1901	Thank you very much. Come on, who's on the phone? Ambassador Dr Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1902	Dear colleagues, respected presidency, as far as the Stability Pact is concerned, this final report cannot be completed until we have a final financial report that cannot, for objective reasons, still be completed. We hurried with this report, when I tell me on the Organizational Committee that we would report to Parliament on what we were doing and these reports of the subcommittees that are before you, other than the Financial Committee, are final. However, the final financial report can only be drawn up once we have signed all the contracts and completed all the work with the European Union. So, our intention was with this report that as soon as we inform Parliament of the work of the subcommittee, the Organization Committee, of the organisation of the Stability Pact and, I agree, it can, of course, be delayed for the next session, if it is Parliament's intention to inform as soon as possible, this is, therefore, a report that was practically made three days ago, 4 but, behold, we wanted to give you around, that Parliament has insight into the work of these subcommittees. When I got out, I, too, handed over a number of laws as an MP and, behold, my question is, why is this not on the agenda and, if so, in which way it is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1903	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Ambassador Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1904	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I don't think it was an accident that was left out of the record and let me, indeed, consider it not only an inconclusive act, but as a deliberate act that today's session could not go to that session and that it would not be possible to discuss those issues that were raised at the last session. You know that we had two initiatives for which we received the required majority, we didn't get a qualified majority, it's about initiatives to clarify and that the information about an affair related to the Prondei bank, it's about the request, in principle, to review the position of those involved in this affair, not to mention names, and instead of the results of the alignment, I don't think that the College can in such a way start this session and, at best, the minutes aren't something that takes a lot of jobs, we should resolve this issue. Next, on 4 March, I asked the question and requested that the current legal provisions in the Constitution separate the functions of MPs and members of the Council of Ministers. This is a question asked to the College and I demand that this situation be clarified. In order not to come again to find out tomorrow that we have had anti-constitutional work and, I don't know, more than a year, instead of answering that question, we have in the series of different interpretations of it, at the last session of representatives, members of the Council of Ministers of the HDZ announced that I don't know what legal form there is, before that we had some resolutions, in the meantime Mr Silajdžić sends a set of laws, as an MP, of which we are prepared to support many, but, let me, in a position where he, de facto, is sending himself laws, indeed because of the height of this high House, this circus should be interrupted. De facto, Mr Silajdžić sends as an MP for the laws he will consider as co-chair of the Council of Ministers, in a function that is anti-constitutional, etc., etc. Too many of us, unnecessary, I don't know why, for whose vanity and principles, one chaotic, illegal, I'd say a little embarrassing. I'd like to ask my colleagues to take a break and secure the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1905	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a discussion on the agenda? Mr. Ambassador Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. 5
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1906	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I would like to make some remarks about our insistence especially in the light of the discussion, which were now, to put the minutes as the first item of the agenda. There are two reasons, so to speak, one legal and one political, or essentially, whatever you want. On the condition that, legally speaking, we have concluded at the last session of Parliament that every session and item of the agenda, not to be discussed, begins with the minutes. So we've already denied at this session at the first point, let's say, my conclusion from last session. The reason is very simple, so we're starting a session today without respecting our conclusion from last time on the, apparently, technical matter. We have received in preparation a bunch of materials that are indeed, and with great effort, certainly, done and people in the Secretariat who do not yet exist, practically, are making, surely, a great deal of work. However, someone told them in what order to work, they should have been told to make the record first, so the legal reason, first, is this particular one, respecting their own decision. Essentially, there are more of them, I'll only list two of the most important, from our point of view. In the last session, it was refused to give any report, any information on the Stability Pact, this Parliament refused to receive information about it, we want to see, firstly, to make a record of it, to see in the record, and to adopt the minutes on which we refused it, and now here we have a farce of the report, which is allegedly agreed on by the College, that this report, which I have no doubt, and here we are now getting two different interpretations. We're not interested in any report that has no financial aspects in it, we're not interested in it at all, as MPs, the report, which was color accreditation, and how the police were doing their job here successfully. We know that, we don't care at all about things that have nothing to do with finance, we're very interested in information from the financial subcommittee and a lot of things about it. In the last session of Parliament, we are told that we have not even formed this Committee, and so what we are now asking ourselves. Now here from the Committee we are offered a report with everything that is irrelevant, what we know from the papers, or we know because we saw or were there. So, please, no report for us is interesting without financial indicators, and that is why we insist on the record. Someone will tell you what we caught on the record, I want to explain why we caught the record, not just for the record. Another fundamental reason that does not concern the Stability Pact report, because when the report comes, we are very glad that this report will come, and apparently the Organisational Committee has fallen into problems either financially or I do not know which, so Parliament needs to be covered now. We heard last time from the BiH Council of Ministers that everything is financially covered and that we are getting involved in all this together, we are now getting a report that was shared five minutes before the session, which shows that not everything is financially covered, that there is a lot of money missing, and what we have to discuss about such a report. We, too, are interested in the record for the second essential reason that we insisted then and we got most of it, but it was not from both entities, I remind you, the Federation of BiH did not need a majority, and we had 6 decisions of Parliament, most of them, to give us information as to why the National Bank lacked money, or why it was missing. According to the Rules of Procedure, you in the College were supposed to agree on this subject, so in Rules of Procedure, Rule 7, point 2b, if you are interested, then you should have informed us that you did not agree, if you did not, and now to reverse the procedure, so let's see if we can get into a new voting tour. So we can't start a session without a record, please, give us a record, take a break, and let's fine-tune it, and let's talk about it, let's talk about two big questions here. Where is the money missing to cover the Stability Pact and the second question -- where are the money that went missing at the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then we will easily go to these other things.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1907	Thank you very much. Here you go, Ambassador Dr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1908	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, My suggestion would be that today, however, we do something. These MPs are right to ask for the minutes and I think this should be the last warning to the chairman of the future sessions, not to invite us unless they were able to agree on the minutes, it's an elemental matter, but I disagree with those who say we can't work without the minutes, we can, if we agree. If the minutes cannot be prepared quickly for today, it is my suggestion that we agree to work on the last time without the minutes and to insist, of course, that this minutes and minutes from today's session, if we keep it, be at the next session, and that today we work on those issues that we can come up with a joint proposal that we can agree on. It seems to me that, in this first item of the agenda, there are some draft laws with defined deadlines that we can reach agreement on, I think we need this for a number of reasons, the first reason we really don't have a work programme, the Assembly has to have a work programme, even if it's in two months. So, in this way we would overcome this problem, the other reason is that one of the conditions of Bosnia and Herzegovina's admission to the Council of Europe is that we also have a work programme. I hope that, truly, you all want us to become permanent members of the Council of Europe, so let's take this one step to meet one of the conditions that we're asked to do. There's no telling how many laws we need to have in the program, but we should have some program. In this second item of the agenda, I would agree with the predecessors and support the proposal to remove it today from the agenda for several reasons. One is that we got the material just now, the other is that, as Lagumdžija's colleague said nicely, we are not interested in what we read from the papers, which was here, but we are interested in the implications of this Pact. The Council of Ministers needs, based on what's been discussed here, what we haven't influenced, to understand ourselves, to tell us what it means for Bosnia and Herzegovina and what it is that we have to do in the next period to make this Pact as big as 7 benefits us. That would be my suggestion. So my proposal is -- if the Bureau says that it is unable to quickly secure the record, that today, for the last time, we are working without record and going to the first point of the agenda -- to consider these draft laws.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1909	Mr. Messenger, replica. Dr. Silajdžić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1910	So, as regards the Stability Pact Report, as I said - we wanted Parliament to inform about our activities. Looks like we made a mistake about this. We should've waited for the financial report to be complete, so let's get on with it. We wanted to be expedient. As for the financial report, I don't think there's any problem. He just needs to be finished. Can one of the successful things -- can we admit that we've successfully done one job? Why do we always have to make a problem out of something? Who said there was nothing missing here? We gave the greatest attention to the financial aspect of maintaining this meeting in Sarajevo being okay. It's certainly okay, but it just needs to end the procedure. We are still with the European Union, I said, with the European Union we are still signing contracts. The European Union has said it will pay for everything it needs and we will finish the job by the end of this month. Have you ever seen the report before that it came to your desks? Looks like we made a mistake here. We can say once -- if the whole world says something is successful -- it's a success. And the financial report will be good and complete and transparent and no one said anything was missing here, but we said it was in the process. I fully agree with the predecessor that the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to talk about applications. So now we're talking about the political aspect of this thing -- so, the Stability Pact. I have made one information shared to inform the BiH presidency and the BiH Parliament about preparations for Bosnia and Herzegovina to join European integration. Let me say a few words. I asked people who are dealing with this problem -- we don't have enough in Bosnia and Herzegovina -- to tell us what awaits us, exactly what the predecessor was saying. You have information in front of you about what needs to be done. We have a very long job ahead of us. She worked on it for 2.5 years. We are fully aware of this in the Council of Ministers of BiH. You have information in front of you, and if you need to talk about this information longer, we will talk - the European White Paper, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1911	Thank you very much. Mr. MP - Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1912	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I will only briefly and, of course, join the thinking of MPs who say it is not logical that the session begins without a record. I don't think that the College should agree on the record, it must be a reflection of the real situation in 8 debates, if it can't, has a stenogram, so a stenogram as a whole, that people are convinced, especially that a number of problems have been opened at the last session of which lately the most developed democratic states of Europe and the world are shaking with misery and anger about what's going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we're acting here as if it's none of our business at all. The bijel House portparol holds a press conference and shakes with misery what's going on, and we say: it's not, you know, a variety of inventions, plantings, insinuations, etc. Since this record, that is, has led a debate on something that should deserve the attention of any MP who stands in the way of fighting for the construction of the rule of law and the fight against crime. If we are not able to, as MPs, bite that cake, then we will have a session, with the session of failed attempts to force each other into something that will go with less or more success. So, I join that part of the MPs asking to take a break until the record is made. Whether it'll take half an hour, an hour, or it'll take two days or a day, please. It's true that we can continue, but every time we say, you know, this time, and this time. I am no longer a supporter of this practice, I demand that this be taken seriously and that a pause be made, that the minutes of the previous session be given, especially as it has been a month since that session, which, of course, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina are expected to talk to us as serious people in the same tone as those who look at us on the side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1913	Thank you very much. Dr. Lagumdžija, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1914	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs - MPs, quite naturally, when one day we reach the agenda on which he will indeed be making the final report of the Organising Committee, will be the reason for the debate. 2/3 hm I want to clarify here the two things that are said and not true. As I said, the material - The final report we received in front of the session and already from the first reading shows that much is missing. So, please, in the table that we got, in the finance subcommittee, as it is said, a colleague of Banjac, it is said, you don't have to push it, I know I'm on the agenda, I'm on the line, if you want me to quote, it's said, "It's all covered, it's not true that some money is missing, etc.", since I said it, I'm obliged, and I'm told that I'm guilty, I'm obliged to correct it. So, fellow Genjac, here on page 17, the Subcommittee on Finance VII says: “The European Union’s funds, which are planned, are roughly two and a half million marks, that less than a million marks have been achieved, which is calculated very precisely here, that it is almost 40% of the money. But it also says here on page 10, or 9 fine: that the materials they gave us are also incomplete, because here most literally, believe it or not, it says that some of the companies have not delivered the invoices at all and these amounts have not entered the final amount of costs at all. So what's covered, so the money's uncovered. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1915	We understood the line. I'm asking dr. A liar to direct your discussion of the wrong quote. The replica lasts up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1916	So, the false assumption is that everything is covered. And the other guilty allegation is that we claimed it was wrong to give the report. 1. It was wrong last time that, to our insistence, it refused to give this report. This was wrong last time, and today it was wrong to give us a report that lacked what was meant to be in the account.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1917	Thank you very much. Lagumji. Dear Members, is it possible for me to give now, given that there has been an enormous amount of objections and I have no intention of replicating anyone, but simply informing the state of the matter in order to work properly at this session. Believe me, without any sarcasm, I am pleased that you have noticed that there is a lack of work, because the only thing that can improve the work, if we are doing so, but I am asking you and I agree that the Kolegijum is responsible for its work, I don't only know that no one has noticed that we have much of what we have agreed and implemented lately, and that we are working very intensively on the conclusions of the last session, but none of you will tell us who will be responsible because the Administrative Commission can't possibly pass an act by which we could organise a service that would be effective for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, or this House. That's what no one's gonna say. It is not up to you, gentlemen, to the Kolegijum, but to the MPs from the parties who make up the Administrative Commission. I don't blame them either, if they have any objections to what it says, but delaying this problem prevents us from filling in the Secretariat that can be in the function of this House. Gentlemen, six people are working. Here I thank the MP who said that a large amount of material was prepared, and this material required the work of these people. Without the intention of protecting them, I have no intention of protecting anyone here, but I ask you to understand objective circumstances, and they say: “Why is the establishment of the Secretariat blocked in the required scope for the work of this House?” That is my question. Secondly, as far as the record is concerned, I've been informed by one part of the Secretariat that the minutes are gone, by the other, that it's over, that we have to deal with them after this session why it happened. I'm informing you of the part about how it is. I'll take a break after this, until your record's on the table, and it won't start and we'll see why it was like that, I don't want anyone to cheat on me here. I want to do what I can best. So, I'm gonna take a break, and I have a business right to do that, until the record is on your desk. And I accept that I would like to respond to Ambassador Bogićević, as regards the Constitutional Court Decision, the Constitutional Court decision, gentlemen, has not been delivered to us, and has not been published, for me it is still a culinary story, until 10 is published or officially delivered. I don't want to work on the principle of saying-- she said, that's the only reason why you don't have that decision here today. Secondly, the remarks made by Members of Bičakčić, why the Red Cross Act is not on the agenda, it is true that it is not on the agenda, you forget, gentlemen, our final conclusion of the session of 27th October. when we have concluded that we will hold a thematic session on the work programme and that it must be within 30 days of the end of the Stability Pact Summit. We have scheduled a thematic session on the work programme, we felt that this report could also come on the agenda, because it is in agreement with what will be defined by the work programme, which is why we accepted that it is going, but simply as information, and not as an act that we should say we accept or do not accept, because I did not get it, so I ask Mr Silajdžić to give me an answer whether I am right, I did not realize that the predstavnički of Representatives should say whether or not accept the report, because it is not in his authority, as far as I am clear. So there's no acceptance or non-acceptance, but there's a report as information, that's what it's said in that direction. I accept your remarks that this is delayed, because MPs have the right to be properly informed, which means that you can read the Peace Report, there is no rush to postpone, and I am informing you, in the proposal for a work programme, under point e) you have the calendar of a permanent session of the Assembly and our conclusion was, from the 27th session, that we are in a permanent session and that, gentlemen, respectfully, therefore, the session can be continued tomorrow, can be held the day after seven days, may be within that period as agreed today. So it is not disputed that you should leave time for the report to be thoroughly studied, so that all that is controversial may be asked. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind, therefore, the answer to Mr. Bičakčić's proposal for a bill will go into the procedure as the Rules of Procedure has been regulated and by this House's decision on the procedure of making and putting the Rules of Procedure's agenda, and you know how that decision goes, that I don't repeat it, and I can repeat it if it is asked of me. We'll put it in the process. Mrs. Rađević asked for a stay of this point. I think I've answered that question. Mr Deretić, the Constitutional Court's decision, I think 2/5 is responsible, too, the paper, the report on the work, was removed from the agenda, we agreed on, and Mr Silajdžić said that there was nothing controversial, that it could be delayed, why the laws are not on the agenda, here, why this is, therefore, an scheduled session only thematic on the work programme, and we considered the report as something that could be completed, something that may not have been taken from the Stability Pact, and it is the obligation of this House to realise, only because of that, nothing else. Mr. Tokić. As far as I'm concerned, right now, about reaching agreement on Mr. Lagumdžija and Tokić's proposal at the last session, we were sitting, standing here, in written form of 28.7, here, but we didn't put on the agenda, because we wanted to first realize what we considered priority. Please, there's no excuse, but is it okay that one parliament doesn't have a program of work that works? I don't think there's anything different about that, and that's why we put it on this session. As for the continuation of the session, he can be tomorrow, nothing is disputed. It's not at all controversial, and let me tell you that we did it, here's the document standing. Now I don't know, if we agreed to have another 11 points of the agenda on this, if we'd accept it, then we'd have broken the conclusion from the previous session that we'd bring the work programme first, and then we'd just move on. But I don't mind it being your proposal and you're entitled to that, as far as the record is concerned, it is, too. Dr. Crescent. The Lagumdžija is about the information about the bank and I'll tell you about it, you know why it's not on the agenda, and what's the position of the Kolegijum, you'll get when that point is on the agenda, we've prepared, like the Kolegijum, the answer to that question for the next session. Look, there's a work programme, we'll tell you where it is. [[STAMMERING]] It just needs to be read, no problem at all, I'm sure it does. I think it's a good observation from Mr. Dokić that this will be the last time without a record, but I ask you, who will answer because we can't form a technical service or a staff to achieve this, just asking how to provide it, will you help the Kolegijum, as MPs, by working in committees so that we can accomplish it? I'm in, I'm just asking you to help us. Because how do we work as the Commission, if the Commission has not adopted a position, which is within its jurisdiction, how do we form a secretariat, how do we receive people, by our own means? As for taking the final report off the agenda, here, we got this information, that's fine. To take a break, says Mr. Špirić, right, it's not a dispute, here I am now going to give [[STAMMERING]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1918	Dear gentlemen, MPs, there have been speeches here about this, namely, Mr Banjac says that the Administrative Commission is unable to choose, or, to make a decision on the formation of joint services, there are truths, but there are many problems there, but the last session that the Administrative Commission of both homes had with the presidents of both homes, too, failed to agree, there have been some adjustments, however, neither the Presidency of both homes nor the Administrative Commission of both homes have arrived to agree on this because some MPs have different opinions on the work of the Assembly, on the formation of the Assembly - some MPs think that this Assembly simply needs to be boycotted that it is not working further, that it is doing as weakly as possible. But I think we should agree on that for the next week, and we're somewhere close to making a deal. This is what I am saying to the MPs to understand that we are not in a position to make any mistake of the Administrative Commission, not at all, but simply all together because of our situation, we are unable to make a decision on the organisation of this service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1919	Thank you very much to Mr. President of the Commission, the replica, just a moment to say one sentence, and that is, on that Commission, the members of the Commission vote, not the members of the College. Thank you very much. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1920	When it comes to the work of the Administrative Commission whose member I am, I just want to ask here in public and say that the members of the Administrative Commission are not invited in any way in that session, some members, here, let's say, to myself, I say. I might as well tell you, I was internally asking why I got an internal answer that they sent on the phone that I had six months ago and I guarantee there is no now. But I don't know that reason, I can't accept it, because I've been getting calls for six months, but I didn't get calls this time. So, there are these kind of leaks, whether it's intentional or not, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1921	Thank you very much. poslanik Dokić, then Deputy Chairman Dr. A genius.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1922	I think the College of the Assembly doesn't have to justify our observations and suggestions, not with the intention of attacking someone, but with the intention to arrange relationships and build them later. I'd go back to the record again, I wouldn't accept the president's proposal if we were waiting forever now, but to get the record. We won't get anything because the record isn't on half the page, so you can get on the table while someone's talking read, I'm not speaking from my position because for me that record doesn't mean anything to me personally, because I haven't been to that session, but I speak in general. A failure was made when we received this material, and I am in favour of agreeing today that when we call for a session we do not receive the minutes, that we do not go to that session, and that will solve that question. And for that I would ask MPs for understanding, that we work without that record today. I think we'll have more quality if we get it in time, study it in peace, and the next time we start with that record, and we continue with the minutes from today's session, than if we wait half a day, it can happen if it's not over, so that we have the record, so that in that nervousness we continue the session, on the other hand, there are MPs who, on the issues of this particular assembly have urgent obligations and can't wait more than two, three hours, they have to go after those obligations, so I can't continue late afternoon or possibly tomorrow. It would be good to discuss that the College here has agreed, no less than 16 drafts of the law, take a third of it to accept, or 2/3 to accept, but, here, to stay at one third, that's about as many laws as the two congregations in half a year, in two convocations, first and second, not counting those laws declared by the High Representative, if they've agreed on these 16, I think most of them will be accepted, which means we have one optimistic, one optimistic proposal to adopt in just four months a dozen laws, or to come to the agenda of a dozen laws, and what my application would be, from here again, that we all get very serious and use less lobby around the office of the High Representative, and I hope that the new High Representative in this will help and that the laws are passed here, because only one law that has its own value, that we don't change here, until we all of course. 13 And once again, I repeat, that no law that came out of the Office of the High Representative shall we accept until it is regularly in the procedure, therefore, that we may consider it in certain parts. I hope that's understood and that it went that way because we had one of those and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1923	Thank you very much. A genius.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1924	Allow me, as a member of the House of Representatives College, to say a few words, simply invited to all what is said during the debate on the agenda. It happens to us that during the debate on the agenda MPs from individual parties, all of their party platforms are being carried out here. I don't mind that, however, there should be some correctness in that. What I'm saying is, it's been said and the words are heavy, it's not agreed to the minutes, it's not agreed to the parliamentary questions, where the missing money is here, where the missing money is there, immorally, embarrassingly, etc. Let me tell you right now, the record of the House of Representatives has never been approved because the record is, you know, how it's made. At least those who have been MPs should know that. Three days after Parliament, the College agreed on business issues, and on the Prondei Bank, and on the question of what to do with the report. I, as a member of the College, immediately tell you, have treated it quite indifferently, because the competent institutions have done the job, not because of the parliamentary issue, but because the competent institutions are doing their job, therefore, a consensus has been made on the parliamentary issue. We, as a College, as the Secretariat of this House in August, worked very seriously to realize the conclusion of this House of Representatives, which was in the sense that within 30 days a programme of work of the House of Representatives will determine the dynamics of the activities that will lead us to the Council of Europe, which will lead to the fulfilment of the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe, and which will implement what is in the final document of the Stability Pact for South East Europe, and in our resolution that we have introduced. We worked very thoroughly, very responsibly, we sent all the parties a proposal for the debate, but it happens very often, as well as here in the debate on the agenda, because of the media impression some things are said, and when the work starts to leave the session, so it happens very often on committees, so it happens in debates and contributions to key issues when they are resolved, so it also happened about the debate on the work programme. So we have made up a thorough work programme and it seems to me that it was necessary to recognize that our first obligation is to bring the programme of work of the House of Representatives for this period that is before us and that is crucial for these processes that I have been talking about. You have received this program of work, please focus all your energy, in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the interest of what you should do here, on this work programme and on bringing this work programme. Just because the record isn't finished, believe it or not, there's absolutely no background and there's absolutely no attempt to trick anyone here, let the record be done when it's done, let the record be at the 14 next session that can be scheduled tomorrow, and I'll support that this session is scheduled tomorrow, and let us focus our energy on what we are here to do today and what we need to do. The second thing, when you look at it a little bit, the work programme of the House of Representatives is a document to whom you really need to pay attention, so in this programme we will work out a lot of questions and solve these issues of technical nature, including the issues of the Secretariat, and the work of committees and, in particular, to address these issues. It's an approach, give it a job to get involved in this business, let's not talk business about talking about everything, when it comes to business let's get involved in business. Thirdly, I support Parliamentarian Deretić's initiative, given that the big words are said about what is going on in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as he said and immediately to tell you that I will advocate as a member of the College that this issue is on the agenda, but let's see through that question where the problems are, what about the border service, what about the laws that these issues need to be contained, and I hope that Mr Deretić will support me, as he has advocated talking about these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1925	Thank you, Mr. Špirić, and after the replica Tokić, then Ambassador Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1926	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, I would really ask you, and we are speaking to the general public, if you could understand what you're talking about, the MPs are after so-called. Permanent work, however, invited, and there was no permanent work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly because if there had been permanent work, at least the report would have been done properly. The MPs received material for the session five minutes before the session. And we can judge only on the basis of these materials, I can be impressed that you're doing extremely well, that you're all what we've asked as questions, that you've agreed on, that you've solved it, but I, indeed, as a fellow representative, as a man, ask you - what you're hiding, what the record means, has agreed on this, where transparency is, which is not to be given to the MPs, so we might avoid this debate, if you do well, and if it's all settled, give it to the MPs, give it at least five minutes as otherwise, all the materials arrive five minutes before. Don't use big words on behalf of Bosnia, this program, Genjac, was to be adopted on behalf of Bosnia, seven days after you've been appointed, if you speak for Bosnia. We will adopt the programme, we have asked at the last session to be this programme, on behalf of Bosnia we should not hide, we should not hide information about what happened with the alignments and the indication of what this assembly did last time thanks to the votes of the CD coalition, and that the recommendation, to suspend people who are under serious criminal charges, had to do so.... What he did, we should've done. We've had a chance to keep our dignity on it, and now you're, instead of doing your job, holding a lecture and qualified here, we're just asking a question and acting based on what we have. We keep repeating we're going to get to chaos, look at this material, here, this material on 23.8th day, when it's typed, 24.8th given to the Parliamentary Assembly, which today, which is the problem, there may be some misunderstandings, there's no misunderstandings, there's no technique, that 15 becomes a political problem, if necessary, call the MPs, we'll come for the materials, but we can't work like this, I don't know what the chaos is. Furthermore, I am really afraid and to make a circus out of it, I no longer know, especially after these culinary stories, and they are not culinary, the Constitutional Court has made this decision, he has made a statement, and I no longer can't get to know Mr Silajdžić's position, I asked 6-7 months ago to clarify this issue, now he's a representative, anti-constitutional co-chair, a legislator of the law that he should consider as co-chair and member of the Council of Ministers, and now that we're already on the move and I hear he's still announcing resignation, all this is now insignificant. Let's get the work serious, and we MPs can work, Banjac, the chairman, just based on what we get. And if we ask what's going on with the alignment, don't tell us, and tell us, here's the paper and get it straight, because it makes sense for you to ask me, it's not an evil intention, and you can't have the paper, you'll get it, it's not for your mind yet, when it's up to you, you'll get it, hello -- what are those times.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1927	Please, Mr. MP, respect the dignity of the person and use in the dictionary, however, the terms which are consistent with the dignity of this House. So, I didn't say, I apologize, there's no need to repeat what I said, you heard it well, and don't forget to repeat it again, the conclusion was that the work programme was a priority. Why won't anyone say it here and why, gentlemen, spend so many words, waste so much power, intellectually, instead of moving on to the work programme and bring in an act so that it'll be easier for us to work and to know exactly what it's going to be, what session and when it's going to be. Which is why we're running away from it, is this really the political stands or is it the Assembly? Are we going to work? I apologize, Mr. Špirić's replica and Mr. Genjac's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1928	Madam Chairman, I would like to avoid the trap, that we are acting here, and you and you, chair and put to the vote the motions of the MPs and don't plead that you can answer everything today because the problem is too complex, and there is no need to blur things out that there is any MP who doesn't want to discuss this House's work programme. Let me know who told you today that he doesn't want to discuss the work programme, does he have any MPs? There are none, but what you haven't done, what someone hasn't done, don't push in front of the MPs, is not, I assure you, the work of committees, or the administrative commission problem that hasn't finished the record, but whether there's something that MPs can or can't know. It's not the cause of crime and crime from us what Mr. Genjac is talking about, so the U.S. shakes from misery and says a billion dollars stolen, instead of having an emergency session, and we say, "Let's protect people if it isn't." We today, what, if mentioned in the record, so we say, don't record, it's not correct, it's not fair, etc. This House can't do that, at least I don't think it can work, I don't think it's up to the record to be and that the record, I guess, is over, there's no need to fight crime, and, now, the threat of some new legal solutions, I don't see any reason why anyone normal is resisting crime, but we're not going to start a problem, even in the record of 16 we don't want to see it. It's no secret that public people said that a billion dollars has been embezzled in the Federation of BiH, it's nothing, it's like that, people lie, they hate us, we always have a tendency to be hated. I'm in favour of either removing or confirming the subject as MPs. Now that we're going, maybe it's a detour from what's going on, but don't say that someone doesn't want to discuss the program, I want to discuss it, but I don't want to skip the record, and I think this Assembly has to clearly spy on someone who doesn't do their job. As far as it's possible we've had a record, there once was no record. It wasn't a regular record? First of all, we are told that part of the legal projects or papers, since the service is not strengthened, is being prepared by the Federal Parliament's service. And I have this information with the commission, and now you don't know who's serving which parliament. So, I'm not a supporter, no matter what persuasion, let's go until we see the record, what will be about the record, please?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1929	Is this a proposal or a replica? If it's a suggestion, let them know that we can make a statement. Gentlemen, before I give my word to Mr. Genjac, just to tell you that we're not going through a lot of trouble, it seems like we're all burning to work, it takes us 30 minutes to take a break, to have records on the table, if you want that kind of access, you might have, maybe even less, but ten minutes ago I got information for a 30-minute break to be on the table. Idati take a break as soon as the replica's finished.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1930	Of course, part of the discussion should be taken as a result of quite the excitement, I thus understand it, the false allegation, nothing hidden, no answer is hidden, personally I thought that the record was over, that it implies that it would be on the agenda, and, please, after the break, to answer why it was and how it was made a mistake that the record was not on the table, and that it was also answered to agree on the College, I understood that it was a priority issue to adopt the work programme and that it was on the agenda, because it was our decision, and that all other issues, not for the reasons of hiding, not for reasons, but for technical reasons, were left for another question. I do not threaten new laws, some new laws in the debate on the subject Mr Špirić mentioned. We laws, like this Parliament, are obliged to bring and debate on this issue will inevitably ask the question of where our responsibility is and who has prevented many of the necessary laws from being passed. Thank you. Thank you. I have promised and a break has been requested from the MPs of the SDP, I pray, before the break, yes, however, I must respect, only if the SDP club agrees? He doesn't agree. Just please, before giving a break, only with their approval can I give a word. I can't accept the discussion, wait, if it's a business intervention. I can't give you my word, and please, the break is 30 minutes. 17 As the time has elapsed, I suggest we continue our work. There's a quorum in the O.R. right now, which means we can keep working, and I hope that the MPs will find time to come here too. Mr. Genjac picked up the phone. I didn't give someone my word, I'm sorry. Okay. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss before the plea? Mr. Lagumdžija, the club can seek a new break and, of course, I will adopt it if it suggests a club. So is he slow to seek? You're right in 10 minutes, please, no dating, 8 minutes, at 1.15 we proceed. I suggest we get back to work. [[Pause]] We have a quorum in the hall, 34 MPs are present, 23 from the Federation of BiH and 11 from Republika Srpska. So, we have a quorum for valid work and I owe you an answer as to why the minutes were delayed, without the intention of provoking anyone at the discussion, I inform you that I was informed by the Secretariat, I had a meeting with them during the break, for technical reasons, since the House of Representatives does not have a technique that meets the conditions that we can do the minutes, and the service that did this for this House at the 8th month was on vacation, that's why it happened. Of course, this must be an obligation for all of us to stop this happening, that the service is qualified to serve the MPs, but I think it's a common task. The college has also agreed on a draft agenda, and we have two agendas for you that we believe, any adoption, we are in favour. The first draft agenda I propose for adoption, I apologize, is there anyone else, before this, willing to discuss? There is. There's a Mr. Tokić. Here you go, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1932	I would ask you to include, within the framework of your parliamentary powers as a College, in accordance with the provisional Rules of Procedure, what is required of the minutes, which is the statement of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the alignment of these two conclusions, which are defined here in the minutes, so that it is, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, right behind the minutes, as well as in the agreement concerning the minutes of the 7th session of the House of Representatives, and it is related to the proposal of the Social Democratic Party to establish a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and illicit drugs and drug trafficking. I think these three conclusions, if I didn't repeat them, are very current, and since the deadlines for definitely declaring the Assembly have been long ago, we would have to do this today, because for us, it's very important, because of the performance, about the programme of work of the House of Representatives that we should adopt today. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1933	Thank you. So, you're proposing to be included, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I think this might be possible, given that the College is agreed to, therefore, if only one short break can I find this material that the gentleman was talking about, there's no need for a break. Please, Tokić, can you help us see a little bit, it's about the 7th session record. I think it'd be best... Mr. Kadić, if you'll excuse me for a moment, I'm sorry, since there's a dispute here about one point. Please, I suggest we get back to work. Here, we have consulted, given that this applies to the 6th session, and there has been a dispute over it, and not to the 7th, the conclusion was that the Constitutional Commission, together with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, established the state of the vote on the draft law on the establishment of a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, and to inform the House of Representatives. The Secretariat and the Commission didn't sit, they didn't make a point about it, I don't have anything to... I didn't get it, here, now with the President of the Commission I found, they didn't put it on the agenda and they didn't finish the job. Please, I suggest we get some information on this at the next session. So, what you have suggested, as proposed by MP Tokić over these two conclusions, this refers to Mr Tokić and Mr Lagumdžija's proposal, we have, as an attitude, and I suggest that it be included in the agenda. So we suggest we get into the agenda. So we propose the next agenda, we have two alternatives, so that today we work to the first point of the agenda to be the Work Programme of the House of Representatives for the August - December period. 1. Work programme of the House of Representatives for August - December, 2. Getting acquainted with the Commission's position on these two proposals by Mr Tokić and Mr Lagumdžija. Of course, we'll make that clear by voting. 3. MPs' questions. And if we put all three minutes on the 7th, 8th and Joint Sessions in the next meeting and we can see what they've received. And the second proposal, which for us as a College is equal, that the first point be the adoption of the minutes of only the 8th session, the second point of Progam, the third point of what Mr Tokić proposed these two conclusions and the fourth point of the parliamentary issues. We have, therefore, two draft agendas. The College considers one and the other acceptable, we just wanted this first proposal, perhaps, to say something to achieve one efficiency in the work, to give the Programme more space, and we think that the notes are not so important that we should all go right now, yours is that it's not urgent, it's important, sorry, it's not urgent, it is, of course, important. We have, therefore, options, whether there are any third proposals because we will have the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1934	We agree that the Programme is the most important topic at today's session, but we do suggest, however, that business procedures are respected, that 19 minutes are adopted, that there is a consensus on the minutes, and then we open a debate on the Programme, because the content of the Programme will depend, in our opinion and on the alignment of these proposals that we had with the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1935	No problem. Let me tell you, both proposals will go to the polls, no problem. You heard the argument, this could only be a reason more for deciding the MPs who will adopt the agenda. Anybody else want to talk? There isn't. I put the first draft agenda on the vote, and the first proposal is: Here, Mr. Genjac. Here you go. In the interest of finally starting work, I suggest, really, that we find some kind of compromise, because basically behind this I don't see any big reasons. I propose, therefore, and that the Rules of Procedure be respected, since the conditions have been met, we have received the minutes and that the procedure be followed and I propose that we adopt the minutes of the 8th session, that we follow the conclusions of the 8th session, that this be the 2nd point, that the 3rd point be the progam and the fourth point be MPial issues, and that we leave the report on the Stability Duck for the reasons that have already been said. You take this as some sort of, I think we have consent from the College and since there are suggestions, as some kind of a summary proposal that contains, in itself, everything that's said and I think it can be satisfied and that we first make a statement about it, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1938	Dear colleagues chairing, it is my deep opinion that on that moment until we are finally serious about the work and that we will not abide by the Interim Rules of Procedure, it will happen to us, unfortunately, from the session to the session of what is happening to us today. So, in short, I suggest, in any case, that is why we have just taken a break, so the first item of the agenda should, in fact, be to consider the minutes from previous sessions, i.e. the previous session, the 8th session of the House of Representatives, the second point should be the Programme and the third parliamentary issues, all of which automatically violates our Interim Programme and the way we work so far. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I suggest the next agenda. Does anyone else have a wish before he speaks? There isn't. 20 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives session of 27. 7.1999, 2. The College's report on the harmonisation of the conclusions of MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Dr. Zlatko of Lagumdžija, 3. Proposal for a programme of work of the House of Representatives for the period August - December 1999, 4. MPs' questions. Before the vote, is there anyone else who wants to say something? There isn't. Please, I'm asking, there's always an opportunity for someone to say something. Please, sekretarijat, here, establish the quorum. 34, thank you very much. Who's for the proposed agenda? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that the agenda has been unanimously adopted because there is no need to vote on entities, since it is unanimous. Please, I understand that the next agenda has been adopted. The adoption of the zapisnka of the 8th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly held on 27.7., 2. Report from the College of the Commission on the harmonisation of the conclusions of MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Dr. Zlatko of Lagumdžija, 3. Proposal for a Work Programme for the House of Representatives for the period August - December 1999, 4. MPs' questions. I'm going to the first item of the agenda. You had a chance to read the record. Does anyone have any objections? Here you go, Ambassador Zovko.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1940	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, I have an objection to the text of the minutes, specifically point Ad. 3. which speaks of the Law on Citizenship of BiH. It is said here that, when voting on entities, all present representatives from the Federation of BiH voted in favour of the law. I was not at that session, and here it turns out that I was, because I am gone, I am not worse in absentia, and since I do not agree with some of the key provisions of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular with Article 4 of this Law, I would like it to be determined that I am against it, against some of the provisions of this Law, because it is as if I am here, if all those present from the Federation of BiH voted, it would be as if I were in favour of that law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1941	Thank you very much. 21 Mr. Messenger, the only thing that is possible is that in the preamble, here, in fact, in this first part of the record, we have nothing else to do with the session, but whether or not you are in favour of it, because it is impossible to correct anything other than the fact of it. I ask you to correct the service, therefore, here where it is said that the sessions are present, or absent, to count the name of the MPs of the Zodka in the Zovka, nothing else. Anyone else have any objections? Here you go. There isn't. No Niko's answering for a discussion. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. I find that the record has been unanimously adopted. We move on to the 2nd item of the agenda Report of the Kolegijum, which worked as the Commission to agree on the conclusions of Parliamentarians Sejfudin Tokić and Zlatko Lagumdžija The kolegij discussed at the 27th session, there was no solution, so we did not come to a coherent position. I suggest it be carried out, going to the vote, therefore, and according to the procedure provided. I am putting the first conclusion on the vote, which is the conclusion of Mr Sejfudin Tokić's MPs: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks the competent institutions to reconsider the position of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Omičević and Vice Governor Backović, in connection with the Promdej Bank affair and in connection with the launched investigation and criminal charges related to the abuse of the positions and responsibilities of these officials. Who's in favor of this conclusion? He's got 19 for it. Who's against it? Niko. We vote on entities. All those who do not vote have abstentions. I mean, whoever hasn't decided against or against, there's no fourth option. That's the problem on the agenda. You have a chance to plead. We will no longer put that on for us are all those who are present with abstention. We're going after the entities. Who is from the Federation of BiH against this conclusion? Niko. Who is from Republika Srpska against this conclusion? Niko. Therefore, the proposal was accepted and the conclusion of Mr Sejfudin Tokić, who voted in the proposed form, did not need to read the conclusion again and waste time. I put to the vote the conclusion of Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija: The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina asks for information on the violations of the accounts of the People's Bank of BiH, i.e. the Central Bank of BiH and the measures for their legal and financial 22 sanctioning defined in Chapter II, point 1. Bosnia and Herzegovina Central Bank's annual report for 1998. Who's in? 23, so he's got most of it, only now he's against entities. From the Federation of BiH, who's against? Niko. From Republika Srpska, who's against it? Niko. I find that the conclusion has received the required majority and has been accepted in the proposed form. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. The programme of work of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period August - December 1999 You are the final version, you got the last version of the tables which is not different from the one that was delivered to you, by supplementing it with the point e) where you are also talking about the calendar of the permanent session. So you know, when commissions work, when the assembly works, and from the program it's visible what points will be in that month on the agenda. For some more detailed information, I just want to say a few sentences. In the opening notes, you could read on the basis of which documents were made a proposal for this work programme and of course it was the most important documents to be adopted in accordance with those documents on the basis of which it was made. Here was the finding of insufficient service activity, I would like to say that the service has worked very hard to prepare this Programme together with the colleges of both homes and that on several occasions we have considered what will be in the final proposal before you. So, in no sentence do I want to draw your attention to this in the direction that this is something that should not be changed, which is not to be upgraded, and that is why we are here, but I believe that the time left for you to deliver 5/2 remarks was short, so that we have received all three remarks from the MPs that we have taken to the extent that this is business as well, but also those MPs who have not had the opportunity to deliver their remarks in writing now have the opportunity to influence the final text of this Programme. Please and stand at your service, here, I see, there are two missing members and I ask you to fill the Secretariat's service at the table that is scheduled, please, yes, the service will monitor your presentation and your remarks and suggestions, but I ask you to go to the table after the discussion is completed to see if this is what you suggested. I ask you to help me with the quality of the work of the Assembly and that we know the order of the proposals so that we can take the same order and plead, therefore, please stick to this agreed way of working that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In the end, I don't think it's necessary to warn that this is the way to work, because it's business-regulated. Here you go, Ambassador Spahić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1942	Mr. Lagumdžija, I respected the last time you asked for a 30-minute break, you heard Mr. Banjac's opening statement, so let me, since I got my word, to speak, and then ask me a question. Now I'd like to say this. We have insisted on the programme since the start of this term of Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina and at least in these 7-8 sessions there is one parliamentary question that I have asked, what about the Programme, what about the Rules of Procedure? I must express my satisfaction that in this second half of the year, before the September session, I hope that the permanent, as proposed, we can finally do on the basis of some work programme every good family does, and this Parliament has such a duty. Since it is largely extorted by the MPs because there are two problems that are being raised here. The first problem is that the programme that we have here today, in the nature of things, should, in relation to the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, be in principle what is the obligation and the tasks of the Parliamentary Assembly and what is the obligation and task of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. That is why I would like to say that in the context of the debate on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly programme, the first position I would like to make is one call to the BiH Council of Ministers, that, following our discussion of this Programme, we will get, if possible during the September session and the Council of Ministers' Programme, to be able to establish an appropriate rhythm for these sessions as proposed. The other thing I'd like to say is about the suggestions we made. It is correct to personalise proposals and suggestions since each of the MPs received proposals for the programme, I wanted to ask that by the end of the year, our responsibility for, under point (a) legislative activity in the course of this year, to consider, implement and comply with already adopted laws in the House of Representatives of BiH and the House of Peoples, i.e. those legal acts declared by the will of Karlos Vestendorp, because they have the same legal power, in order to, in fact, make them more responsible institutions that are obliged to implement these laws. It's one of the functions of the House of Representatives. I can't understand that only one relationship can be established in the face of the implementation of a law, as I see in the proposal for a programme, it's a customs law, a customs service which is very important, but I think it would be good to carry out one assessment of the implementation of the law and that would oblige the competent ministries to pass through all these legal acts and to respect them as valid in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, we have one set of laws in BiH that are in force, from this programme you can't see it. The second thing I wanted to say and what was adopted, as far as I can see under (i) on the last page, is the initiative of forming, i.e. considering the motions of Members' initiatives, i.e. delegates, in the end there is this Law on Copyright. I think it would be important to get statements from the relevant BiH Ministry and Council of Ministers at the next session, however, it is not possible to do so now, which laws will be ready by the end of the year, and which laws have been prepared and which we must and can put in the process. As for the part relating to point (b) of the Organization and the way the House of Representatives works, the following additions I would like to give, first of all, to the 24th of this Programme itself, which we will adopt today for the first time in parliamentary practice after Dayton, how much I have registered. It has been three to four years and we cannot ask the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers for a report on their work without submitting ourselves a report on the implementation of the work programme that we are about to adopt today. So, I ask that it be considered by the end of the year, or at least in January, the realization of this programme that we are going to adopt today, in whatever form we adopt it, which is a consensus, but to see first what we of this programme that we adopt today have realized and, normally, to look for what the Council has done, or what the BiH Presidency has done. By the way, I support that part relating to the control of the legislative part of the implementation of the Programme and the law as a whole, because I consider it to be one of the key functions of this body. Secondly, in the context of our discussion and the act that we adopted called the Resolution on European Integrations and the Stability Pact in Southeast Europe, we have also committed ourselves to the regular consideration and realization of this Resolution. In addition, there is a large and wide range of issues that are not covered by anything, and I would like them to be nominated as Parliament's commitment in the programme, that is to consider the problem and way of improving international, scientific, technical, sports, environmental and other co-operation that Bosnia and Herzegovina achieves, based on the protocol on co-operation with different countries, whether achieved through the foreign ministry, through the Council of Ministers of BiH, or some other institutions, taking into account processes that are under way in these areas in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and co-operation with the world. I don't think it is necessary to explain it in particular, but it is quite clear that the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina should be determined in this sense because it is important to strengthen the reputation and position of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world, rather than destroying anything but affirmation, I would say, the interests of every citizen, of scientific workers, sports workers, etc., athletes, above all, people of art, science, culture, etc. There is a whole set of obligations that we have had the opportunity to consider in the information provided for us, for example. The BiH Council of Ministers and the Foreign Ministry at last joint session. I very much appreciate the proposal in the set of 23 legislative proposals that we have received, as it is a parliamentary debate, simply because it is obvious that there is no procedural possibility that these laws will reach Parliament. The first law among these laws is the Law on respect for human rights and freedoms relating to international conventions which Bosnia and Herzegovina is a signator or is required to implement under the General Peace Agreement. I think that this Parliament cannot adopt any work programme, and that the subject of respect for human rights and freedoms is not fully available once on the agenda, at least once, that I do not say much more often, as regards the last part of the proposal I wish to look back on, that is the proposal relating to the programme of inter-national co-operation between our Parliament and this House, with a bilateral and multilateral plan, if you remember, we had at the last session of the foreign policy activities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, about 46 different proposals on this subject, and we also committed to establishing a final delegation in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE and today we got, in that sense, one proposal, I believe that this Parliament could play a significant role in strengthening our own role in Bosnia and Herzegovina's political life, if, of course, and the reputation of this Parliament and its representatives in the field of 25th and in real interest, in this area. It is clear that these four delegations, as priorities, are from the Council of Europe to the OSCE, and it is also clear that there are a number of other discussions within the General Assembly of the United Nations, UNESCO's session, UNDP, etc. I would suggest that, in that sense, one parliamentary procedure be ensured through our commission and through, of course, these bodies that are being established. And finally, according to how we voted today and very seriously determined ourselves according to our Interim Rules, as a fundamental document for the rules of play in the work of the House of Representatives, so we have lost several useful hours in order to adopt the minutes, in order to adopt the decisions resulting from this minutes and to vote on them in accordance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Article 3, point 1, and Article 4, point 4, as well as our Rules of Procedure, a group of four MPs, later joined by a dozen MPs, on which we will also deliver this document today, but quite enough are four MPs, according to the current Rules of Procedure, require the maintenance of one special session, the conclusion of this House, which would discuss the most economic issues in our country. The explanation has already been made public, but given that this is the procedure in which we want to introduce this initiative, I will read these few arguments of ours and I would like to ask that it be followed by the Rules of Procedure, and that, as we have outlined, in addition to the College, this initiative is now formally considered official in the House of Representatives, and so it has been addressed. I expected all MPs to have it, that we would be able to discuss it more. I received information from the chairman of the College that it is headed towards the BiH Council of Ministers, and I would nevertheless like to draw attention to the content of this initiative. On behalf of Mr Nedžad Branković, Prof. Dr. Mediha Filipović, Rasim Kadić and others signed, but, as it has been formally done so in the procedure, I am now not reading, starting with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Madrid Declaration, the Peace Implementation Council in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which speaks of the economic space of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with all those legal conventions that we have not yet put on the agenda, the resolution of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in European integrations and the Stability Pact in Southeast Europe, and based on the really difficult economic and social situation in our country, the responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we are looking for a parliamentary debate. Thanks for the heads-up. We demand that on these issues, particularly in the context of privatisation, in the interest of the citizens of BiH, the College address the relevant institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and ask for relevant information for a debate on economic and social policy with the proposal, underlining, a package of measures to be proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the relevant ministries, a solution to the problem of economic and social policy. In this regard, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, we consider it important that the responsibility of the BiH institutions and its entities and their relations be considered to make the work of the executive authorities more effective, speed up the process of forming state institutions, examples for external trade 26 chambers, create an appropriate environment for the attraction, and thus the employment and protection of all categories of the population, unemployed pensioners, elderly persons, children and people with disabilities, in line with the state, entity, cantonal, municipal competences, as follows. So, we formally publish this initiative today, and I ask that we determine ourselves about it. I'll use your suggestions to check the authenticity of this record in your secretariat later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1943	Please, do it now, to see it go. Thank you very much. So there won't be a problem later, agree everything. Mr. Lagumdžija wanted to say something and get ready for Mr. Silajdžić, then Divković, then Bičakčić. Here you go, Ambassador Dr. [[Golden Lagumdzija pies from the scene, didn't come out for a pay phone]] Silajdžić. Please, just for a moment, Ambassador Lagumdžija, I will take care of the weather, let me tell him - I thought it was quite enough for the MPs to have received in the opening notes, quite clearly written and the proposals of certain legal solutions and explanations, why they were put in, and I didn't want to take the time to read what was written. I think the MPs read it very carefully and carefully. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1944	In the opening notes here, when it comes to the Work Programme, we have - the realization of the Madrid Conference and documents from Madrid. These are the conclusions we've all accepted in Madrid. The priority in Madrid is also given to reforming the judicial system, which is why I think it should give priority to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Law on BiH's Administration, the Criminal Law of BiH, and, of course, what the predecessor was saying, the Law on the Protection of Human Rights established by international conventions. I don't see these laws as a priority, although the Madrid Conference points us to it. The next remark, we harmonize our laws, at least so should be, with European Union standards, we must take care of it, I am not talking about the Labour Law, which is very important, I think we should open a discussion, the Labour Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, prepared a draft, too, if Parliament decides to start discussing it immediately. I note that these laws that I have mentioned must have priority, this is the conclusion of the Madrid Conference, and reform of the judicial system and these laws will allow us to invest in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without it there will be no serious investment because capital feels insecure. If we link it to the BiH Border Service, I hope that in the programme, too, in the priorities, as far as I can see, it would create a favourable framework for investments that we need in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1945	Thank you, Ambassador Divković. Thank you very much for using the time Bičakčić. Please bring your proposals into line with these other members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1946	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am this plan, this original version that I received before the session, I have made a little suggestion, I have proposed and technically and per month, so I noticed, let's say, that in September, i.e. Next month, we should have about two legislative projects on the agenda -- one information, one decision, etc., in October the same two legislative projects, and in November about 11 legislative projects, etc. So, what I'm saying is that this term plan is pretty unrealistic to me. I think there should be a burden when it comes to laws and making them more evenly distributed. I think we could take another look at this thing at the College. Another thing I'd like to point out -- I was offered what Mr. Vestendorp did at the end of his term. In fact, Mr. Vestendorp, at the end of his term, you know, has declared a series of legislative projects, some of which we have considered and have been here at this House and the House of Peoples and some, I don't think they were, so I would ask and ask if this Programme is in line with any priority plan in the OHR and whether the OHR was consulted when this plan was proposed. If not, I would ask that this Plan and the Programme agree with the priority plan in OHR, because, otherwise, we can get back into the situation of declaring some, eventually, legislative projects that will all be a surprise for us, and then in this situation, this House and we all get a little bit alone, as representatives, too high. Such comments, I must admit, are among the citizens. Therefore, in order to avoid this situation which is very unpleasant for us, and I am deeply convinced that the OHR does not want it either, I think that this Plan and the Programme should agree with OHR. I am not going to make any remarks to Mr Vestendorp or the OHR gentleman that goes into the realisation of certain projects, I even welcome the adoption by OHR of these laws, because they are necessary, necessary, etc. But the methodology and the way I think we should be consistent. The third thing, here in the Work Programme where the proposal for an initiative of MPs is spoken, I must remind you from the College, that Mr. Tokić and I submitted, just over two months ago, a proposal for a holiday law. This Law did not find a place here, although perfectly legal and legitimately entered the procedure and I ask that a place be found and that this Law, even with all other laws, enters the procedure. That's it. Thank you very much. President, let me just tell you. We delivered the proposal for a work programme to both OHR and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency and asked for objections within that deadline that we left behind. Therefore, it was possible to make 28 observations and no one had delivered them so far. It's another topic, I'm talking about this program that's gone a long time ago. [[STAMMERING]] The word has been given by the Messenger Bičakćić, and let the Messenger Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1947	Mr. President, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the efforts of the House of Representatives and the Commission to offer today this House a programme of work of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This House, in the best way, has shown it is ready to approach meeting the basic conditions set by the Council of Europe, when Bosnia and Herzegovina requests full membership. I will inform the political committee of this achievement. I think it is one of the important indicators that we are asked to have the state parliament - that both homes of the state Parliament start to function normally. With this program they'll be able to, I'm deeply convinced. In accordance with the intensities contained in this Programme, I'd like to advocate two more supplements. It is true that the Madrid Declaration produced a complete programme of work and of state and entity bodies and that we should not have discussion and dilemma about it, it is our obligation, and surely at the end of the year some declaration will again underline the line to say what is fulfilled, and what is not, and we, as responsible people, will be responsible for what we have done well, for what we have not done at all. In line with the supplements I would like to propose, this is about the Law on Sports, on the basis of a joint statement by the members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Declaration of Lozana, which is looking for a way to really settle this issue at the state level and that our alliances get an open way to European purchases, championships, competitions, to strengthen our teams and to perform in all European and world competitions. If the problem is the text of this Law and if the competent authority in the BiH Council cannot offer this, we MPs can prepare a bill, it is not any great wisdom and it would also be argued that the Red Cross and Cross Act is found in the Work Programme of this House. I have proposed a bill, as an MP. The International Federation of the Red Cross, Mr. Štoker, has repeatedly assured me that there is agreement between both entities and the obligation of this international association to regulate this activity at a social level. The Red Cross also has its own assets that are hopelessly collapsing and which can be immediately put into a function that they have secured, but simply out of absence, conditionally speaking, consent, and I have assurances that consent exists. We do not have the opportunity to approach the realization of this vital activity from a humanitarian aspect. How much, however, this House does not feel that it is necessary to support the Red Cross Act, I will offer, if it is rejected, then the Red Crescent Act, because one of these institutions must exist within such a state. So I'd like to ask for these two supplements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1948	The poslanik of Lagumdžija, and Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1949	Dear colleagues, the respected Presidency, 29 I must say at the very beginning - I think this is a great progress in relation to what we had on the previous Parliament's assembly and that there is great progress compared to the first year of this Parliament's work. And that's something you should say hello anyway. Unfortunately, the conditions set by international factors, above all those concerning admission to the Council of Europe, and especially our ambitions that have been spoken of more frequently lately -- our 6/3 accession to the European Union requires much greater standards than we are now meeting. Also, the Stability Pact behind us opens up a chance only for those countries that behave according to the highest standards and standards of efficient organisations to profit in the Stability Pact. That's why I think we can't be satisfied with just one of these, let's say, progress, but we should welcome him anyway. I would also like to ask my colleague Banjac, given that this is the first debate on the Work Programme, I would like it to be the last one, to adopt it, not to restrict me in time, or to tell me when I have finished my presentation, and then I would like to report in the second round of proposals, because I have very specific suggestions. I don't think the Work Programme, with concrete proposals, should be limited if it comes to concrete proposals. First of all, methodologically. I think it's very good and that we should welcome Parliament's attempt to give some, to put it that way, the timetable and this setting out the time for holding the sessions I think is welcome. However, in addition, I would suggest that in our way of working we seek for all these laws, and even for some information that, after we have received the information, we may have some concrete conclusions that all these laws, preferably, are subject to regular procedures, which means that in Parliament, in principle, before the adoption of the law, so to speak, we have the law in the form of a draft, and then in the form of a proposal, and then we will discuss everything more peacefully, and then the Council of Ministers of BiH, with the dilemmas that come before the Council of Ministers of BiH, will come here in the form of alternatives with some possible, we can conduct a political and professional debate. If you accept that - therefore, my first methodological proposal, to strive in one of the conclusions to say that the laws that we have ahead of us come in the form of a draft and then in the form of a proposal after the first debate and that these deadlines that we give here apply to the laws in the form of a proposal. In other words, if it says here, I didn't hear. [[STAMMERING]] No, no, that these deadlines, if they're said for a deadline, a bill proposal, should be November, that means we'll probably get it in the form of a draft in October. So, that the deadlines we adopt, that they mean the proposal, which means the adoption of the law, if there is a need for it. So, as a method of working, I suggest. Also, when it comes to -- I think the proposals made here are very precise in the preamble here that this proposal contains the most significant tasks with the deadlines and the holders of all conditions for admission to the Council of Europe, etc. I think that we should define ourselves, then we can work out that all the tasks are in our programme, not the most significant, which are related to the deadlines resulting from the Madrid Conference and the accession to the Council of Europe. So, if it was a commitment, everything we were forced into these documents to be admitted to find it in the Work Programme. Besides, I'm sure there's something that 30 people will impose on us alone. Also, I don't think the dynamics that we're given here, I'm speaking methodologically, are exactly in line with what's ahead of us. Maybe it's in line with our real possibilities, it's not in line with what we should try to do. So you can see -- thirty of these commitments here, about eight of them should just be over in the next two months, and 22 of us left for November and December, and we're still claiming that this is just the most significant part. I will, in that light, recommend some deadlines specifically to be revised. I am now going on concrete proposals that should be innovated and found in the very text of the Programme. First, I think that the Programme should find all those conclusions of Parliament that we have greater behind us. Let me remind you, some of them are missing. I suggest that these two information be entered into the Work Programme and that their deadline be September -- which we have now adopted. I won't tell you again what information this is. Also, I suggest that the Law on Joint Political Forces - combating terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking, which we have found to be controversial, whether it was enough or not, that the Law should be found in the Work Programme and that we avoid anything that will wait for us afterwards. It is also the third element, in September, to be found in the Programme, according to my proposal, that is to say, according to the SDP MEPs' Club's proposal, which I am bringing here, since the president of the SDP MPs' Club, Mr Bogičević, went to a funeral, so I present the proposal instead. I would also suggest that the Work Programme set up a parliamentary commission to discuss the report of the Supreme Institutions for the control function that we are forming on this Law, which is here in progress, because it is an obligation from the Madrid Conference. So, that Parliament has this commission, for these audit reports that we have our own commission. So, to be an integral part of the Work Programme. Also, I propose for the November month that the Council of Ministers, as a carrier of activity, prepare the information, and when I say the information - any information may have some programme, some operational programme and a proposal for measures, to prepare us with information on the implementation of the roof privatisation law that we adopted as Parliament. I don't think there's any need to explain it in particular. Then, too, I suggest that, in line with what the documents say, that we should keep an eye on it, that for the month of November at the latest, although I think October is, however, more realistic, that we have information about the implementation of the current programme with the programme of measures. I think the Foreign Ministry has given us an extremely high-quality material that talks about it. I want to say here that, like Bosnia and Herzegovina, both entities and individual institutions, so to speak - intellectual, educational, scientific, etc. - do not, unfortunately, have enough support through programmes, which is something that is literally offered on our plate. I think it would be good to find it in this work programme. I would also ask that it is found here that we, in accordance with the zapisnik we just received at the break, remind you, too, that there are conclusions of this House within 30 days, that three materials should be prepared. One material refers to admission to the Council of Europe, the other Madrid Declaration and the third to what competent institutions need to do so that we, as best as possible, can be picked up from what is called the Stability Pact. In other words, I remind you, if necessary, I will also read to you - it says in the minutes literally that there is a need to prepare the implementation programmes with the responsibilities of the Council of Europe, the implementation of the Madrid Declaration and the 31st Stability Pact. The participants of these activities are the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers and a parliamentary delegation in Strasbourg, which, as far as I know, is being led by Mr. Bičakčić. Also, I think it should find a place in the Work Programme. I also believe in the Work Programme that it should find its place, although much is covered here when it comes to institutions that ensure the full functioning of human rights institutions and established legislation with the European Convention and human rights and freedoms, I think we lack a single set of issues that are important in all the documents that we have received from the Foreign Ministry, which is state funding and support for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitutional Court. I think that, either the relevant information or the relevant information, to put it that way, perhaps -- I will ultimately propose one piece of information to the Council of Ministers of BiH. Otherwise, this may be an opportunity to immediately make sure that, therefore, I leave for the end, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, before preparing for the Budget for next year, that the Information on the implementation of Budget in this year, so, if any rebalancing or I don't know what, because there are a lot of obligations that we are taking on here - about the Commission for Human Rights - is about the Constitutional Court, etc. We know that in Budget we did not provide enough resources for such a thing, so that information on the realisation of the Budget may be prepared for November of the month or October. Before the adoption of the new Budget, so that we can see how we can really support these institutions financially. Also, I remind you that we have received an extremely high-quality material since 19.02. O.G., from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has given us a lot of material in which we see reports from various groups of the Council of Europe for Democratic Stability, and then, under emergency measures, it was meant to pass the Law on the establishment of public judicial institutions for staff training. I think that law, which was urgent in February or in the second month of O.G. that it should now be put, preferably, for October of the month, so that he may be before us. Also, the same Council of Europe Report states that it is necessary to adopt and implement audited, repeat revised property laws and implement Commission decisions on property requirements for refugees and displaced persons. I think that information about this should also be found in front of us, because these people who come from the European Union are watching everything we do, and it's for our own sake. Also, in that report, it's from the 2nd month of O.G. that appropriate reform should be carried out legislatively at both national and entity level in the media domain, and I think that the relevant information, i.e. legislation in that area, must be found in the Work Programme. I also draw attention to the fact that all of the European Commission's views on democratic stability, these include emergency measures, also found their place in the US government's views on Bosnia and Herzegovina's accession to the Council of Europe, which we received from the competent ministry. In that light, I would also ask for a little more of your patience, because here I am bringing this end, unfortunately, there are a lot of things that [[STAMMERING]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1950	: I accepted an extension because of what you're saying on behalf of the club, so that the others from the club won't get a word. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1951	Yeah, I'm saying, I can stop, I have more of these lists, there's no problem. (Polemika) I'm not talking on behalf of the club to talk, to bring up a political platform, I should be interrupted immediately, if I've exhausted time, but I'm making concrete suggestions on what needs to be done in the Programme. In the same light, the programme of activities stemming from the Secretariat of the Directorate for Political Affairs of the Council of Europe, titled “DISED War”, with measures and two groups of measures, should also be monitored. I don't think everything's covered by our program. One is emergency measures, which were to be implemented immediately, and the other are measures that were to be implemented by the end of June, this one behind us. In fact, these are March 1999 measures. There's a measure here, and I don't think I'd be getting into it right now, but it's a particularly interesting question of appropriate interventions in the Constitution, and I think that material should be prepared by the proper service, to see what's missing, if it's found that nothing is missing, we don't mind. We also received an application from Bosnia and Herzegovina for membership in the Council of Europe, an application that, as it stands here in the fifth month, after staying in Strasbourg, Mr. Bičakčić and Mr. Prlić reported us there that with this application and here it is said that it has been agreed and I think we have a lot of obligations in that app that are standing here, which should find our place in the Work Programme. I'll give you an example. The full functioning of the joint institutions includes the active work of parliamentary committees and regular sessions of parliament and the adoption of the Annual Work Plan. This is the first point given in this application, and it implies that we do it that way. Here, too, is the appropriate funding of the institutions I spoke about and would not repeat. However, it says here that the Bosnian authorities should be asked to draw up an action plan for the implementation of these conditions, so I suggest, as far as this application is concerned, that information on how to implement these conditions is also found in our programme, on our behalf, with great satisfaction, colleagues Prlić and Bičakčić. I am saying this because I have to admit here, now I do not understand here, I do not know whose statement this is, but from the first month of January 1999, on our behalf, on behalf of the Council of Europe, I have been informed that, in collaboration with other relevant institutions in our country, we are already working on a concrete action plan aimed at meeting the conditions resulting from the report and we hope that in the course of the next visit of Bosnia and Herzegovina in February of this year, I will be able to conclude that we have met some of the conditions set out in that plan that we have made. And since that was said in Strasbourg in January that we had made that plan, I think it would be good to have that plan ahead of us, to see if we should, possibly, update it, assuming it exists. Also, when it comes to deadlines, I am obliged to suggest that the deadlines given in Madrid, some of them should change in our programme, so for example: the state vault that is proposed to be adopted by September of the month, we should adopt it by June of the month, only to realize that we are already obviously late. Then, in order to adopt, by March, a pardon, to ensure the proper application of the Foreign Trade, Foreign Investment and Customs Act, we should include the establishment of mechanisms for the oversight of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Customs Policy Act. Since 33 of us were supposed to do it in March, and in the Work Programme it says that it should be on the agenda in November, I would ask that the deadline be reduced. Also, I suggest that the deadline applicable from the Madrid document, which we put to ourselves for November of the month, which is the State Transport Act that was to be completed by 31. 3., the State Electricity Act, which was due to be completed on 30 June and the State Law on Postal Service, which was due to be completed on 30 June, is standing here in November, to cut that deadline, I propose neither September nor October, but I appeal to the Council of Ministers of BiH to try to find a solution. The Madrid document also says that by June 30th, the relevant BiH authorities should conclude bilateral agreements on dual citizenship with neighbouring countries (primarily), meaning there are some other countries besides neighbouring countries. We have no such thing except that the Work Programme here says that we will exchange delegations with neighbouring countries, with Yugoslavia and Croatia, which I suppose should also be the subject of serious consideration. And here, too, the Madrid document says, I think we should get, if nothing, then by October, we should get information on what stage the Conclusions on bilateral agreements, on dual citizenship with neighbouring countries and possibly signatures and others, and what problems and delays are in that Parliament is officially informed that it would not be learned from the papers. It also says that by October 1st, the work of the Border Service in the initial composition should begin and our deadline is given here in November, and to pass the law, and on October 1st, the Border Service is starting to work, and I suggest that we reduce that deadline from November, more so than the High Representative seems to be doing it quite intensively for a long time with the Council of Ministers of BiH. And as for the date that I said here that I would speak of them more specifically, I would only ask that the Customs Service Act, which was due in November 1999, be transferred, his material about him at least two months earlier with the information that was being discussed. Then, to make sure that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act is transferred to September, because otherwise we can come to a constitutional crisis that no one needs. Then I would ask that the first legislative activity, the Electoral Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina, stands here as a proposal from the High Representative, in line with the conclusions of Luxembourg and Madrid, I propose that this be thrown out and that our proposal concerns us and whoever is to be, and that is the Council of Ministers of BiH, and that ultimately the High Representative of this Electoral Law will sign, possibly, something quite different, but I think it is inconclusive that we have here in our work programme, that we already accept that the High Representative is the Proposer of this Law. So, to propose the law, I repeat, be the Council of Ministers of BiH, if the Council of Ministers has some blockades about it, to put it in October, if no problems are done by any reasonable period, we will propose by the Rules of Procedure which we can already put into elections, but that Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law be the obligation of this Parliament, not a stranger. I repeat, no matter what they end up signing it for us. Then, when it comes to the deadlines, I would also ask that parliamentary co-operation and other activities under the indent “saradnja with the International 34 tribunal in The Hague” be left with it, no problem, but to be included in the Work Programme of the Law on Co-operation with the Hague Court and thus we will avoid much as an unnecessary debate on this Parliament, if we once put an end to such a thing. So, the law of co-operation with the court in The Hague, I suggest that the deadline for this be October, and if it is not then, we are ready to give our proposal of the law. Then, I would ask that, when it comes to the realization of international loans used on the basis of the since of the Danube Conference, that the deadline given to us in November 1999, that in this obligation, I suppose, I could not find it here, that the whole package of relations with the International Monetary Fund should be the subject of this Parliament's consideration. I suggest that it be special, to say the words, and that the Council of Ministers of BiH prepares it for October of the month, possibly, therefore, the whole package of relations, the more the Council of Ministers of BiH has very intense meetings with the people of the International Monetary Fund and the various stand by arazmans are, by different information, problematic or problematic, I would not want to talk about it now in advance, but it would be good if Parliament had, therefore, information with a plan of activity if necessary, related to co-operation with the International Monetary Fund and, in doing so, I would like something that is professional, here stands as parliamentary co-operation and other activities, standing one indent and saying: “Opening the website that would present the structure and way of working of the Parliamentary Assembly”, I would ask for this to be thrown out. This is not a program to create an Internet site. That, I apologize, but making the website is, however, something that is not the subject of Parliament's work, and so I suggest that this text that says that the public work of the House, the working committees of Parliament in general, should be held regular press conferences and that there continue to be various forms of presentation of the structure and mode of work, etc., therefore, to skip a complete indent on the website, because, you know, it is the subject of seminar works of students of a large number of people here and it is not a matter of Parliament, and to welcome that Parliament has an Internet page, namely, I thought that it already has.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1952	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Mr. MP to see if it's all recorded there, no, no, I think you'll agree to the text. Now let's go like this. The poslanik of Neimarlija, intervention, can Charsimanović an MP, it is an incorrect quote or replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1953	I would read from this Interim Rules of Procedure point 5, which states that during the debate, the chairman gives the floor to the members in the order they asked for, but a member who drew attention to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is directly concerned, has a championship, if a member asks for a word to correct the statement which was incorrectly stated and who has given cause for misunderstanding or caused an explanation, giving him the right of the Championship to resolve the misunderstanding. My question is this methodological. As MPs, we received a draft of the work programme, we had the right to make a statement by 29th on the draft which could later go into the proposal, I suppose that the MP Lagumdžija, when 35 asked why there was no opening explanation or so, that he submitted his suggestions that the College had not adopted or not considered it and that he had asked for that explanation. If so, then I think that you should make a statement, if not, I believe that such proposals go beyond the ability of us MPs to memorize such long discussions and to discuss it correctly and in quality. And that is why I ask, first of all, of you as chairman, whether the Lagumdžija in writing submitted a request, or a proposal for a draft and how the College referred to these proposals and, if so, this second part of which I spoke.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1954	Thank you very much. Let me tell you, Ambassador Lagumdžija didn't deliver anything, so I apologize, I answer, I'm being referred. I'll tell you what this is, it's the technical part, it's the mail can answer. So he didn't send us any proposal from Ambassador Lagumdžija, I don't know why, and it wasn't sent to me if it wasn't for me. And what about him? He's looking for the one he sent. So it wasn't sent to me, and please, therefore, the Kolegijum couldn't even state what he couldn't see. I consider your objection established, and I think that we will give the MP Lagumdžija the opportunity to say what he thinks, but I think, gentlemen MPs, if such a large number of objections continue to arrive, we will probably interrupt the session to give the Kolegijum and the sekretarijat a chance to sum up all this, I don't know in how many days, we'll deal with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, because we won't do it without them, but you keep doing it, because it's not bad to give good comments, and we'll see what it is possible to install, in the end you'll decide. But I guarantee that's not possible if it continues with a large number of objections here, we won't be able to conclude today, that's for sure. CHARŠIMAMOVIĆ: Now that you've given me the right, can I make a suggestion? Since we've been sitting here for, like, three hours and more, four hours and with the proposals, I think there's good suggestions there, I was able to track it at first, and when it came to methodology, I totally agree. However, it will be very difficult for us to give such answers. I suggest, since our proposal for a program is very ambitious, I don't think we can, if we are all of these proposals, which 15 minutes have been presented that, assuming, all of us are good, we won't be able to realize by the end of the year. My proposal is to put this right away as a plan for 2000, and that what we are really able to realize, because the discussion is going to get us very far. Thank you very much, Ambassador Čašimanović. Replica, Ambassador Lagumdžija. The question was asked to me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1956	To try to act constructively, an invitation for a session of the Parliamentary Assembly with the material on which the Work Programme writes, the SDP MPs received on Friday, arrived on Friday, please. We are, in front of the session, on the table we were given the Programme of Work with Covers, 36 I think, conditionally speaking, with cover, with the cover and, thanks to the great pause, I realized that it was different from what we got on Friday, that there was a lot of innovation, I thought it was perfectly normal for today's session of Parliament to have a debate on this work programme, too, we did not question anything here, I repeat none of what it says we brought here to stop something, so it's quite logical that what I'm prejudged by things, I thought there would be more suggestions and remarks, that this Programme, here, in the methodology of the work that I was saying, that in this Programme today's debate is being accepted as a draft, that what is not controversial, that these normal people are working on which have a commitment, and that we will be able to follow up with the future work, and we will be able to implement the work on the next part. What would be normal in this situation, because of the deadlines ahead of us, is for the next session to be an extraordinary session, in seven days or in five days or I don't know for how long and by then at that next session, based on discussions that we will certainly still have here, to adopt a work programme in the final form, it is quite one logical proposal. When asked why I didn't deliver all this in writing, so obviously from this, you see that we didn't have time to deliver it and the right to tell you that from this presentation, there was a more serious team of people who, in this short time, tried to do a parallel analysis of what was in the different documents, we were, indeed, in this short time, able to prepare what I was now saying on behalf of the club, and it wasn't just my point of view, but the result of a large number of people from the SDP and not just the SDP, who are helping us in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1957	Thank you very much. poslanik Neimarlija and Ambassador Branković. He's giving up, MP Branković. I'm sorry, this is the two of us, Branko, I'm really sorry. Please, the next is Dokić, then Prlić, then Deretić, then Špirić, then Rađević, and Jahić. Please come in, here, I've just read it. I'm asking for an intervention, Mr. Lagumdžija. You got a messenger on the 26th, here's a delivery book, with a request to deliver, well, you see the calendar, Thursday, nothing, but I'm just saying that we're correcting the incorrect quote, we're correcting the wrong quote. Look, we're in a position to tell you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1958	In the area of legislative activities of this proposal of Parliament's Work Programme, progress has been seen in any case by the number of laws to be passed, in any case, covering the creation and formation of all those essential institutions and institutions that need to function in the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina as designed by the Dayton Constitution, but perhaps because I do things where I need to produce, earn and collect, share salaries, I will speak a little more from the aspect of the budgetary, because all of these 37 institutions need to finance themselves from the budget, or budgets that will be provided by budgetary taxpayers, therefore, businesses. I think it is finally time, and on the basis of the initiative mentioned by Mr Spahić, that in the area of legislative activity it is also working on laws that treat all those laws, legal projects that will enable the Bosnian Herzegovina industry to export, because only such an industry can ensure the functioning of these institutions and can provide a normal life for citizens in this country. We know what our basic barriers are, that our products are freely placed in the internal market of the European Union, and that will certainly be one of the essential preconditions of harmonisation in the future functioning of the Stability Pact tomorrow. I therefore propose, and two important measures are for the functioning of the Bosnian economy, these are in any case financial services that can be solved in other ways, but what cannot go beyond this level of legislative authority, in any case, laws on which to systemise and provide systems of credit, certification, testing, standardisation of industrial measurement of compliance with the laws and guidelines of the European Union directives. So these are very important assumptions, we need attributes, so that we can place our products and services within the European Community countries and on third markets. I think these laws should be given priority, because I repeat, these budgetary institutions will not be able to finance themselves unless we take care of the creation of quality budget bonds. This is one of the measures, and I'm giving it the form of an initiative. Also, one of the important measures, and it is again related to the area of economy and life, and one is, I found it in this material that is not on the agenda today, what all Bosnia and Herzegovina needs to do as preparations for the European Community, for European integration, because it certainly sets out to create and develop legal projects in the fields of politics and science and control of state, scientific and technological potentials. Which is why I'm saying this. Namely, our economy, in any case, will not be able to compete on the ino market unless we create conditions for its innovative ability to be competitive. Another piece of information led me to mention this. A few days ago I heard a number that I'm afraid to mention, how many young people are most vital between the ages of 25 and 35 have left this country, the reason we certainly haven't even arranged this area, because young people who are schooling with us don't see motives and see no chance that what they get through their higher education will be able to apply here, so I think that a very high priority should be given to these legal projects as well. There is also a group of Fs from the Work Programme of the House of Representatives, a review of the proposals, an initiative of MPs. I, from this group, would also like to support that the following legislative proposals be included as soon as possible, i.e. by New Year's Eve. First of all, the Law on interstate and inter-entity communications. This is a very important law, because it will solve a lot of dilemmas and problems with the implementation of Annex 9 of the Dayton Constitution, related to public corporations. This law will be able to resolve one of the basic problems of state-owned infrastructure in public corporations, so that after this we would not be left with just one formed corporation. So far, we have only one formed corporation, but this would pave the way for the formation of the remaining mandatory public corporations that we need to form by 38 aneks 9. Because of the fact that I made the initiative in writing, I would not further explain it, but I would like to add this initiative to the service. Thank you. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1960	I'll only talk about this part of the floor (a) relating to legislative activity, but before that I have to say that you really are confusing us and my colleague Lagumdžija is absolutely right, here, I have in one hand a document that I received by fax on Thursday, so at the end of the week, when I could be as I was away on Friday, this I only got yesterday, essentially, and we have acts that we now get here that differ. Both in one and the second in the signature are co-chairs, i.e. the chairman of two homes, the first act ends, I stress, in the first act of 26 August 1995, it is this shortened, and the second act stands in August 1999, according to that logic, this is more important than this, and we are now considering this second one in the agenda. I'm against it, let me tell you right now, and I'll explain why I'm against it, not just for formal reasons, which in time reaches these documents, but for essential reasons. Before I explain it, I have a replica to make. I mean, it really doesn't need to be behind this pay phone to hand over to the Office of the High Representative and the High Representative, maybe someone's learned a good thing about that folk saying that the pet lamb is two tits, but my colleague Lagumdžija just a moment ago, whether spontaneously or intentionally said, the High Representative will prescribe a law for us, I would remind you that prescriptions are prescribed for those who are sick, so we accept here that we are sick, I can't accept any suggestion that we first need to consult the Office of the High Representative, and then we present our proposals. Gentlemen, try it, even if we play our people here our independence, if it doesn't exist, let's play it. The Office of the High Representative, I'm convinced he wants us to do our job and she wants to help us, and we just want the Office of the High Representative to do what we want here, or what we need to do here. I would like to remind you of the report by one of the rapporteurs in the Council of Europe, at the assembly that was in April, which, among other things, said the following sentence “Bosnia and Herzegovina at the moment does not have the conditions to be admitted to a permanent membership of the Council of Europe because it is too much of the influence of the Office of the High Representative which gives the impression that it is a country that is under the protectorate, which means an independent country, a country that is not sovereign, and a country that is not sovereign cannot be a permanent member of the Council of Europe”, these are not my words, I have tried to quote the rapporteur on this issue. Let's figure out the Office of the High Representative here to help us, not get her to prescribe it. And the replica of fellow Lagumdžija, about the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe, has many things and many acts that adapt to these conditions, but are done at the level of both entities. 39 In the Council of Europe, they know very well what entity competences are, and what Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state, I think we should learn this lesson here. And now to go back to my proposal, about what we need to adopt today. The Presidency seems to have been very good at devoting what the priorities are at this point, and has respected exactly what we are required now from the Council of Europe for Perseverance Membership. In this context, 16 laws are proposed to be passed by the end of this year. Last night and this morning, within two Serbian parliamentary clubs, we discussed and we have new initiatives, but I don't know why they didn't come in here. I suggest we not even consider them, because if we take all this into account and take some new contributions that are for 13 more than we got in the first agenda, or five days ago, then we're going to be in a position to act like little kids who have a pocket full of nuts and pull out their hand and want to pull everything out and get nothing out, they can just rip their pockets. It's too ambitious, too many 16 laws to be passed, but let's be serious, let's try to do it. Or let's see which of these laws we really should adopt by the end of this year. I remind you just how many laws we passed over the three years of the Assembly's work, so my proposal would be the following - that the only addition to what the Kolegijum has proposed would be under number 1, the laws that are temporary character, which are prescribed by the Office of the High Representative, be at the assembly's consideration, and not the ultimatum adopted, that we understand each other. - Today, according to each of these proposals of the chairmans, or the Kolegijum of Chairmans, it is my suggestion that we start from 1 of the Election Law in BiH, and if you respect this supplement, and someone else has suggested that the laws that have been prescribed be put on the agenda, that we go by law. We'll cut the procedure short, if we adopt this, we've done a big job and we insist on doing it by the end of 1999. I think I made myself clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1961	Thank you very much, Ambassador Dokić, Ambassador Prlić, and Ambassador Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1962	Mr. Chairman, I want to say that the Work Programme must be realistic. I'm afraid to make a document that we're going to talk more about on the programme itself than we're going to say what we realized in the time behind us, it refers to, in fact, four months by the end of this year and we need to have some priorities when we talk about this Work Programme. It is good that there was one document that offered the basis for the debate, but it is already quite evident that today we will not be able to adopt this programme for technical reasons, so much of the objections made to this programme and so many new proposals that in technical terms will not be considered regardless of the duration of today's meeting, and it seems to me that we have not fully respected the principle of meeting planning, one significant part of this House depends or is related to the work of other institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first of all two, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency and 40 of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that the BiH presidency should consider this programme, there are a number of issues that are in their respective jurisdiction and that the BiH presidency is proposing them. For example, in one of the previous sessions, the BiH presidency adopted the view that the law on adoption should be passed, not only ratification, international agreements, it concluded that the Foreign Policy Act should also be passed, which we did not transpose into this document here, probably because the BiH presidency is not consulted. Also, the Council of Ministers of BiH is already on several occasions considering a programme of work that is much more comprehensive and, in this respect, it is necessary to find some coordination, I also believe, that very often, as an argument for or against, above all, regarding political sovereignty, the position of international organisations and, on many occasions, the conditions of the Council of Europe, and these are not at all the terms of the Council of Europe, the Council of Europe does not enter into the membership of our bodies, it enters that part of whether we are able to act in accordance with the fundamental principles of parliamentary democracy. It will never say whether there will be nine or 11 of some institutions that will deal with some business, it is a matter of the state itself and it depends on the constitution that each state has. So, it is up to us to decide, when it comes to the Council of Europe, three things are important, the first is: the work of the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the adoption of this Work Programme and the work under this Work Programme, the second is: the condition of implementation of the Court of Human Rights decisions, so the improvement of the situation in that area and the third condition, for the speedy consideration of our accession to the Council of Europe, is, I say, cleaning from these teaching programmes of all those so-called. offensive content, those of content that is directed against members of other peoples, referring to the recent history of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm not saying here in this list that there's something to or shouldn't be, but some things aren't right that the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe are. Also, I believe that one longer list should be provided to be used for the adoption of the Work Programme of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament for 2000, so the second year of the term of office of this is called by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Finally, to recapture my proposal. I believe that the presidency of this House, probably also with the presidency of the second House of Parliamentary Assembly, should be tasked with organising the next session of this House in the next ten days with a agenda that can be agreed, while discussing this document at both the BiH Council of Ministers and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency. I also believe that, and whether they are going to come forward or not, a similar request should also be sent to the parliaments of both entities, and to the parliament of the Federation of BiH and the parliament of Republika Srpska, there are some things that are shared with competences, there may be some initiatives from the entity level, which they believe should be considered at the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, don't take this request as a way of prolonging the adoption of the Work Programme, it's our condition to consider our admission to the Council of Europe, there's a certain need for it, but also, obviously, after these discussions, after what's said, that this will not be objectively possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1963	Thank you. Is there any need to agree before that? There isn't. poslanik Deretić, have Mr Nikola Špirić prepare. 41
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1964	I, too, as well as my predecessors, have received material on this agenda point, so when I say material, a fax notice, where I was delivered a copy of the Programme of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of our Assembly, and after I first read the same, I think I have found, and it is my deep opinion that we have really entered today with too much ambition when it comes to this point of the agenda. To me, the truth, it is really not clear what these are always for, and this is just before Mr Dokić pointed out, it has not yet come out, probably for the reason that it was intended to be delivered here in due time to the MPs and the proposal of the Programme of this House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, therefore, groups of MPs from Republika Srpska, or MP groups, when I was comparing one programme and another I see there is quite a difference, and the basis is precisely what is crucial, and that is whether certain proposals of these laws that have been proposed here and that have entered into the Programme that we have received under the Dayton Agreement, whether they are in line with the Constitution of BiH or not? I am deeply convinced, unfortunately, just a little too little time was that every proposed law that has entered the Programme that we should bring here, therefore, a large majority of them, indeed, is not in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement or the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In this context, you are aware that we have had a meeting of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is precisely in that sense, and has found only in one sentence that it is quite logical to expect us to adopt this Programme, however, that we are not going to evaluate the constitutionality of the law whose consideration is foreseen. Now I hear from some MPs even mention, for example, the law of sport which is absolutely in jurisdiction, and sport, as social activity, is the jurisdiction of the entity, I am really very directed to the work so far, truth, I have not been to this meeting and I am not fully aware of the details in Lozana, however, I know that it will be 23.10 o.g. a meeting in Banja Luka, with representatives of international factors that are most responsible for sport on this planet, and that a decision on the status of sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina will definitely be made, in which way sport and how it will be nurtured and how athletes will develop, among other things, both the entity and Republika Srpska, come out on an international stage. We, by the way, in the entity of Republika Srpska, therefore, have the Sport Act, I suppose there is such a Law on Sport and in the Federation of BiH, but then certain conclusions will be reached which will be regulated by law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because I will be against it for formal and legal reasons, but it can be one agreement that will regulate those things for which entities, when it comes to sport, agreements, are the same case and when they remain, therefore, activities of vital importance for functioning in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the same way I assume that they will be dealt with. It is also not clear to me that certain MPs, whether consciously or unconsciously, constantly when we mention the Madrid Conference, its conclusions and others, always use the term “that we are under obligation” or that it is imposed, etc. etc. In this context, I believe that, and in this sense, I, as an MP from Republika Srpska, will act personally, that I will always vote only for the regulation that is, above all, in the interest of Bosnia and Herzegovina, both entities, if that legal regulation is in line with both the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution and one and the other entity. 42 All that goes beyond that, so it's just from someone and tried to stick it here, I'll be loudly clear, and I'll tell you why I am, and I'll be against it. In that sense, I think, and I also agree with Mr. Dokić's proposal, particularly Mr. Prlić, that there are certain bill proposals here, when I say proposals, I mean only in the name, because I didn't see a draft or bill, that it is really necessary to leave one reasonable time to make an analysis of this Programme, surely there will be and there will be good proposals and there will certainly be more proposals that we here should by the end of the year, whether we will be able to adopt objectively, but in the most recent time, these other plans and proposals will have seats in this programme. So in this context, I would ask here in particular to underline one fact, I cannot accept the fact that we eventually adopt such a programme and that for such a programme today - tomorrow we are in a position to be called by one of the MPs and said, yes - we have adopted the programme and the law that was in that programme and we need to adopt. So we must first come up with one quality program, but based on both the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution and one and another entity. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1965	Thank you very much, Ambassador Špirić, so an MP, Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1966	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you see, today's debate is the best answer to why so far the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has not had any programme. Here, today it is confirmed that it is essentially not easy in the situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located, i.e. the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina, to reach some harmonised programme of work of the Representative Council and the Council of the People of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to say that today is also the absent principle of reality in the production of such documents and, of course, I would like to do everything that, after an extensive debate that is likely to take place today and at the next session, we will come to some minimum of the agreed activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I want to say, first of all, one principled remark on this text, I think for the sake of the way of deciding to fully separate the activities of the Representative Council and the House of Peoples, it is textually necessary to separate them, and that they should sit together today and decide, because here we are talking about the problem of the Representative Council and the House of Nations, and I think that the attempt of any joint work is an attempt to make a one-home parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, will be given political resistance because it is not written in the Dayton Peace Agreement, and neither in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the sooner we understand it, the sooner we will avoid new traps that we are pushing each other into. In the opening remarks here, we should go with the Work Programme of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which contains the most significant tasks with content, deadlines and researchers, and I would delete this 43 further, if we were simply not learning to be parrots of international community representatives. All this says to be done, but I think we just learned some phrases that we're bound to say when one of the representatives of the international community sits down, and as soon as the gentlemen come out, people forget it. Furthermore, I propose that we continue, the proposal for a work programme is the College of the Parliamentary House, the erasure of the House of Peoples, they will likely have an identical or similar or different teaming in adopting legislative projects, and that ultimately it stands: the work of the House of Representatives Commission and to delete the House of Peoples, and to say the House of Representatives. As far as legislative activity is concerned, I am really sorry that today we will not be in a position to realise because what we have heard today, I guess what we will hear, is probably not going to be able to fit into our mandate, regardless of the desire of individual MPs and representatives of the international community who observe our work that this may end in this mandate, not because we will not, but because it is impossible to end it within such a short time, unless we are going to cultivate a practice that is present, unfortunately, in both entities here, not that we are doing legal projects, but that we often bring them from OHR, which are not well-readied, adapted to the language structure, etc. Well, in the end, we end up being ridiculous to ourselves, and we often get legal projects without the right to discuss them at all. I must say that the High Representative has not been given anywhere in any declaration, at any peace conference, the right to declare the law, find me any document in which a high representative has been given the right to declare the law. The second thing is that we have not been able to speak in all legal projects as MPs in this Representative Council, in this sense, with the BiH Election Law, I support the proposal not to stand by the High Representative, but to be the competent committees of the Representative Council, strengthened by a group of experts made by representatives of three peoples and two entities, to try to reach a harmonised electoral project, of course, to use to the greatest extent the services of a series of offices of representatives of the international community, otherwise, if we do not adopt this legal project, that the next elections be made under the Interim Election Law. We must be aware that only one legal project that is voluntary will be valid for Members, peoples and citizens of BiH. So, there's to be a proposal from the competent commission reinforced by an expert team from both entities. Secondly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents, I don't think it's an emergency to discuss the law, since travel documents exist, we're now talking about something that would be a priority to end. Another thing would be that travel documents do not exist, with which BiH citizens and entities can travel and do not see it as a priority. The law establishing the BiH Border Service will experience the same fate as the appointment of the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers, because it will be declared an unconstitutional decision and we must be aware that the Constitutional Court has declared the Co-chair and we propose that it be removed, because if someone makes a mistake, I am not, as an MP, obliged to accept any initiative that is past the Constitution and past the Peace Accords. So, in the programme of work of the Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council, in my view, only those things that are not in collegiate with the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH can be found. Anything else, regardless of whether it was a parliamentary initiative of the College, the Council of Ministers or the Presidency, will not be supported, of course, by me as an MP. The Customs Service Act, I do not think it is within the jurisdiction of the common authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, customs policy is under the BiH Constitution in jurisdiction, but since we have the Customs Policy Act, as far as I know, it has been adopted, it can be discussed, it can be discussed, it can be discussed, it is possible to build new provisions in the Law, but customs service cannot, because it is not in jurisdiction, under the Constitution, BiH. The law on the recognition of public documents in BiH, I think it can go into procedure. The BiH State Service Act is controversial, as it will produce a number of other activities, legal and sublegal acts, which will face political resistance in this House. The BiH State Treasury Act – since the debate is related to the introduction of a state vault in line with the Madrid Declaration in progress, therefore, an expert debate, and it is not yet known whether it will be called a vault, whether it will be called a directory, whether it will be called a Finance Commission, I would not prejudge the name of the law, but rather called the BiH Financial Relations Law. Then, what should be done at the outset, in my view, and in the end, of course, I will say, what amendments I propose, this is only now what I don't think is necessary and that it shouldn't, the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, I think it can go according to this Programme, the Law on Amendments and the Supplements of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because the procedure in the Council of Ministers' Council of BiH, can go into the procedure, I think it can go into the procedure, by making it a stronger explanation of what this legal project refers to, the Law on Ratification and Implementation of International Contracts and International Conventions, I think that it can go into the process in the timing that is given, the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I suggest that it is called the Law on Regulation of Annex 7. A Dayton agreement between refugees and displaced persons in BiH. I think that our ministries on refugees and displaced persons can be called the Ministry of Return, not the Ministry of Problem Resolution of Refugees and Displaced Persons, and that is why I did so in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement. Then, the Law on Immigration and Asylum can go into procedure, in my view, the Transport Act, I suggest and, see what it is, I think it's too ambitious at the time we are in, at the time of building trust, establishing common bodies and institutions, to prejudge legislation. Something can also be called an agreement, if it is on the line to strengthen trust, building institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, can be obtained in the second session, if it turns out well, and a legal project. I therefore propose that the Transport Act is called the Agreement on Inter-entity Cooperation in the area of transport, that the Law on Electricity of BiH is called the Agreement on Inter-entity Co-operation in the field of electricity, that the Law on the Postal Service of BiH is called the Agreement on Inter-entity Cooperation in the area of the Post Office of BiH. I move to b) – I still propose in the legislation, which should be a priority in September, is the Law on the Use and Protection of the Names and Symbols of BiH. 2. The law on the official name and use of official languages in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think these are things that we have to define together, so we don't get into each other's disputes that often get political connotations and we get into a story that's not good. 45 Then I propose a new legal project, a law on the compensation of the property of the refugees and displaced persons from Glamoc municipality, on whose property was built a military polygon. So it's a population category that's not subject to Annex 7. The Dayton Agreement. They have nowhere to go back, they can't go back, so there's got to be a mode of regulation for the compensation and compensation of those people. There is no office in the RS or in the Federation of BiH, nor at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina where these unfortunate people can turn. Well, therefore, this tall House can define the legal project by which these people will be compensated. As for the organisation and mode of work of the House of Representatives, I think it is logical to begin our activities in September with the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. So wherever the People's House writes to delete, they will bring their own Rules of Procedure and I don't think we can, on behalf of the People's House any document, decide on the organisation of the Secretariat, too, the United Nations Work Programme for 2000, and all of this can go further, I think that this defined co-operation with The Hague tribunal requires that this high House be called on – as at all, the United Nations Declaration to call from the High Representative to the Hague tribunal's office, to build trust, in order to build democratic institutions of BiH, entities, to publish secret lists, unless we want to understand that the Srbin hunt in RS or Serbs in BiH is open. I think it is an unremembered example that we have no reaction today to the arrest of the RS military commander who was arrested in an official state delegation in Austria. We can say today that it doesn't matter, we can do it in one way or another, but I'm telling you that human rights will not be realised in accordance with European statutes until as long as we enter the XXI century there are secret lists. The secret lists are not on the line of fostering democratic relations, are not on the line of protection of human rights, are not on the line of confidence in BiH and are not on the line of what I assume this high dom is after, and therefore I demand that this be inserted into the Co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the request of this House to go with open lists of war crimes indictees, not secret lists. Finally, I propose that it be an open list, so what happens if someone proposes to the next session some legislative project which could be urgent to adopt, to go to January. So, to be an open list of legal projects that we're going to talk about in that way with, of course, this sign that's in the end. And finally, I join the initiative to make this a draft, to re-examine all the initiatives of the MPs, and I propose that the voting method be, for each item, for each legislative project proposed, a single statement, rather than a programme as a whole.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1967	Single or special. Especially!). Thank you very much. Please, just to tell MP Špirić that it is clear that the programme of work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is being adopted here and that this joint proposal is a document which, given the nature of the work, will be the basis for the adoption of individual programmes that are absolutely separate, but there is much that will be debated at both one and 46 other homes and there is no reason why we have not started from one joint proposal, but there will continue to be, of course, separate and there is no dispute. In line with the request of the President of the Club of Members of the Coalition of Syllabics, I am taking a 15-minute break and we begin at 15.35 hours, please do not question the continuation of the session. [[Pause]] I suggest we get back to work. We're continuing the debate. Does the president of Parliament Club Syllabic want to meet us, because you asked for a break, and does he need to say something? If there's no need, we'll go with the debate. Ambassador Mrs. Rađević, then Ambassador Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1969	From what we have so far had at this point in the agenda, I think it is clear that it is absolutely not possible for everyone today to adopt the Programme of Labour of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in principle I would suggest that by the end of this session, to give opportunity to all and one MPs, to give their concrete proposal to this Programme, and then to stop this sitting and to give all this material to the Kolegijum who will decide later on their own who to put into this work and to prepare or continue or a new session of the House of Representatives, where then, indeed, the work programme of all these proposals will be made and done. And with that in mind, here, I would specifically propose, although fellow Špirić is in a list of laws, which he proposes to enter into the Work Programme, I would also mention these two, however, I would like to repeat, with perhaps a sentence – two, the arguments that would not easily tempt the Kolegijum to reject them. I really care about getting into the House of Representatives' Work Programme. One name is on the official name and use of the official languages in BiH, because now it is a chaotic state of use of this termology, I think that basically everyone agrees and the essence is not controversial. In BiH, however, there are three equal languages: Croatian, Serbian and Bosniak, the Bosnian language has been offended. Now I ask you, what's Bosnian? I don't think you have to talk, Mr. Silajdžić, because you tried to make a new language out of Serbian and name it Bosnian. [[STAMMERING]] Don't argue with me, listen to me talk, so please answer the word. [[STAMMERING]] So, in my opinion, there are Bosnian languages, not Bosnian, and I think this should be regulated by law. Another law that I believe should be in the Work Programme is the Law on the Use and Protection of the Names and Symbols of BiH, because it is also evident that we now have a chaotic use of the name BiH and where it cannot stand at all, where it does not apply to BiH. I don't think we should leave these two laws out of the Work Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1970	Thank you very much. Ambassador, Mr. Jahić. 47
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1971	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed MPs, I would like to welcome a rather constructive course in the current debate on the Labour Programme of the House of Representatives, although I must express my disagreement with certain parts within Mr. Špirić's discussion, which, for example, states that a law such as the BiH Border Service Act should not be adopted, since, as he says, the BiH Constitutional Court will bring him down. I don't think it's appropriate at all that at this point in the initial phase, we are at all troublesome about the fate of some law, and I don't think it's appropriate for this House to enter into the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court and to take part in their possible decisions about some laws. On the other hand, I do not think it is useful for laws, or draft laws, to be thrown out of the programme, if certain MPs feel that they will not be for them, or as some proposed legislation will run into political resistance by a group of MPs, even if this is also about challenging the constitutional basis of certain laws. Therefore, what I know is that every proposing officer, who has authority, has the right to forward his legislative solutions in the ordinary procedure, and what will be the political position of the MPs under these laws, is, of course, on Parliament itself, in the Assembly itself, to define and therefore I support that everything that is already in the proposal, as proposed by the authorising officers, is to go into this concept of the Parliament's Work Programme. I would give only one suggestion, on page 5, that is the area d) which defines parliamentary co-operation and these other activities, quite passive intonation is present in this sentence where it is said to organise a permanent education for MPs from the domain of parliamentary life, the application of Rules of Procedure, working methods of home and working committees. Instead, I propose a new item that reads: "Creating the necessary technical conditions for continued communication and co-operation among MPs, and a total improvement of parliamentary life at BiH level". As is known, in countries with a high parliamentary tradition, there is the possibility that MPs regularly communicate and exercise their parliamentary activities and powers in certain rooms, in certain conditions, I do not see any reason why they would not insist on allowing all MPs who, by the way, consider the issue of this House to be very little mutually communicated and are most often not staff and some banal misunderstandings to resolve before the House is held, I think it would be appropriate for one such attitude to be integrated into this Work Programme. Finally, I would suggest, too, the conclusion that all acts, i.e. all legislative proposals and all that is received by some tangible form, and especially if they already have some legal acts, if they are drawn up, are delivered to the MPs in good time, given that we have been informed that the draft of the electoral law is over, I think it would be appropriate to ask the OHR that this proposal, as soon as possible, be delivered to all MPs, that we do not have to delay the debate until indefinitely, justifying it by the fact that we have just received this text. So much and thank you. 48
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1972	Thank you very much, Ambassador Jahić. Spiric replica, the Rakić discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1973	I just want to help us understand each other all the way, here, and Mr. Jahić listed a few things. Anything that doesn't comply with the Dejton Constitution and the BiH Constitution, as an MP, will not support and there is no way anyone can insist on it. It is known what the process of change is even the Constitution of BiH, harmonising views. The proposal I make is that on the basis of the establishment of trust, dialogue on the relationship between the entities of the RS and the Federation of BiH, the government and one and the other, so that we can discuss here in a different way. I said last time that the Law on Joint Air Force is vandejton, but that the entity governments agreed that there was no need for us to resist it, although it is not the Dayton Law, I am convinced of that and you know it, but there is no need for anyone to make me do something that is outside of the Dejton and outside the Constitution, there are exactly the responsibilities of the BiH Joint Institutions. For someone, it is also disputed by “joint institutions”. Well, I guess I'm not the signer of Dayton, but the entire international community and authorities: one, two and three. And exactly, the question is, can either of us come up with a proposal here that's out of these documents, that we're wasting our time, unless we want a public review of the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution, but even if we want to, we have to say clearly, I don't like something, I don't think it's in the interest of this and that, so let's discuss. I think Nikola Špirić has warned clearly that the election, the appointment of co-chair of the BiH Constitution, has now been established that the Constitutional Court has said, yes, Mr Špirić, you are right. Is there any of the 9/6 MPs who turn red here today? There isn't. He worked against the Constitution and swore to honor the Constitution of the state to which he belonged. And now Nikola Špirić is against Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the gentlemen who violate the constitution are for BiH. And you know what else is going on, the prominent force that the international community is pouring into certain projects is not good for BiH. This looks like animal training, where for every well run round, a sugar cube is given, and what happens: the animals stay, and the trainers change. Will we accept that role until when, but it's up to us to open up and talk about everything. So everything outside those two documents is not for support, as far as I'm concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1974	Thank you. The Ambassador Dr. Silajdžić, and so far there are no more reports. I beg you, if anyone has any, Dokić. Dr. Crescent.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1975	Thank you. I was a little surprised by this language problem. I don't mind every tongue calling as it pleases, but I also call mine what I want, so Bosnian is my language. It was, I don't know where it came from all of a sudden, it came from this or that. If anyone's interested, I won't talk about 49 more. It was first mentioned in documents in the IX century in Bosnia – Bosnian, I will end it. When it comes to laws, I'm afraid we have a big gap here. By listening to this all together, I think we, unfortunately, still need interventions from the international community. I, for example, think that Madrid's conclusions are what we call them colloquial, so the document adopted in Madrid, that these are binding documents and there's nothing college about it. If that's not the case, then we're very far away. That's why I insist on reforming the judicial system, because it's a commitment from Madrid, reform of the justice system, so we don't have the attorney's office, we don't have a prosecutor's office, we don't have a court in BiH, the international community has seen it, so they interpreted the Dayton Agreement, because we disagree on interpretation, I thought it was a done deal, and, accordingly, they did not just list the laws, but I asked experts to draw drafts. We'll have those laws sooner or later. It would be good for us all, for all BiH citizens, to adopt them as soon as possible. I repeat, among other consequences, we will have no investment. We won't be able to start production without investment, I guess that's clear. Any investor who comes and asks “what is the security of his capital?”. The answer is as it is. We do not have a judicial system, the judicial system must be fully reformed, in order to meet the requirements, as well as everything else. We are talking about the White European Book, we are talking about the Council of Europe, and what we need to do and that is one of the things that we need to do urgently because it is in favour of the citizens of BiH. Not one of us, or one party, or another party, but for the benefit of BiH citizens, if we want to provide fresh capital, investment in conditions, gentlemen, when we have great competition, especially after the Stability Pact. The whole region is looking for investments. How are we going to start production and how are we going to hire people? Well, the least we can agree on is that we need a BiH justice system, not one of the parties or one of the people, but Bosnia and Herzegovina, to protect everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to protect those investments that we need so badly. If we're late here, I'm afraid the consequences will be difficult. That's why I figured out the madridski Conference and the documents, and we should do it, and we all know it has to be, that our country has to have the D.A. and that it has to have the prosecution, that it has to have some kind of court, I'm afraid, if we're late, it's going to hurt everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1976	Thank you, Replica Rađević, Deretić Replic, is a replica and count with time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1977	I fully agree with Mr Silajdžić, and I appreciate that the Bosnian language was mentioned then and then, I would only now, for the sake of clarity, add, then you have admitted that we have spoken in the same language, since recently, because of something you have come to realize that you speak in another language, not in what I speak, I respect that your wish should be approved and fulfilled and made possible, but I do not see why you do not then allow us to have the right to have a language. Excuse me, if you speak Bosnian, we'll discuss the details when the law comes on the agenda, but if you say Bosnian, then it means that it's only one, that it's not three, and I'm saying they have three 50 precisely in the spirit of your desire that since recently you have both a nation and a language. I don't dispute that wish of yours at all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1978	When I spoke about the programme earlier, then on purpose I did not want to open a special discussion about the set of bill initiated by Mr Silajdžić, however, here is the discussion by Mr Silajdžić, who asked me to replicate it. In fact, we obviously misread things, obviously I think quite differently than Mr Silajdžić, he talks about the means, then he talks about the means to get Bosnia and Herzegovina, that according to this basis, so all that the International Community agreed at the conferences, that this is binding, normally, in this context should be one judiciary, I will re-emerge and only refer to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Article 3, point 1 and indent f), which speaks of the implementation of international and inter-entity criminal laws including relations with Interpol. The constitution comes from the existence of an entity judiciary and that nothing has been resolved at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina except what the Constitution provides, the Constitutional Court, etc. etc. Therefore, the full set of laws relating to the judiciary and this institution is absolutely contrary to the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which I will especially say about when the time comes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1979	Thank you very much. Mr. Rakić, then Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1980	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, we have today a very important document to define our work by the end of the year. We discussed it a lot in the last assembly and gave a number of guidelines on how we think this document should be done. I expected that we would get one analysis from which it will be clearly seen, in a country that is being built, but for a long time what has not been established, which legal regulations do not exist and what priorities we need to address. So, I expected, in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina's jurisdiction, to see what has not been done, in the area of the formation of certain organs that have not been formed, which have not been formed, then the organisational laws for the formation of those bodies that should have been formed or not formed. Then come the procedural laws and come the material laws. It's kind of a order, in my view, that should have been so established, systematically, that what we do, we try to build a house from the ground, not on the basis of certain emotions, based on a certain political platform, to push the laws independently, whether they're in this box or not. That is why I will read the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly, don't mind me, it is short, and it is said: The Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for the adoption of the laws necessary for the implementation of decisions of the BiH Presidency or for the exercise of the functions of the Assembly under this Constitution. Obviously, we have a presidency that indifferently refers to the law package, and we need to make laws to implement their 51 decisions. Therefore, the BiH presidency must give its position under this programme, it must give some priority to laws that are very important. Point b), c) and d) I am not going to read, because here I am talking about sources of funding and budgeting, by d) is the decision to agree on the ratification of the contract, and this c) I want to read on purpose because we often don't understand each other or we don't want to understand each other. Other issues needed to exercise its competence, means the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or which are assigned to a joint entity agreement. We're pushing entities aside here, we don't want to ask them anything, they don't need to be negotiated, we're going to sort it out here, and we're going to push the laws that we, by some free feeling, think we should discuss and bring them in. A discussion initiative has been launched here today at the Parliamentary Assembly on the economic and social situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so what is the responsibility of this Assembly to discuss it? What are the constitutional powers of the Assembly, or the Parliamentary Assembly to discuss this, all instruments of economic policy are in entity governments, one and the other, all elements are in entity assemblies. We're going to be looking at the impotence of this one here to discuss our economic situation in Strasbourg, or to get us some laws, or simply to cover ourselves with ash, we've been doing something, so let's put the ball back where it belongs, and let's try to act like it. To be, in such a way, simply, we can be rational and we can bring this work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to one rational method, one method without conflict. After such a debate today and, unfortunately, many of us have received these materials very late, I received them only on Monday, I suggest that we conclude this debate today without the adoption of the programme, to leave another deadline of ten days, to continue this session at which we would bring, practically, the Parliamentary Assembly Work Programme, and to give another 4-5 days to come forward, who has a written proposal to deliver the BiH Presidency and to try to find a compromise for the establishment of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Work Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1981	Thank you very much, Mr. Rakić. Silajdžić, then Muminagić and Mr Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1982	It's a matter of entity and state jurisdiction. The constitution says -- over six months from the entry into force of this constitution, entities will begin negotiations with the aim of including other issues in the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, including the use of energy sources, joint economic projects. Entities have not started these negotiations within six months, and therefore this Assembly, if it will, and central authorities can use the following provision. Bosnia and Herzegovina will assume jurisdiction over the things the entity's consent is about to achieve. The matters provided for in Annex V to the General Framework Agreement, or necessary for the preservation of sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence of the international subjectivity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with the division of competences between 52 institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, may be established as appropriate for the exercise of these powers, so that entities are agreed, if they do not agree, Bosnia and Herzegovina has its responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1983	Let's take the next row, MP Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1984	I would like to replicate in reading the Constitution, this is also before me, the Dayton Constitution also has parts concerning the agreement, and the point 4th power of the Assembly will be a) the adoption of laws that are necessary for the implementation of decisions of the BiH Presidency, or, therefore, it is a fully equal part, in order to fulfil obligations under the jurisdiction of the Assembly under this Constitution, therefore, all obligations under the jurisdiction of the Assembly under this Constitution, well, then, in Article 3, under the responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, its entities and their mutual relations - 1) The responsibility of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the following areas must fall within the jurisdiction of Bosnia and Herzegovina: a) the foreign policy, on all of happiness, we agreed on that and discussed, external trade, we never talked about here at Parliament, including common institutions, such as the external trade chamber, etc.) the foreign policy, which can be clearly related to the laws and the laws of law, etc. Point (g) implementing international criminal laws, otherwise it stands where Bosnia and Herzegovina, does not exist in the Constitution, in spirit and letter of the Constitution, where there are no laws, it must implement international conventions, i.e. international laws, in the case of this, criminal laws that apply to entities as well as to Interpol, these are three parts of a single position, and it is not all confused as it seems, in the interpretation of the construction and operation of joint international communications facilities and connections, it is clear what it is, regulation of traffic between entities and air traffic control. Here, there are several replicas for several MPs, I wanted to read it and because I think it is useful when it is already called to the Constitution to invite everyone to it and, of course, when it comes to language, I want to remind you, in Paris is signed, at the end of 1995, finally this Dayton Peace Agreement, and this is how it was last reported - In Paris, on that day and in 1995, in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian languages, where each text is identical, I think reading and interpreting this Constitution should be precise and authentic. For example, the use of this last position, regarding the jurisdiction of air traffic control, implies appropriate legislation, because it cannot be understood in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina about what is called 53 economic space, because it exists, whether or not it wants, and, on the other hand, towards the sky, because the sky is one above this planet and above and above Bosnia and Herzegovina. By the way, I don't see who can put up an obstacle to debate in Bosnia and Herzegovina today at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the economic situation in our country, so I would like to say, therefore, the replica is about not launching one legitimate initiative, it is in line with the Rules of Procedure, when you get an answer from either the Council of Ministers of BiH or we together when we get together, and if we don't get it, then it is natural that those who have launched and bear responsibility to submit the exposure to give the material and you can give that initiative or some other article in the manner that corresponds to the Rules of Procedure. I think you have fought very well to respect the Rules of Procedure and I would like you to review the initiative of the Members in accordance with their demands, you will see what will be the result. I am convinced that you will make a great contribution to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1985	Thank you, Ambassador Spahić, MP Mrs Muminagić and I ask all MPs to stick to the time and to enter into discussions that are not in line with the Programme.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1986	I would like to say, in light of Mr Rakić's debate on the constitutionality of the debate on economic and social policy in this House, that I should join the proposal of a group of MPs who asked us to put it on the agenda, because I think that the Bosnian-Herzegovina Parliament, within its constitutional competences, cannot go deaf about the economic and social situation we are in today. We can discuss the issue from the point of view of our constitutional powers, from the point of view of the BiH Presidency's issue of coordination, exists in the Constitution, that I do not read or retain members. From the point of view of launching an initiative by the BiH presidency to coordinate on some issues and from the point of view of launching an initiative in entities to resolve some issues of common interest. I think that the implementation of the law by, first of all, the laws that we have not passed and the implementation of the laws of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina are largely intruding into the economic situation, and we can also give our view of what would be good for Bosnia and Herzegovina, for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to solve it in a unique and better way, if it is not accepted, it will not be accepted, but I think it is our responsibility to launch it. And by the way, this is not part of the replica, I'm sorry, I'm just going to briefly join Mr. Bičakčić's proposal to include in the Red Cross Act's work programme, I don't think we should allow the Red Cross, however you will, let us not, let us disable the work of such a significant institution that we all have, I don't know if it's all, but, let's just say, personally in the war, it's been very helpful for me because the only way to find out about mine was that institution. If we make it impossible to connect internationally, we'll make a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1987	Thank you very much. I've sent Dr. Devereaux over here. Dokić, and after that, Mr. Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1988	Gentlemen, I think we've entered a very extensive debate about all of this, probably that's what we should have done, but we need to decide now how to proceed and how to act so far what we've done. It seems quite reasonable to me that Parliamentarian Rakić should consider the possibility of still leaving time for these laws to be searched, and that this Assembly, that we do not end this session today, but to interrupt it and continue it when we agree. I would ask the BiH presidency to plead on this issue and propose to the Assembly how we continue to work. Whether you continue today or tomorrow, or continue for five or ten days, it is my suggestion that all the motions more seriously consider their proposals, reduce to a reasonable measure, a measure in which this Parliament will make an impression of seriousness. The proposals by which we should adopt thirty or more, and 40 laws in one short period are indeed unserious. I would never stand behind it, this looks like legislation to me, it's not a lapus, I chose the word legislation, because, especially if we continue for 5 or 10 days, I suggest that the legislator also write a foothold in the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina from which the proposal arises and that the College consider it, to see what priorities are within a reasonable period of time that we can respect. I'd really like it if we started making a serious deal here, and then we'd be serious and we'd make deals. We don't implement our concrete conclusions, you know, it's also one of the big problems. In order for me not to legislate, I will propose here, and I will deliver that in writing, if the debate is later, one law that has a full foothold in Article 3, Section 2. d) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I will read that article, that is, a stance, and I will define the law. Any entity can, therefore, quote: any entity can enter into agreements with states and international organisations with the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can by law determine that such agreement is not necessary. My proposal for a law would read, the Law on Agreements and Contracts that Bosnia and Herzegovina entities can conclude with other states and international organisations. My second proposal would apply, not to my original, but to someone who proposed it, and I will try to define it, I will submit in writing if discussed later, is to consider the Law which the former High Representative declared temporary and under: (a) in the form of the proposal, therefore, that we are considering in the form of the proposal, if previously, if these laws were previously discussed at the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and were not accepted, and (b) in the form of the draft, if these laws were temporary, the Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina had not considered at all. I personally think that whoever cares about the dignity of this Assembly, and individually each of us MPs, doesn't need to explain this and that this should be the first thing of all our obligations. And if you are calling on the Council of Europe, here, and I will call on it, that 55 is one of the conditions, that the Assembly is doing its job, that institutions are doing their job, and some organisations that are there to help us prepare for self-sustaining peace, etc., etc. And while I'm already behind the pay phone, within the Programme, those other points b), c) and d) I don't even know what it really is, there are things that are in this Programme that we've been provided needlessly, such as the internal page or communicating with the media, it's not the work of the Assembly at all, it's a matter of the leadership of the Assembly to present what we do and give to the public, there are other things like that, it needs to be cleaned up, so to say. That's not part of the program. But I think that the Programme should include, here, I can say that this is also the conclusion of the Commission's foreign policy which had a brief meeting in the break, in the first break, and our conclusion is that we are asking for a programme to be introduced into the Assembly's programme to invite international delegations to visit the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly. So, let's make a program of who and when to call. I think we should make this programme for 2000, we're late for this one, and secondly, to make a call-in program, where congregation delegations will visit, as the first measure to respond to calls that there's a lot for this year, and then see for the next one. That's it, on my side. So my proposal is now that the BiH presidency declares itself to continue this assembly, so that it does not turn into a chat. I think a lot of people have made a lot of arguments based on which we could cut right now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1989	Thank you, Dr. Dokić. I have a proposal to allow two other registered debaters to speak, here is the third, and then to take a short break, without leaving the room, to meet with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs and agree on what to do next in line with Mr Dokić's proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kadić, next up is Mrs. Perkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1990	Ladies and gentlemen, so as much as a man decides that during one session he won't speak, he does come, unfortunately, in an opportunity to speak. First, about the procedure, I think we need to make the necessary communication after this, and I will propose it at this meeting, both with the Council of Ministers of BiH and with the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to reach a real Work Programme. Secondly, I would like to say that the president of the Working Group for the construction of the Election Law has promised me, as President of the Constitutional Commission, that the electoral law will end by July 14th and will then deliver it to the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At this point, as far as I am aware, the electoral law working in a working group formed by the OHR, or the OSCE, has not yet come to the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as the body that should receive it. Therefore, I want to make it clear that both those who are perfectly organized than us have a much better salary in that variant, already late month and a half. I would also like to get fully serious from this pay phone, as the President of the Constitutional Commission, and as an MP here to call on the High Representative's Office, 56 for the speedy delivery of this bill so that we can comply with some obligations, because I consider it a very important issue. Third thing, in a certain way, replica. In her replica to Mr Silajdžić, Mrs Rađević said in a bit in anger and at the end of her line a sentence which, at the very least, burned my ears, it is a kind of benvolent sentence that reads this way: “I appreciate your right to, that recently, since you have a nation, you have a language.” Now there are two kinds of interpretations. So, if I appreciate that Mrs. Rađević is a noble observer of civilization, so for centuries, the existence of one nation has been treated recently, but if, however, it wasn't so, and so it sounded to me, that it didn't sound so noble, then, at least, I would have invited better experts than me to make an announcement about that claim, and she, as a member of another people, to imagine over the fact that only then or only recently, by that poorer version of interpretation, had a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1991	Thank you very much. Ambassador Mrs. Perkanović, then an MP, Mr. Neimarlija. And if possible, I suggest we bring an end to the discussion, if possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1992	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, here we have heard many suggestions and many criticisms on the Work Programme and I join those MPs before me who have come out with one opinion that time is given in the next 10 days to review all these laws that are included in the Programme, to respect the new proposals that we have heard now and who may have already entered some procedure or are in preparation and to prepare thoroughly for the next session or to be, in fact, to continue this session and to be in the Draft. Before it comes to that, I suggest that the responsibility of the institutions and bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina be well clarified, and what is in the competences of the entity authorities. We have heard many laws here, there have been criticisms and proposals that are contrary to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and are not within the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but exclusively the jurisdiction of the entities. It is tačan that entities can agree with each other on things that do not stand in the Constitution that they can be placed in the jurisdiction of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but until they agree and until they establish their agreement, we cannot decide on them. There is no problem taking into account one law, the problem is that the law requires the establishment of institutions. The formation of institutions requires funding. We're not in a situation where we can finance duplication of institutions, double institutions. Therefore, we need to think about it carefully and prepare well. My proposal is like a proposal from MPs who have been able to postpone this, to prepare ourselves well, to read the materials well, to give in writing their proposals of law and opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1993	Thank you very much. 57 Messenger, Mr. Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1994	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, I have just given up the discussion in which I thought I would say my opinion on the Proposal for a Programme of Work of our House and offer, for my part, some additions and adjustments to the organisation of work, adoption or introduction into the process of legal projects envisaged by this Programme. Now I have come out, not to put it out, but to make one principled point, given the discussion that we are, or a major part of the discussion, which was accompanied by the proposal of the Work Programme, which was simply defined, above all, according to the needs set by the conditions for our accession to the Council of Europe and according to the obligations of Madrid and other documents which bind us and which, therefore, I have simply considered to be appropriate to submit it to discussions that might lead to some kind of party consideration of something which, in itself, is too understandable, too appropriate to even be characterized as important. All parties represented in this House have declared that they are for integration into European integration flows. In these flows, i.e. European institutions, we are going as the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. as citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In doing so, in terms of citizenship, I have in mind the freshest spreads, so to speak, the meanings of this concept in terms of its determination by civil or civil rights, the obligations and freedoms of citizens and, in that sense, the laws that we are obliged to adopt simply assume something which is a fundamental fact, so to speak, these European institutions, in the sense that they are initiated and that they are carried, above all, by economic integration in Europe, and that they are marked or assigned to us as integration, in terms of harmonising legal order or legal system. It is our obligation to make Bosnia and Herzegovina a legal community and to bring this order into line with these legal standards of Europe. We don't have much space, we can talk, but the Constitution also predicts, of course, the harmonisation of the law with the European Charters. Entry into these integrations, into the Council of Europe and other European associations, of course, assumes the harmonisation of all legal acts, whatever level they are, with these European legal standards. I mentioned economic integration, in terms of, in particular, replication and the issue of economic strategy and agreement and the rest between entities for the simple reason that the countries which actors of European integration themselves have transferred part of their economic sovereignty to these European institutions, as is the case with legal systems. And on that side, in fact, I went out to express my disagreement with the conduct of the discussion that takes us to the ground on which it is possible, even, to use extremely inappropriate, I would say, metaphors in terms of trainers and animals, or, in the same way, to me, an inappropriate definition of the founder for the simple reason that, expressing the unpreparedness to pass laws ourselves, we then force someone else to pass laws, and at the same time we are all, at least we all claim that we are for the involvement of Bosnia and Herzegovina in European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1995	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. Replica, Mrs. Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1996	With apologies for coming out so many times, Mr. Kadić's replica. And it would not be a replica of what has been said recently, and I will comment on it, only that, indeed, recently, it is a nation called the Bošnjak, and I have known you all my life as countrymen, acquaintances, friends and family of musliman. But I wouldn't go out there, but Mr. Kadić asked me a question, I'm a member of another people, and why are you Musliman just now admitting as a nation, I thought it was my fault that you and my people were not allowed to do so. Well, here, I answer. You have, indeed, been carelessly and yourself admitted that you have, therefore, started a war, because you were dissatisfied and wanted to achieve the goal of winning a nation, etc. Well, then please, if that's how it is, if you admit it, don't keep accusing Srbin that the aggressors were in this civil war that just ended and, please, that we're not really expanding this topic anymore, we'll have a chance when the law comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1997	Replica. Mr. Ambassador Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u1998	Ladies and gentlemen, so I didn't accidentally use the term that, unfortunately, I had to go out for a pay phone. I must admit that I have made an effort to make another part of this replica of Mrs. Rađević and I am not listening, because it seems to me that it is for the intervention of the chairman of this House. Mr. Chairman, on the agenda, there has never been a story of a language before, or a story of a nation, or a story of recognition, or, etc., etc. That's why, since I'm holding on to the dignity of this House, I don't want to comment any further, I think the lady has already said everything herself in favor of her own harm. Thank you. Thank you very much. I accept the criticism and, gentlemen, from now on, I will interrupt the debate of all those who do not stick to the agenda, so you know. I wanted to be tolerated, however, obviously that tolerance is being abused, but on all sides. I can't, please, I can't, I can't allow discussion anymore, I'm sorry, but I can't allow discussion, because I accept that more discussion here today was beyond the agenda point and in the future I will allow myself the right of business to interrupt such discussions, but I ask you to help such discussions break up and there's no problem. I don't have, look, I want all the questions to be discussed and that's the only reason I've allowed discussions, because people who don't talk, can't understand, can't even hear, after all, but what's there. 59 I have no objection to give an opportunity, if this has caused yet another replica, it is the right of an apostle to replicate and I will not challenge anyone's right not to speak. Do you wish to replicate? If you have, I'll give. I don't think there's any need for that, and don't. Please, I'm closing the work on this agenda point and I'm calling, first of all, a five-minute break without going out and inviting the presidents of the Members' clubs to a short deal here at the table. Right here at the table. [[Short break]] In agreement with the presidents of the MPs' clubs, I suggest that the session be suspended at this item of the agenda and that the new session be scheduled for 10 September, excuse me, not a new session, but a continuation of the session for 10 September at 11 o'clock. We're gonna do 10 again, and we're not gonna go, so let me tell you, it's a shame, 'cause it's best if we make an appointment at 7:00 and get going. I don't mind, please, at 10 o'clock, so 10 o'clock. Nine, and nine. 9. at 17 without a call, therefore, please know, without a call, I am holding a session of the extended College with the presidents of parliamentary clubs and MPs who do not have a parliamentary club where we will sit at 17 hours and analyse the final proposal on the basis of this discussion that has been held today, and until then, the College and the Constitutional Commission will take a position on the final proposal of the Work Programme and will be there at that session still modified to complete this item very quickly, effectively, that part of the agenda. Of course, thank Parliamentarian Kadić very much, until then we will be looking again, although we have asked, so you know, I repeat, we will ask once again to make sure that our remarks on the Work Programme delivers, suggestions, the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH. And I'm asking the Secretariat to hear this very well and to make this happen right now. Look, we'll deliver to them, in addition to what we delivered, all these suggestions that were here and we'll tell them, and you, if you have anything else. So, no, we can't have that, Dr. Lagumdžija, we can't deliver it to them on Thursday, because there's no time, but we're gonna get them the right thing to do today, we delivered the earlier proposal and we say, gentlemen, do you have any objections, please. So, please, gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm interrupting the session. I'm scheduled to proceed by 10. Nine o'clock, 10 o'clock. Thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 5:00. End
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2000	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, we are continuing with the work of the 9th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I find there are 27 MPs present in the hall, so we have a quorum to work with. Before continuing to work, I'd like to inform you of the following. We, as agreed, held a meeting last night with representatives of parliamentary clubs and MPs who do not have parliamentary clubs and colleges of both homes. We've been working on harmonising our views on the Work Programme. At the end of the session it was established and there was no reaction either to the objections by those present or by the Secretariat that today at 10 o'clock on the table must be found the latest consensually agreed proposal of the Work Programme. At ten o'clock, it wasn't there. I was told that it would be by 11 o'clock and that during that period, by 11 o'clock, MP clubs would have at least 30 minutes to see what was new in relation to the earlier proposal in the Work Programme. I respect the efforts of the members of the Secretariat, and I also appreciate the fact that their number is very small to serve the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, but I cannot, as chairman, accept that this is the second time that for technical reasons we are delaying the start of the House session. This shows the public one bad side of our work. So we open up space to the media to ask what's going on, right? And on this occasion, on behalf of and on behalf Kolegijum g. Pere Skopljak's member, I don't know if I have the consent of Mr. Genjac, he will plead, I haven't had a chance to ask him, I give public criticism to the members of the Secretariat for the non-preparation of material for the session. I repeat that I accept their obligations as very difficult, very responsible, I know they worked, but last night it should not have happened that no one responds to the conclusion that at 10 o'clock there must be material in front of the MPs. Niko one reacted. That's what happened last time we had an hour-and-a-half break instead of a 30-minute break to get the record on the table. Please, if this happens the third time, I'm going to propose some other solutions to the House of Representatives. And please make this the last time. The second thing I'm saying is, it's unacceptable, gentlemen, that outside the Rules of Procedure, they're due indefinitely. It takes 10, 15 minutes, half an hour, and it stays an hour and a half. For the last time, I would like to inform you, under full responsibility, of my actions, that after five minutes of the expiry of the time required for a break of work and to inform the public that I am interrupting the work because of whoever requested a break and did not show up at the O.R. at the scheduled time, or because of those MPs who did not appear at the scheduled time in the O.R. We have no right anymore, none of us, it means that, first of all, I am telling myself, no one has the right to delay the work of a home in this way and to present to the public the work of a high home. I refer this to those, sir, who behave in an inappropriate manner, and I apologize to MPs who are very responsible and respect the agreed rules and business obligations as MPs. Once again, I ask you to help me, me and the members of the Kolegijum, to work in the way that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure have been established, and I think there are a lot of reasons and a lot of need for us to raise our work to one higher level. The absence from this session was announced by Mr Ivo Mijačević for his illness. Other MPs have not announced their absence, and I ask that this service register. 61 Also, at the beginning of this sequel, I would like to suggest that the service for the next session prepare for us the names of the presence and absence of the MPs, justified and unwarranted, and that it be after the adoption of the minutes, if you agree, as MPs, so be it. And now I suggest we move on to the agenda set out in the previous session and now simply continue to work on the established agenda. You have now received on the table a version of the Work Programme that has been consensually agreed by the presidents of parliamentary clubs and members of the College. There is material in front of you that no one has had any objections from those present. There have been other proposals, but we have taken such an approach that what has received consensus enters the Work Programme, and that today we will give the proposal an opportunity, excuse me, that today we will give the opportunity, first of all, to all Members to offer their amendments and additions to which we will plead equally with the proposed proposal. I am now putting forward a proposal, the latest Work Programme, to discuss and open a debate on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2001	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Co-chairing Ministers, I would like to draw attention to one fact. We, first of all, worked late here last night, representatives of clubs, coalitions, parties with the kolegij and Secretariat almost ten hours and this magnetogram exists from that meeting. So I'd like to draw attention to two facts. I would like to say in my own name that I greatly appreciate the efforts of the Secretariat that made the document in all three languages: Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian and presented it to us for discussion. What is missing in this document, in these papers, and it was an obligation under our agreement, is information about this, clearly from yesterday's meeting, why what was in the previous programme was not treated here, and it was announced: the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents, the Law establishing the Border Service, the Customs Service Act, the Transport Act, the Law on Electricity of BiH and the Law on the Postal Services of BiH. We said that Parliament would be informed about this, that there were objections from certain clubs, MPs, etc., coalitions, to these laws and at the same time made a commitment to clarify this today at this session of Parliament. I suggested that we adopt this programme that we had last time on the agenda, as minimum commitments from the Madrid Conference and entry into the Council of Europe. It wasn't accepted, but it went as a point by point by accepting that logic. All the participants of the discussion are also aware, here is the majority of these representatives, our decision that what someone has set as a dispute, where we could not agree to enter into this version of the programme that we are now offering, which should simply pass by a statement, necessarily come into the procedure most normal because it is basic acts from the priority laws required by the Madrid Declaration. I ask that this be done in the way we agreed last night because I don't see that the sekretarijat has prepared it, I don't know if it's on them or anyone else, that agreement we made to make it very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2002	Thank you very much. It's true we didn't throw anything away last night. I repeat again, in the proposal that lies before you is what the consensus was reached for last night. It is true that no other points, no initiatives, I repeat, we have rejected any initiatives, none, but what lies ahead of you is harmonised by those present. Those were, as Mr. Skopljak says, priorities. I think you got, I don't know, if you didn't get one slip, that you got a list of all the initiatives and suggestions that weren't in that program. They didn't get it. I'm begging you right now, Bogićević answered. Please, there's that intervention at the scene, there's... Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2003	Your Honor, it is true that last night the extended College with representatives of the parliamentary clubs reached a consensus in that part of the Programme that is today ahead of us. It is a reduced programme even compared to the one we received for the previous Parliament meeting. So, on those draft laws, information and others, we didn't have a consensus on all those present, and that's why I needed to come forward on behalf of the SDP BiH Club. We, what has been achieved by consensus, accept. We accept, we propose the overall content of the proposal for a programme that we received for the last session and the proposal of the SDP BiH MPs that you received, and it is proposed to the previous session of Parliament. Of course, there is a question of the reality of such a large program. We think that in the next hundred days by the end of this year it is possible to implement this Programme, although, of course, the question is why we were waiting for September to adopt the Work Programme for this year. For the simple reason, everything proposed, everything we have proposed for this House of Parliament, we consider it a priority because of the realization of the Madrid Declaration and the admission of BiH to the Council of Europe. The story is that we are approaching Europe, that the reception was due in May of this year, and then in September, and then again in January of this month, I think it is no longer acceptable for BiH, nor for this Parliament's responsibility, nor for the public. By January of this month, it is necessary for this Parliament from the domain of its competence to adopt all that is the request of the Council of Europe. By January, this Parliament must adopt everything the Madrid Declaration requires, as a premise for entry into the Council of Europe and the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, and therefore we propose that this Programme, consensually adopted, on the basis of the principles we also adopted last night, that the Madrid Declaration, the Council of Europe, the Parliament's initiatives, should not be entered into the jurisdiction of entity parliaments and that the amendment act. Please also accept this as my amendment to the Consensual Programme, that the entire Programme be the one we had for the previous session, plus the SDP Members' Club proposals you received for today's session, which were given at the last session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2004	Thank you very much. Before I give up, I just want to say that Mr. Bogićević said last night, in fact, he had no objection to these adopted criteria that we adopted before work, on the Programme, I just want to say those criteria for 63 to know what we were doing while we brought this in. Our first attitude was to make the Programme realistic and realistic. What's worth bringing us a wish program that doesn't stand a chance of being. The second we put the basis for the debate to be the draft proposed by the College. The third position was to give priority to the laws necessary for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe – the Council of Europe. The fourth to include all initiatives by the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, through a regular procedure regulated by the Rules of Procedure and the conclusion of this House, when it comes to the adoption of acts. Fifth, to accept and analyse the conclusions of the Madrid Declaration, to see what we have done and what else we have to do, and we have entered that into the Programme. The sixth that we do not enter the areas that are under the authority of the entities and the seventh that here today, because of the efficiency of the work, we will propose to make concrete remarks to a particular point of the Programme, or to a particular area that is regulated, that we know what the remark refers to so that we can work effectively so as not to come back to the position that we have to interrupt the session, sum up the proposals and resuscitate in the endless adoption of the Programme. That's why I'm thinking, gentlemen, if this House cares about bringing in a program to see where we have consent and say: it's not a question. Secondly, no initiative under the Programme that is in front of you has been stopped and is not said to be in September at the session if we pass the procedure that we adopted and which is in the Rules of Procedure. So much for that. g. Bogićević's intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2005	To avoid misunderstandings, last night and now I agree entirely with the principles that you have laid down and which I have repeated except that the principle of reality was not formally recorded but was in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2006	Number one, here, here in front of me, number one, I'm asking to be accepted under number one. The order of application is as follows: Čaršimamović, Kadić, Čolo, Rakić, Deretić, Malkić, Muminagić, Tokić, Špirić, Filipović. Is there anyone else I can write down all the MPs, so I don't have a problem. Okay. Mr. Čaršimamović. Here's a proposal, if the honourable MP agrees with us to come forward? Is it accepted that the discussion is shortened – can we make that clear? He wants to talk, so we'll talk later. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2007	I usually speak briefly and I'll be brief now. I would ask you to provide attention in this room so that an MP who was behind the pay phone could tell everyone to listen to him. Secondly, to your question I usually speak briefly, I think it's both concise and enough for two minutes. What I'd like to say is that it's a re-intervention of the College and you personally. You said in your opening statement that no initiative was rejected. I'd like to point that out to one remark. We spoke last time about 64 proposals and today we are talking about a proposal for the Programme. So everything else that was in the discussion was welcome and we said that this proposal should possibly be extended. However, today's proposal has a cut compared to the previous proposal, which means that you rejected, as a College, that you rejected some things. I will only point to three laws that are close to me, professionally close, which have been expelled, and the obligation is from the Madrid Conference. It's the Transport Act, the Electricity Act and the Postal Services Act. I will say my opinion as to why it is necessary for such laws to be passed in a very fast procedure. These laws are impossible at the entity level to resolve, if we want to protect the rights of users in these areas: the rights of electricity users, the rights of postal users and the rights of users in transport. If we don't pass these laws, it will happen that those who provide these services will begin to negotiate at the expense of the users, and we, gentlemen, are here because of the people in BiH and their rights. That is why I do not agree with your approach to talk about that minimum, but I agree with your principle that in the minimum of the proposal, the minimum of the programme should be what we need to meet from the Madrid Conference and the conditions of the Council of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2008	Thank you very much. I ask you, if the rule is true, that your proposals be reunited with the Secretariat. Is the Secretariat able to track this down to write it down? You got it. Thanks, everything's fine. The word has an MP, Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2009	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no doubt necessary for this House of Representatives to bring its Work Programme. We, with that in mind, had a very hard time last night and we came to what Mr. Banjac, the chairman, said. So what you have on the tables is the consent of everyone without exception. What is, however, controversial and what seems to me to be the subject of the inability to continue this session is the fact that there are laws which are obligations under the Madrid Declaration and which the High Representative pointed out in a letter saying that it is essential that the remaining four months be given priority to laws, i.e. activities in the Madrid Declaration. I believe and suggest that, that is, I am asking for a break until the Secretariat has secured the text of the laws that were in the previous draft work, which are the obligations of the Madrid Declaration that we have highlighted, which have not entered into what is consensual consent and what we have on the table. So we have consensual consent. We have, therefore, what the consensus is about at the College. We have all the initiatives of the MPs. That's what you got on the tables, everything that's at this point in the parliamentary procedure, but we don't have the text of the laws we asked to enter the Work Programme, and because of the opposition of one, two or more club MPs didn't enter, but we don't have them specially prepared. That's why I'm asking for a break until the Secretariat provides that text, or a list of laws, so that we can get back to work.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2010	I beg you, sir. - Right away the replica, just a moment, and I'll give it a chance. Mr. Kadić, the Secretariat is already extracting the list of four laws, or six, already being drawn. I don't think so, if you're giving up your break because on behalf of the MPs' club, that's what you're looking for. Look, there's already work on it. You're giving up. It's already on the job. It's being prepared, and are you giving up your break? He's giving up on the replica. Let's move on. Alma Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2011	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in the preamble to this proposal for a work programme states that the Programme contains the realization of the Madrid Declaration. You also delivered us a letter from the High Representative, just before the session, which states that priority should be given to the laws provided for by the Madrid Declaration. Most of what the Madrid Declaration predicts, the truth, has been introduced into this Work Programme proposal. However, in part two, the Madrid Declaration, where it stands, the legal rules, said to join the judicial system reform in BiH. You know that the UN Security Council has adopted a resolution establishing a judicial system assessment programme in BiH, and this programme is already taking place at the level of both the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. However, in this legal act, it says that judicial institutions at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be established in accordance with the Venice Commission's opinion. I therefore have one concrete proposal and I propose an amendment, given that I today see the proposal for a work programme as the final text of the proposal for a programme and that MPs can act in amendment. I propose adding one new point to the Work Programme, which will have the title: The adoption of a law on the establishment of judicial institutions at the level of the state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2012	I'm asking you to write it down. The word has an MP, Rakić. I'd like to, as Vito comes out, tell you to quote it as it says. It says here that these are the most significant legal acts, not all of them. And, please, it's on the front page. [[STAMMERING NOW]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2013	... also calls for a letter from the High Representative saying that all laws required by the Madrid Declaration are incorporated into the Work Programme.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2014	I agree with that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2015	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, we have had a last debate on the Work Programme. We had a very long discussion while we brought in those two declarations that we were making a series of proposals, ideas, what should be regulated, what we should do by the end of the year. At the last meeting, after that debate that lasted a long time, in which we got a lot of ideas, after which we got materials from the discussions what who suggested. So we have all the materials in front of us, and since last 66 sessions, we have today's proposal. We have then locked up and said we call together representatives of the parliamentary clubs, we call on the College to offer us one summary material. I would suggest that we take this debate to two parts today. Let's first see if we accept this, if this is some kind of framework, and then say, we have another two, three, five laws that are, we're going to have a debate on these laws, and then we're going to vote to determine whether these laws are going into the Programme or not. We can now take a series of ideas here and bring this debate, I don't know, or run it for a long time today. I think the principles adopted by the College with party representatives are very correct. We're going to have a series of analyses, let's say some, let's look at the 2000 program, etc. But we have to get into one reality. Let's go back to how long has the Parliament Assembly, since the Dayton Agreement, passed the law? How many laws do we propose in about a hundred days now? So, to be brief and clear, I suggest we discuss this material first, whether we have any objections or no objections, and then to find out what anyone else thinks, what we should be entering into the Programme and, on the basis of that, to end this debate, if we really want to get to this Programme today, and not again to form some committee or to go back to some sort of consensus that I don't think is necessary because I think we need to effectively schedule meetings to start individual projects in realisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2016	Does that mean, Ambassador Rakić, that you're looking for a vote on this proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2017	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2018	Thank you. I give my word to Ambassador Deretić, and let the MP Malkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2019	My colleagues chaired, honourable fellow Members, in principle, since I was not at the meeting yesterday, but I read this material, or the proposal for a programme carefully, in principle, I think it may be acceptable as the material that we should decide on, although I, in principle, on several draft laws that have entered this Programme may have objections. However, I would point out here another thing that I have to look specifically at, which is that here from some MPs is that what the Peace Implementation Council is about, is starting with London, the Bonn Conference, the Conference in Luxembourg, the Conference in Madrid, which it adopted, that it must be adopted without any discussion, in order for us to enter the Council of Europe. So, I think none here, not just an MP, but a man who sits is not against it, therefore, that BiH enters the Council of Europe as soon as possible. I am in principle against knowingly breaking what the international community has committed every man, when I say every man in BiH, then I think of every political party and every politician in 67 that time he put his signature on the Dayton Agreement. I would like to say that certain provisions in the Council are directly against the Dayton Agreement and the BiH Constitution. With that in mind, I've said that for the last time here about this speaker, I, unfortunately, will never be because, nor will I raise my hand to enter into the Programme any kind of project, some kind of bill that is contrary to the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. Unfortunately, I here have a brightness of examples to state, therefore, that now, after the Madrid conference, Parliament is being pressured. Unfortunately, the standoffs are in a certain circle and the number of MPs who, for a variety of reasons, are now being pressured by the Representative Council, that we, at any cost, adopt something here, even adopt to enter the Programme, and then it will be an obligation that we have entered into the Programme to adopt. So, I'm principled against it. So, we can discuss everything here, on every proposal of every MP, every party, however, we must Decidently state whether such a proposal has a foothold in the positive legal regulations, first of all, the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2020	Thank you very much. I now, at the request of the CD coalition, am giving a break up to 12 hours and 20 minutes. A break to study this material of these laws that have been left out of this consensual act and they will report... I beg you at 12 and 20. Pause Gentlemen, we've just run out of five more minutes of what we said we'd respect, and I suggest we continue our work. We have a representative of the Club of Members of the CD coalition regarding the break to inform you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2022	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, honored guests, the Coalition Club for a Full and Democratic BiH held its meeting in this break. We have considered the document that has today been set up as what a consensus has been reached on at an extended meeting of the College of the House of Representatives. Respecting the fact that it is a common container, this is what everyone agreed on, of course, one number of parties, including the Coalition for a Full and Democratic BiH, and all the parties inside asked for much more, but much of it was not accepted. It is known that the coalition's MPs for a full and democratic BiH have long demanded for insistence on the adoption of a number of laws needed by BiH and all its citizens. Part of those laws, which coalition MPs have asked to pass for a long time, have also coincided with decisions and obligations of the Madrid Declaration. Therefore, it is the view of the CD Coalition Club that the commitments of the Madrid Declaration must be made by the work programme of the House of Representatives by the end of this year. This means that the Law amending and supplementing the law on travel documents of BiH, which is binding on the Madrid Declaration, should be contained in the Programme, the Law establishing the BiH Border Service, which is in line with the Platform for the 68th entry of BiH into the membership of the Council of Europe, should also be an integral part of the Programme; then the Customs Service Act; then the Transport Act which is the obligation of the Madrid Declaration; then the Law on Electricity of BiH, also, the obligation of the Madrid Declaration; and the Law on the establishment of the BiH Court Institutions at the level of BiH. These seven proposals are also our position and our proposal to be an integral part of the Programme for the Work of the House of Representatives by the end of this year. In addition, in principle, by staying on the board that the Work Programme of the House of Representatives should contain the obligations of the Madrid Declaration and all that has been adopted as principles for the preparation of the Programme at the College meeting, we will not support the proposal to vote first on the document that has been built today, and then on amendments, but we will vote first on amendments, and then on the whole document that will get the final appearance after the submission of all proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2023	Thank you very much. I want to get to know the MPs first, because I think, if it's right to know the truth, then we have to say it in public, that last night in the Work Programme we included information on the implementation of the requirements of the Madrid Declaration because a lot of them, the requirements, are realised and we put it in the Programme in September of the month, and that we later said: everything that is not realised will go into the ordinary procedure according to the Interim Rules and the conclusion of the Assembly, which means that this remark of the CD coalition does not stand, in my opinion, because it is embedded in the document that lies before you and consensually last night, and I'm surprised that Mr Genjac did not say that because we agreed to do so, the procedure, so, analysis, so let's see what is not – whether it is just our own, I ask you, there are a lot of obligations from the Madrid Declaration that not only the Assembly, but also some bodies and other bodies and other bodies at the level of common institutions. So all I'm asking is that you keep in mind and nothing else. So no one said it wouldn't be, just to say it. It says, "I'm sorry, it says." We can't be taxing when we're looking for the first analysis. In the analysis, it should be said: realized, not realised. What hasn't been realized, let's go see the process of realization. That's how it's done. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2024	I couldn't agree with that argument.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2025	Sorry, you had to tell your club president who was there last night. It's too high for me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2026	I speak here as an MP. So, my opinion, and I have the right to present it. If you claim that everything that is not realised from the Madrid Declaration will be included, I can at this time claim that all these laws, 69 if they are not in the Programme, will not be realised. This means, pragmatically thinking, it means that it will have to be on this Programme and because it will have to be on the Programme and not to be about it – taxively enter all these things and solve the problem because you said it would be included. If it's going to be included, then enter it taxively and you've solved the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2027	Okay. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2028	Dear gentlemen, I had a proposal for a supplement for the Programme of Labour of the House of Representatives and at point c) of the Analytical and Informative Activity, in subsection 5: Information on the conduct of Annex 7. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. I would extend this sub-point 5 to: Information on the conduct of Annex, and under: - Annex 1a) The agreement on military aspects of the peace agreement where we have in Article 9, where the issue of exchange of prisoners is also potential, and the fact is that we still have a prisoner in various prisons; - then, point g) of the obligation under the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, we still have outstanding war criminals under arrest; - Anex 3., here is a permanent Electoral Law. We are witnessing the latest writing of the press and the OSCE posters where some things are prejudged there, I wouldn't talk about them right now. - then we have a problem with polling stations for those who vote, who come to vote in person, and who are exiled, where they vote on the edges of the municipality, have no opportunity to come to their municipality to vote, or at the centre of the municipality; - then Annex 4 that speaks about the Constitution where we should get information about the compliance of the entity constitution with the Constitution of BiH, or the Dayton Constitution; - then the constitutionality of individual institutions and organisations at the level of BiH; - Annex 6 where we should have information about the Human Rights Agreement, such as respect for human rights in certain territories and it is necessary to get information as far as it has arrived with the establishment of the Ombudsman's Office in RS; - Anex 7, the Agreement on Refugee and Displaced Persons, it is necessary to have information as many people express their desire to return, how many property returns have been made, how many have returned. - Annex 8, the Agreement on the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments where we should have information that is protected and destroyed in BiH and who destroyed them; - in point d) of the Labour Programme of the House of Representatives stands out: parliamentary cooperation and other activities, I propose that a new cartoon also plan a visit to the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration and Asylum to municipalities and their congregations, i.e.... ...to municipalities and their congregations, or councils, at least one municipality in the month to promote and respect human rights. First of all, to obtain certain information on these municipalities, as far as 70 respect for the European Convention on Human Rights has come, then, until they have reached the realization of the right to return, i.e. the return of property and other issues that the Commission would have to discuss on their visit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2030	Please, MP, give it to the Secretariat so it can be classified. Thank you very much. Ambassador, Mr. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2031	I must say that I was surprised when I received this new program that a certain reduction was made, i.e., a reduction of the proposals we had last time because I felt that a good number of proposals that were made during the debate on the Programme deserved to find places in the Programme. That's not what I'm up for. I'm in favour of a rational approach, but I'm not in favour of setting ourselves a minimum task right now. I am in favour of setting a maximum task because I have accepted, as an MP, to work in Parliament. We are required, given the situation in the country, given our position in the world, to accept the maximum tasks for ourselves. I'm aware that we won't be able to do anything, but let's just say that when we can't, when we get into a situation that we can't overcome, we'll give ourselves a priority, right at the beginning of next year, in January, and that's why I took the floor. I think we need to get closer to this programme, not because we are the three laws that the High Representative has now asked us to put on the agenda, which we have adopted, that we reduce something else now. I think we should go up there and set ourselves wider or, say better, the maximum task, work till the end of the year because we're expected to do it. I'm saying that I was surprised that the laws that we've been through, as far as I've been following the debate, there were no suggestions to be removed from the Work Programme. I can accept that we have different opinions on laws, and that does not mean that we can't bring them into debate and find, that is, on the basis of the arguments, that something is wrong and not acceptable. But in any case, we'd have to make this list of six laws, and I'll say what those are: the Law of Amendments and the amendments to the Law on travel documents. I note that here, when we discussed this Law – the proposal of the Social Democratic Party did not go through, that we received from the College an explanation that this law would be on the agenda because it is proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, and now we reduce the Work Programme and we do not want to put it on the agenda. Law establishing the BiH Border Service; Customs Service Act; Transport Act; Act on Electricity of BiH; Law on Postage Services of Bosnia and Herzegovina. With the proposed programme, however, we have the Law on Holidays, but I note that this Law is in the process, and the SDP MPs are Divković and Tokić, so I would like to ask that this is in mind and correct here. If there are two proposals, I have nothing against it, but it is already in the procedure of the Law, therefore, it will come to the agenda under this Programme. I note that we would also have to agree on the laws given by SDP MPs because we agreed at the last session that we would receive an interpretation of the Constitutional Commission on the procedure of voting on the Law on Joint Police Forces to combat terrorism, inter-entity 71 crime and corruption, unauthorized drug trafficking. In any case, this Law should be in the Programme because it will be reenacted. I would ask that we approach this way, not to reduce the Programme, but to make a statement about these proposals that we had last time and which we now insist on. A good number of these information materials we're going to talk about will probably indicate what we haven't done yet. But what we know now, which we don't need information for, which we know we didn't, I think we'd have to put it on the agenda, which we know we didn't fall under the obligation of the Madrid conference.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2032	Thank you very much. I ask you to submit your proposals to the Secretariat so that we can agree to them, so that I can come to the vote. The word has an MP, Tokić. I apologize, Ambassador Tokić, there is a replica of Mr. Skopljak on this discussion, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2033	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to use the two minutes we've been given the right to do, I'm just going to warn you about a few things, that is, the fact that last night, in an extended college, we agreed and agreed on how to be maximumly cooperative, that is to say, to help people who are well-intentioned to create and participate in the process of democratisation. And in this context, if we were to set some priorities, in our opinion, that is, if, on the other hand, we were to comment on any representative or representative at that session yesterday that we should, for reasons of consensus, leave this list here, which you now have, thank Bog, everyone on the table, does not mean that these laws were put in place ad act, or that they were prolonged for a long time, they are going into the procedure, as far as I understand it, and I want to explain it here, but we just don't think that we would be in a positive process, so that we wouldn't be an obstacle to BiH's accession to the democratisation, or to the international community that here, indeed, is making the maximum effort to create one of us that will be suited to European and world parameters and, in that context, we were just trying to be realistic, as far as I know, according to how we've done so far as we are now, we can be able to do, and this one thing that we've promised. And I say, I'd like to turn tomorrow into the most effective parliament to vote on all these laws. So it's not about suspending or prolonging any of these laws indefinitely, each of them is needed. But let's just say that the fact that we're going abroad with passports like we already have, maybe they're not what they should be, adequate, but the fact that we're going, going through, and with some other passports, maybe we're making it easier to exercise some rights, or let's say, formal legal crossing across the border, then in that context, I think that some people thought that this might be possible, let's say, conditionally prolonging. It was indeed a well-intentioned proposal, and I would like these proposals to be considered in this context, i.e., I clearly support them as a man who was present last night, how much health I was allowed, and took part in the discussion. I suggest that this proposal really be accepted as something necessary and something 72 that we thought was realistic that we could still achieve, and it is not understood that these laws, let's say, under the grain, have been prolonged, or released, if it can somehow be bypassed or not voted. I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2034	Thank you very much, Mr. Skopljak. The word is Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2035	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, has been mentioned during the debate so far, quite thunderingly, four terms, and these are: one reality, minimum, co-operation, interpretation of the Dayton Peace Dispute. And all four terms were used in the direction of the adoption of the Programme submitted by the College as a legitimate proposal to this parliamentary session. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to stress that the minimum that Bosnia and Herzegovina should have achieved is the Madrid Declaration and the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. It's a minimum. If someone wants to put us below that minimum, we're not ready to accept a lower level. We are not at the same time ready to accept the reality in which Bosnia and Herzegovina, based on work so far, says counterpart Skopljak, will remain in this status that it is. I would remind you, Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in the Council of Europe and instead of having a dramatic discussion today about why we are not in the Council of Europe, we, through the media and through today's debate, are trying to blur the eyes of the local public as we are getting closer to the Council of Europe forgetting that only a few countries are not in the Council of Europe. We do not accept the reality of BiH being in the company of Belarus, the Lukašenko regime, to be in the company of the Milošević regime, which, de facto, follows the only countries that are not in the Council of Europe. We don't want to accept this reality and we want to make it clear. I must tell you that neither the citizens nor the peoples of BiH accept this reality, whoever is today trying to explain that it is in the interest of the people, the entities, any units of BiH to adopt today an even more consensual programme, in my view, please, do not say what the mood of citizens and peoples is. It's the Dayton interpretation, the media's running low, this Parliament's interpretation of the Dayton Agreement. The Dayton Agreement, a colleague of Deretić, provides only one interpreter of the Dayton Agreement. His name is High Representative. Neither you can interpret, nor can Mr Izetbegović interpret that there is no need to delegate, nor anyone can interpret in RS, one that is in principle with his interpretation of the Dayton Agreement allowing the creation of an ambience of guaranteeing people who have returned to their homes around Gacka. Such interpretations of the Dayton Peace Agreement are against the Dayton Peace Agreement. I'd like the self-proclaimed interpreters to stop. The interpretation of the Dayton Peace Agreement, related to the Work Programme of this House, is written on the page and a half and a very clear one. If someone has a claim that now on this interpretation which must minimally include the Work Programme to its interpretation, I, indeed, do not know who he is trying to distract in this hall or in the overall Bosnian Herzegovina public. There is no co-operation on which we will agree to delay normalisation of life in BiH and there is no argument that will now say that it is not possible until the new year to resolve all the minimum conditions, included in 73 what is proposed by the College and included in what the Social Democratic Party amendment is said clearly in writing form through 18 points. Chairman, please don't change the Interim Rules of Procedure. Your College, which I wouldn't be talking about right now, has made one suggestion. It's a legitimate proposal. Under the rules of procedure of the Rules of Procedure, each document comes first with a statement on amendments and then a proposal. Be assured, without these amendments, which represent the lowest minimum, the Social Democratic Party is not ready, in the name of false co-operation, on behalf of accepting this reality, on behalf of the minimums that you advocate, on behalf of the self-called Dayton interpreters, to accept such a program. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the amendment summarised in writing, not all MPs received, has the Secretariat in 18 points. That proposal should be put in place before a statement on the College's proposal. I thank and ask that you do not use large words of acceptance of the reality of the Dayton Peace Dispute for what is opposed to both Dayton and the interests of three constituent peoples and all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2036	Thank you very much. It's 10 to 1 now and we've got a break due to the juma up to 20 to 2. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Pause After break I respected the time we agreed on. What I can do, the gentlemen will come. We have a quorum. Five minutes passed as agreed. We're moving on. I invite the MP, Mrs Filipović, to take the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Deretić's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2038	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to remind you, this is a replica of Mr. Tokić's discussion. There are certain dilemmas here as to what I said. So, it's not a disputed exercise, I'll repeat it again, it's not a disputed implementation of either the Dayton Agreement or any of the declarations that I just mentioned or the Madrid, or decisions from the Madrid Conference. The problem is that all this must be returned and followed by the procedure provided for in the agreements and which is envisaged, above all, by the constitutions. We have a constitution in RS. What is not within the jurisdiction of the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH, can be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Representative Council, or House, but provided that certain issues first pass a certain procedure, Mr. Tokić, first of all, I am telling you because obviously you do not know certain things. No, no, excuse me, please, according to this, a certain procedure is scheduled to pass. You know that such issues, under the RS Constitution, in order for a particular issue to pass and receive support, must have a two-thirds majority of the RS Assembly. So far, I have not considered it necessary for me to point out here and now I point out because it has clearly shown that it is necessary. That's one thing. 74 As for this second quote of yours about the self-called Dayton interpreter, so in the context of this sentence of your mentioning my name and last name, I, Mr. Tokić, unfortunately, am reluctant to do so, just to say that I am safe, at least by calling, more measurable than you, to interpret the Dayton Agreement and all other regulations. It's on one side. On the other hand, I also have to point out another fact, which is that I have never dealt with politics – I began to deal only after the Dayton Agreement was signed, unlike you. You were involved in politics before 1992 and, unfortunately, the result of your policy led, unfortunately, to what occurred in '92. A year. It's also known what you did in '92. For years, don't think nobody knows that, and in the end, you're not who you were anymore, now you're a multiethnic, democratic, etc., not to mention that now. But I'm surprised at just one question, and I'm going to ask here, next to this replica of mine, you belong to the strongest recalling party in the Federation of BiH. It would be very interesting to say that you say this from your mouth, how many refugees and displaced persons have returned to the Federation of BiH, and how many have returned Bošnjak and Hrvat to RS. I'd like to hear it from you. Because so far I hear – from you everything I've heard, it was just rhetoric, you know, half-Dayton is defined and, unfortunately, the public will recognize it very quickly, you know, so in this context, if you have the data, you say it here after the microphone, and if you don't have it, call me, and I'll be here in front of the Representative Council of Europe, and everything else that the international community is asking for in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2039	Tokić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2040	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, you have well said that the Social Democratic Party is the strongest opposition, Bosnian Herzegovina party and the only party in this Parliament that has both Srbin and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, and if you think we will fall into that trap to explain now how good it is that so many Bošnjak or Srbin or Hrvat, Bošnjak and Srbin have returned to the Federation of BiH, are wrong. For us, every man is as important, as is every refugee in the entire BiH territory. And there's our difference. You speak from a narrow, purely national political option. For us is equal obstruction and implementation of the Sarajevo Declaration, equal obstruction and return of Bošnjak, Hrvat or Srbin to Banja Luka. We don't fall into those traps and talk from that point of view. And for us, there is no data on which negative programmes, negative concepts of any government in RS, or the authorities in the Federation of BiH will agree, which is more or less negative. Our concept is a multiethnic concept, a concept of BiH with equal peoples and with citizens who will be given an equal chance. And when I speak, I tell you responsibly, I don't speak for Bošnjak, I don't speak for the Federation of BiH, I speak for.... ... on behalf of Bošnjak, I do not speak on behalf of the Federation of BiH, I speak on behalf of tens of thousands of people in RS, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak from all over BiH who, finally, want to take off and extended from the war of nationalist, nascular privileges and concepts that prevent BiH from being different from what Lukashenko Belarus or Milosevic Yugoslavia is. Bosnia and Herzegovina deserves better than what is said in this House and that is the essence of my discussion and debate. And you find a partner, someone from the U.S. and HDZ and compete in numbers as far as they go back. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I want to tell you, in both the RS and the Federation of BiH, both in Hercegovina and Trebinje, and in Sarajevo, and Tuzlo, and in Banjaluk, few people have returned because of such policies, because of the count. No Niko has the right to count any man by the national key, as if someone had returned there or here. You're competing in concepts that will obstruct the Dayton Peace Agreement more. And it is a self-titled interpreter of the Dayton Agreement. If you are alluding to your profession of law, I am not a lawyer, but what I said was to quote a politician from pre-war Yugoslavia, Serbian politician Nikola Pašić: "I can't lay eggs, but I know what is stammering." The fact that you are pushing as a legal policy, it is a musk, it has nothing to do with the law, it has nothing to do with the Dayton Agreement, it has nothing to do with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, ultimately, it has nothing to do with the Madrid Declaration and what Parliament had to do with today, and it is to adopt a minimum programme at the level required by the Madrid Declaration and which requires the Constitution of BiH that requires minimum conditions for entry into the Council of Europe. And your logic of conflicting what Dayton is, indeed, you must discuss within yourself, your conscience, if you will, agree with the letter of High Representative Petritsch, I will repeat, he is the authorised representative for the interpretation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank Bog he's authorized. Because if you were to interpret such an interpretation or would be given to the various representatives of the ruling political parties to interpret the Dayton Peace Accords, he would return to antagonism, war and the past, which, indeed, is not an interest... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2042	Thank you very much. Replica, Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2043	Unfortunately, I've heard nothing from Mr. Tokić, but just so far I've heard plain pamphlets and nothing else. First of all, I do not belong to the nationalist option that you mention because my party, first of all, is not in a coalition with Slog or with another, therefore, political option made by the SDS and made up of the Serbian Radical Party. I'm here in favour of strict compliance with the Dayton Agreement. But you're right when you say aneks 10. is. The Dayton Agreement provides for the interpretation of the Dayton Agreement, so, among other things, you mention the High Representative, Mr. Westendorp, and now g. Petritsch. However, there is a fundamental difference between you and me. I will never accept, even if one of the high officials ordered it, if something is not in line with the same Dayton Agreement that the international community has made, and I have just stated that there are a number of examples that are not in line with the Dayton Agreement and what the international community has adopted with its subsequent decisions absolutely derrogated and I will now say, exclusively or in most cases, at the expense of the Serb people in RS. 76
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2044	Thank you very much. I suggest we move on. The word has an MP, Lagumdžija, and after that, MP Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2045	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, let's get back to the discussion of the Work Programme and the follow-up session from a few days ago. The first question we need to ask ourselves all together, what do we even want with this Work Programme when we get into this situation? As far as we are concerned, we believe that this Work Programme should, first of all, make us all together, both this BiH Parliament and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency serious and not exhaust ourselves on what points will be in the Work Programme, but when they are in the Work Programme, how they become reality. I would not like to repeat everything that has already been said, that it is perfectly natural that what is the obligations of the Madrid Declaration, the obligations arising from all the mass of documents that have been distributed to all MPs concerning the entry into the Council of Europe, are necessary to find themselves in the Work Programme. I insist on removing the word "important" tasks from the Work Programme here, from its preamble. So, it says here that the Work Programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives contains the most important tasks, to reject the word "important" to replace the word "all". So, from the preamble to the text we adopted at the outset, it turns out that, in our opinion, all that is necessary in order to meet the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe and the implementation of the documents that are listed here. Accepting that, and I'm guessing that's not controversial, I'd like to draw attention to a few things. Gentlemen of the College, you have agreed not only to throw away the mass of things that are clearly in the obligations arising from the desire to join the Council of Europe, but even failed to agree and you have succeeded in removing those tasks resulting from our own decisions. I'll remind you, the Law on Joint Political Forces, on the prevention of terrorism, inter-entity crime and corruption and unauthorized drug trafficking. I do not know whether you have agreed or not, but we do not care at all, it is an obligation arising from Parliament's appropriate decision. Then, the information concerning the Promdej Bank affair and the ongoing investigations and criminal charges related to the abuse and position of the Central Bank's official, as well as other information on violations of the accounts of the National Bank of BiH, that is, the Central Bank of BiH and the measures for their legal and financial sanctioning, as defined in Chapter II, point 1. Annual Central Bank Report 1998 You have thrown out of the proposal for a work programme which I believe, apparently, I believe, by consensus, which is the points and obligations that we have made in this House that they are obliged to give. You, therefore, have agreed to derogate the decisions of this Parliament. I'm just quoting this as an example as far as your alignment goes. You have no right to agree and offer us something contrary to this House's decisions. However, I am looking, as an MP, and I have been waiting for the discussion to go a little longer in its course, I really cannot understand that Mr. Bičakčić, not that he has not answered his word, but I can see that he is not, as the chairman of our delegation in Strasbourg, did not find 77 appropriate to inform us in front of that delegation what he is, and what is not in his opinion and in the opinion of that delegation about the condition... I, too, cannot understand that Mr. Jadranko Prlić, who I see here, is not here to answer the question, has not told us, as foreign minister at first, what is not the condition or condition, however you will, for the reception and opening here the possibility of discussing it. I cannot understand that no one from the Council of Ministers of BiH has so far found it appropriate to end this outwitting which is not a condition for the Council of Europe and to tell us what is the position of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent ministry, or the competent commission, which is and what is not. And, in the end, I think it's high time we all got serious together and were given answers to these questions from the competent ministries, services, call it whatever you want, the Council of Ministers of BiH and so on. And finally, I remind you, here, Mr. Genjac remembers, and you, Mr. Banjac, weren't in this House at the time, the first meetings of the College were led by Mr. Bildt, and then Mr. Štajner attended it, and then Mr. Šumaher, everything was going down, so to say, international factors, officials who were trying to influence us. And in the end we came to yesterday from the College session even one clerk who was relatively lower than the leading OHR people, even he didn't find fit to stay at the College until the end. I'm just drawing attention that this stops being interested in both the ordinary world and the international factor and the international community, and that all together we're discussing is becoming less and less important and that it's a lesson for us to get a little serious. I can only tell you one thing. They've been here lately serious people in front of the international community and they've been talking to a lot of people here and it's a very clear thing, this is one state and it's going to be multiethnic and the world is going to help us for a year, two, maybe three, and this is going to be one country of equal nations, the only question is whether they're going to be poor, poor and poor. This way it will, unfortunately, be one country of equal peoples, a multi-ethnic one, but unfortunately, it will be poor, poor and run away from it. As far as we're concerned, it's an unacceptable program in the form in which the College offered it and, if you want us to end this trouble, let us vote on all this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2046	I want to introduce Mr Lagumdžija to the fact that it is true that in the two conclusions made by the Assembly, which have not been made, that it is true. But also, I would like to draw attention to the MP that your representative was sitting there last night, and he did not say in any sentence that this should be entered into the Programme. So here I don't understand relations within the MPs' clubs. I'm familiar with the parliamentary practice in which the vice president of the Parliament Club accepts something and the MPs come to him in the morning and say, "Pop dots, it's no longer worth it, we're going from the beginning." Furthermore, just a moment, please, why do you overlook the fact that in the programme of work under point 1 of the Analytical and Information Activity, there is the Information on the realisation of the list of conditions for the accession of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the Council of Europe? Why do you also overlook that under point 2 is the information on the implementation of the request from the Madrid Declaration? Which is why, gentlemen, you do not realize that at the end of this, we realize that everything that is not realised goes into regular procedure as a priority for BiH to be admitted to the Council of Europe. 78 And now, look, I have a feeling, you can condemn it however you want, there's no problem that here and there's no problem in the Work Programme because he's come down long ago on the sideline, but there are some things else. When last night's conclusion is that no MPs' initiative, any one, will be removed, will be put into the ordinary procedure and will be discussed, anyone who proposes it, evenly with what is proposed in a consensually adopted proposal for the programme. I don't criticize anyone with this, I just want, the information works, and the public does, to say it's true. Why, gentlemen, we lost five hours of time last night if no one respects what we did last night? I don't understand what we were sitting here last night. I'm just asking, I guess it's free to ask. And if we're going to meet like that in the future and make arrangements so we can spend the night and say, you know, what we agreed on isn't worth it. Will anyone at least have a moral remorse over such procedures? I'm standing behind it last night and I'm going to raise my hand for what we agreed, and I'm going to raise my hand, plus that, all the things that people bring out here, and it's in line with the acts we talked about. What else do we want? Here you go, MP, is that a replica of me? Two, three, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2047	As head of the MPs' club who attended the College last night, to facilitate today's work, without any obligation, all I could suggest last night, I suggested. Everything I said last night and today I stand behind it and without a break, I ask that all MPs be given a stenogram from last night's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2048	Please, have you suggested, MP, answer my question because it is very important – two conclusions that Mr Lagumdžija spoke about. You didn't suggest. Here, responsibly, under full responsibility, you didn't do this about the Promdee Bank or this other one he was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2049	Well, that's an integral part of our proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2050	Please, sir, when we were establishing last night, you didn't suggest it. I'm responsible for that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2051	Did I, Mr. Chairman, share with all the members of the College SDP proposal for the Work Programme? [[STAMMERING: Yes]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2052	But after that, sir, we went together, we agreed on every single point, and that didn't get in line, if it was, tell me I wasn't right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2053	Well, it's not because you didn't have a consensus. You've crossed the Program [[STAMMERING]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2054	No, there was no consensus about it. I responsibly claim that no one has spoken, if it is, please, you present say, rise, say that what I'm saying is not true. Come on, please, come on, please, it's exactly what you're saying, I don't mind getting in and if it was suggested last night, it would have entered the program, there wouldn't be this story you're talking about right now. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2055	The proposal that we shared last night for everyone who has received today, all MPs, implies that our proposal for the completion of the Work Programme is by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2056	Nobody slowed that down. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Is the replica the same? It's not a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2057	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, it may be a little unusual, but I'm obliged to warn you before I start saying you're not interrupting me because I see it's become a norm of behavior here and I wouldn't want to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2058	Don't appreciate anything in advance, sir, if I do it, do it, don't go ahead. So why is he talking to me, I have to answer him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2059	I can go on. I'd like to start now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2060	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2061	Here, you know, the people say "alaselamet" in one people, each people has similar expressions, so I think, Bog forbid, is it possible that you, Mr. Chairman, are acting like this, that a man behind a pay phone who is a messenger like you are interrupting, before he even started speaking. But that really 80 looks like it's going to be a long time before you learn it, and, truth be told, then you probably won't be an MP or an agent, so it'll become relevant. However, to return to the replica I announced. Since you took note that this is what I was talking about in the Work Programme under c) Analytical and Information Activity, I read point 1. Information on the implementation of the list of conditions for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, and then also exists under the 2nd Madrid Declaration. I have drawn attention to the fact that you have derivated this House's conclusion, and the conclusion of this Parliament is, see the minutes adopted at the beginning of this session, as follows: We need to make arrangements for the implementation of the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe, the implementation of the Madrid Declaration and the Stability Pact. So, esteemed gentlemen from the College, Parliament's conclusion was not information, we are not interested in information, in our own way, but in our own terms, but in our own terms, and with our responsibilities. That's a huge difference. So, you've changed Parliament's conclusion and yet you're trying to get us into some debate that's going to lead to us being confused here. Looks like you're too messed up. I can't help you with that anymore. In particular, you have confused the fact that all of what we have proposed and that we have provided you in writing, delivered in writing, I repeat, what my colleague Bogićević was talking about, these are all the conditions that we should have met by September of this year, so that in September we may be able to have a conversation on whether we should be admitted at all this year and you have brought us into the debate on whether or not, and in what terms we may be admitted to this Council of Europe, etc. etc. Dear gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, all that we insist on entering the Work Programme, this was our obligation until September, and we tried to at least put it in, so it would be by the end of this year. And that is why, colleague Banjac, we are not asking and we do not want to vote at all on our proposals that have already been adopted in this House. They are understood and you are obliged to put them, like the College, inside and you have no right to have a debate about them. You have no right to, as a College, derogate the decisions of this body. And so, please, when it comes to the vote, there will be a sekretarijat to which you have given the letter, to give the sekretarijat a warrant to type out a new Work Programme that has a minimum of what you have agreed and what has already been decided here, and then you can ask in this House to vote on having that out and to change the decisions he has made. You have no right, not at all, to put such a suggestion before us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2062	Thank you very much. I'll use the replica as an MP. Your Honor, Mr. MP, you are well known, surely, as a scientific worker that any serious program precedes analysis. In order to create a program, you need to see what it is that has to be done, what is done and what is left. You are now denying this Parliament's programme. You have said well, and I am absolutely in agreement with your opinion that someone here should have appeared in front of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but once told this Parliament what these are really, what are the conditions for BiH to join the Council of Europe. We were here last night, you weren't there, but he was a representative of your club, that's what we discussed, and we couldn't agree on. Someone says one thing, someone else, 81 some three conditions, some four, and one ten. I honestly don't know what the conditions are. I trust everyone because everyone carries some kind of document and reads from every document. We even had a chance to see one document from the first quarter of this year, in May, it says something else, in the last document that only writes three terms and we have all these documents together. What's really true about these documents? We are here to stop Parliament's work because simply someone has not sat down and done that analysis. I absolutely agree with you that one of the conclusions, if you mean it, then I support it, is that an emergency procedure requires the position of the BiH Council of Ministers on what is a condition and that we put it all in place. It's not a dispute, my people. I don't see any reason why we haven't already done it and stopped this torture. Secondly, what I have or do not have, I am not a College, I am Mirko Banjac, a member of the College and have two other men, therefore, I am not a plural but a single one and I am very happy to cooperate with my colleagues and I can say that I am doing it successfully. And the fact that we respected that we had agreed on something, I did not in democratic practice see criticism at the expense of the treaty. Criticism can be directed to those who do not negotiate. I give my word to Mrs Filipović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2063	Can you read the order?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2064	...the speaker. Špirić, so Dokić goes to Jahić now. I won't forget anyone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2065	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have here a list of laws that have obtained consensus at your meeting yesterday. So the criterion by which they are sorted is, in fact, that you who sat in that body achieved consensus, and that is not the criteria of a real priority that will make us a state and integrate us into European institutions. We have a consensus, as well as a BiH Parliament, and the Presidency of our country, staying in Strasbourg, has publicly announced at a parliamentary session before the Parliamentarys of the Council of Europe that there is a consensus to join Europe. If that is true, then in this list of laws that must be passed for the next three and a half months, as long as we have until the New Year, it must be in the first place of the BiH Borders Act, and in the second judicial laws and laws on an independent judiciary, without talking about the Law of Respect for Human Rights. So, without these laws, the Party for BiH, and I dare say most of our coalition partners, will not vote in favour of this bill whose priority was only the consensus of those present. As for the conditions for admission to the Council of Europe, I fear that we are not all sufficiently informed, and you, as chairman, I assume you know that an action plan has been adopted which is the Council of Ministers, i.e. the co-chair of our Council of Ministers, the Bosnian Herzegovina, so the Action Plan has been adopted, very detailed and very good, which has also been commended to the Committee on Political Affairs of the Council of Europe. So, this action plan we have to do exists and we voted it in May. 82 I'd like to say that Dr. Halis Silajdžić has been working on laws since 1997. He did not only give the title of the law that should be passed but also the predicate of these laws, I will be free to read them quickly and that is: the Law on the Protection of Human Rights established by international conventions; the Criminal Law of BiH; the Law on the Court of Justice, on the Defence, on administration, on administrative disputes of BiH; the Law on the establishment and registration of institutions, on property, on the transport of real estate, public documents, interstate and inter-entity road transport, on transport, on transport, on the security of transport, on international and inter-entity communications and on the financing of railway infrastructures. If we had discussed these plans, our work would have been far easier. And as for the non-recognition of individual parliamentarians regarding the conditions for entry into the Council of Evopa, I propose that from the last sessions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights and the Committee on Political Affairs, therefore, what has been delivered to us by delegates in front of this Parliament in the Council of Europe, be translated and divided into all parliamentarians and that you all get to know each other nicely for the next session and when we have not already mastered the Action Plan. Here's what Mrs. Gerdelblum was saying the other day in Ohrid and what Mr. Agrimson, or Blocer, was saying in Raykavik. Thank you very much. So, please, the Law on Borders and the Law on the Judiciary if we want to stop corruption, then without those two laws, we can't expect any results.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2066	I ask you to bring this proposal in line with the Secretariat. Thank you. Špirić, Dokić, Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2067	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I must regretfully conclude that today, as many times as we have, we have fallen into one trap that, chasing the maximum, we have lost the desired minimum that should have long ended in this House. We need to make it clear, in front of the BiH public, that we blame ourselves without interference in our guilt and calling on the international community. In order to move specifically to the Programme, I must make it clear to the BiH public today, that it must be made clear who does not want the Parliamentary Assembly Programme of BiH and whose atmosphere without the Programme is extremely relevant. We have had a constructive meeting on the proposal of all parliamentary parties, but I must clearly see that, without the presence of MP Silajdžić, the CD Coalition is not working, and then sometimes copies are painted in Mr Genjac, and I see sometimes in Mr Tokić, too, that the CD Coalition programme is a representative council programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. If that's what you're thinking, then you need to make it clear why the CD Coalition isn't responding to the Representative Council Program. Because it has forever been called for by an extended hand decorated in the High Representative, and BiH, a delayed entry into the Council of Europe for a reason, 83 there writes well, Mrs Filipović read, because parliamentarians did not do their job, but the high representative passed the largest number of laws in the Representative's Council. I think the time has come to put an end to changing thesis. And what I noticed in the previous debate, that there is a new coalition in BiH at hand, which is a coalition between the CD coalition and the Social Democrats of BiH. I don't think there's any need to cover it up. It should be made clear that there are parallel things between these two political options. Now let me move on to the program, because we sat for four hours and debated. I think a normal MP, let's not say a normal serious MP, will advocate that BiH's admission to the Council of Europe be a priority. Let's see what the conditions are. From professional services, from Parliamentarians in the Council of Europe who are calling for what Mrs Filipović is calling for, it is said that the condition to adopt four laws listed here under 1, 2, 3 and 4. I ask that today be made aware of who does not want to adopt the Work Programme which implies the adoption of these legal regulations. There's no additional conditioning. Who wants to, who doesn't want to. I don't think there's more to BiH than adopting legal projects to join the Council of Europe and build good neighbourly and diplomatic relations with the environment. I therefore propose that this, Malta not, be put in the same plane and suggest that in this Programme, behind point (b) stands a point (c) which will reads as follows: “Instituting good neighbourly and diplomatic relations with the environment” and under 1) that the parliamentary delegation of the Representative Council of BiH in October-November visit the parliament of the SR Yugoslavia and that the parliamentary delegation visit the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia during this period of this Council”. So, that's what the Presidential College is in charge of. We need to make it clear that we care about establishing good neighbourly relations. You remember the debate for the adoption of the Law on Citizenship. We can't talk about the rhetoric, about getting something into the program, and we're skillfully avoiding it. Visiting parliamentary delegations does not mean establishing diplomatic relations, but it means that we are aware of the situation in which we were that good neighbourly bring must be established and that there is no more work for BiH than this way of working. And that's why I'm ready to make it a special point. In my legislative activity, I propose that the BiH State Treasury Act, since one of the criteria was that the title of the legislative project should not prejudge the things that are regulated legally, that it bears the title of the BiH Financial Relations Law. Here's why. Because the expert debate on the vault is not finished yet, because it is not known whether it will be called the vault or whether it will be a financial commission or be the finance ministry, that we simply do not prejudge the professional solutions that are under way. Furthermore, I propose that parliamentary co-operation and other activities find their place in front of the Analytical-Informative Activities of the Representative Council, I think that would be logical. Finally, when it comes to parliamentary co-operation and other activities involving co-operation with the UN tribunal in The Hague in light of UN Resolution No. 1207th of 1998, I think this should stand in any case, but here I want to call on what Mr Lagumdžija was talking about – I will send you to the Vienna Convention of 18 April 1961 and the Agreement on Measures to Strengthen Trust and Security in BiH signed in Vienna on 26 July 1966, Article 4, says: “1. In order to perform functions more effectively and with a view to implementing the Agreement and not for its own benefit, inspectors, team members, 84 observers, monitors and visitors, members of military liaison missions and representatives, representatives of the Joint Consultative Commission, the following privileges and immunities will be granted: their person will be non-injurious, he or she will not be subject to any form of arrest or detention. The receiving party will treat them with due respect and will take all appropriate steps to prevent any attack on their or their personality, freedom or dignity. It will enjoy immunity from the criminal jurisdiction of the receiving party and will enjoy its civil and administrative jurisdiction. He'll have no obligation to testify as a witness. Their immunity from the competent parties will not be exempted from the competent party which sends it.” So it's a translation. I want to – I claim that BiH is internationally recognised. I ask you, is General Talić a BiH citizen? I'm not asking you to feel sorry for General Talić. Did BiH react in the manner of the arrest in line with the document it signed? I'm not saying how she was supposed to react. Has the Representative Council of Parliament called? It's not. Who are we talking about as a state? Who we're talking about is that Bosnia and Herzegovina is taking over the information it needs to take over, and so I'm asking you that, if we mean co-operation that is necessary, crimes are things that don't get old. Therefore, the manner of co-operation with the Hashi tribunal, the establishment of trust, the protection of human rights does not undermine the secret lists. Is this Parliament going to advocate removing a veil of secrets from secret indictments? Who does that suit? Or are we Parliament, if that does not apply to the citizens of RS, then this is the Federation of BiH Parliament. If we are a state, we must debate as citizens of that state, and if we are not to make it clear that the BiH state is as the High Representative sees it, which is called by Mr Tokić, not by MPs in the Representative Council. So I really need to draw attention, here, to the chairman, that it would be good for him to let the parliamentary debate go and there's no need for everyone to answer, I don't mean to replicate with the MPs and to approach the vote once. Today we'll see who wants the program, who won't. I assure you that we had a constructive debate last night until 8:00, with no party president present, unfortunately, but they seem to be wondering, by 9:00, half past ten, and we've come to the beginning. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2068	Replica, Tokić, and Genjac. Spy, make those suggestions over there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2069	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Obviously one fact needs to be repeated, and Špirić and previous debaters, the Social Democratic Party will not do this. We are against this Programme because this Programme stops Bosnia and Herzegovina on the tail of Europe. It is economical that leads it to poverty and it stops its involvement in European integration and we are against it. To make it even clearer, Špirić helped in his discussion because he is obviously not in favour of joining BiH in Europe. Not for contacts with European integration, but for saving what is in Europe, I don't know who else intends to save, and that is Milosevic's regime and I don't know who has the intention of saving Yugoslavia. I am taking the opportunity to express my astonishment that one MP of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, past the official RS government's views, past all international conventions, advocates parliamentary co-operation, I assume that after that, we should all, 85 after we talk to Milosevic's regime, we should go to Lukašenko. You create such good neighbourly relations, this is the path that you probably choose, and your colleagues choose, but the path that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has no intention of moving on and we will stand up to it, that is quite another time. And let me be clear, you don't have to repeat, we are against this programme that you have reduced to be adopted in September of 1999 and that it does not meet the criteria that were to be secured on September 1st. That's not minimum for us. For us, the minimum implementation of the Madrid Declaration is. You don't have to explain to the coalition. The Social Democratic Party has a clear political concept, its programme. Who will be in this programme is European integration. It is an interest for Yugoslavia, a neighbouring country to overcome the current and economic and political stagnation that the regime has led to, precisely which you are now calling for us to save. Look how complex this policy is and what political blindness needs today to be advocated here when the entire Yugoslavia and the democratic public of Yugoslavia rise up against the regime, aiding the regime from this parliamentary assembly. Let me, please, it can't get into the program. We're against it, Špirić, against it. Every man, every politically engaged man who fights for the interests of BiH, for the interests of the Serb people, the Bosniak people, the Croatian people, well, now that you mention the topic, and for the interests of neighbouring Yugoslavia, should be against it. We're proud of it, and you can make it public. And one more thing, most RS citizens are against it. You stop suggesting that it is the interest of the citizens of the RS not to arrest war crimes. BiH has rightly done as far as Mr Talić is concerned. The citizen Talić is a war crimes suspect and what is wrong with judging a man suspected of war crimes and who is the assumption that someone is trying to bring the individual's responsibility to collective responsibility. The Social Democratic Party does not allow anyone here to speak for the Serb people, neither in the name of the Croatian people nor in the name of the Bosniak people. You have no right to identify individual responsibility with collective responsibility, especially with Talić. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, I returned from Banja Luka, and I saw the mood. Along with a group of people gathered around some minor political structures, other people want to join Europe, do not want to go back into the past and do not want to go to what Slobodan Milošević's policies have led you to. We are against this policy being followed, and in this Parliament we are ready to say it openly. And as for the program, we're against a tight program. We're for the program. Never mind [[incursion by the chairman: expires five minutes]] , which will ensure that BiH enters the Council of Europe. [[attack: it has to do]] When I say it doesn't matter, Chairman, I'm saying, in that context, it doesn't matter whether you like the discussion of an individual here or not, you should basically interrupt every five minutes, and you didn't do it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2070	It didn't last much longer. I'm asking you to watch the clock. Now we have a replica on the line. Please, in line with the replica of Tokic's replica, Rađević, Balta pa Špirić pa Deretić goes. I know how the replicas applied to the replicas, and you do what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2071	I only mentioned Milošević. This is where Milošević doesn't sit. The Rules of Procedure clearly state when it can be replicated, when a name is mentioned. Mrs. Balta and the other gentlemen representing Milošević, then she can.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2072	The Lords have the right to false allegations. /Pollemics.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2073	He's talking right now. I, as president of the Parliament Club of the Syllabic Coalition, am looking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2074	After the replica. I beg the MPs, yes, I didn't take a break, I'll give it...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2075	Mr. Chairman, this has become a joke and those who take care of other peoples lead this people away. I'll get out when you give me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2076	I'll give you my word and I beg you, I'll take a break – how much did you ask for a break? You didn't ask, how long was that? After the replica, 10 minutes will be a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2077	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the behavior and delusion that the citizens want, Bosnia and Herzegovina, to which my colleague, MP Mr. Tokić, is called, was the most difficult thing for those citizens. Tokić forgets that he entered this Parliament thanks to those he lied to, who today cannot be there or here, not wanting to explain to them what his real power is when he leads them into the sun. Therefore, to refer here to some universal formulas, Mr. Tokić, your story has sobered the Srbin into RS, not my program and my party's program. Therefore, just as you do not have the right, the BiH you advocate is not a Danton BiH and there is no way, I assure you, and I think you should stop harassing the citizens you are calling on. The establishment of parliamentary co-operation with neighbours does not mean saving the regime, Mr Tokić, but means saving relations within Bosnia and Herzegovina and the prosperity of BiH. Getting your hair on your head when you mention one of the Serbian representatives is simply not good for you. I don't like a lot of things in some parties, relationships, individuals either, but I just don't want to live with hate, because she's choking on a man who hates. You can't hide your hate. And that's why it's good to talk about the CD coalition, the Social Democrats coalition that you're calling for not being able to announce. There's no difference in your program. I must tell you that the Srbin have recognized your malice here. The Srbin are being punished by your policy, Mr. Tokić, which you took to the Drvar so now they can't go there or here. And that's 87 citizens of BiH, but also RS. So it's not about saving the regime, it's about establishing good neighbourly relations. But you must make it clear that you want BiH to be a desert island that wants to co-operate with it friendly countries Turkey, Malezi and I don't know which other countries, and you don't want to co-operate with Yugoslavia and Croatia. Maybe what's going on in BiH doesn't like our neighbors. And what does that mean? Either we live in an amicable environment, or we're still going to ask for the help of an international representative whose cutlery you, the Social Democrats, are skillfully attached to, and that's the only thing that binds you to that program, unfortunately. And when it comes to honesty in BiH, crime in BiH, then all parties must be placed in the same plane. Who is it from an international donation, which party paid the tax to their country? It's not called crime, it's co-operation. So I ask you not to call, I think I have more right to call upon the people I belong to, I have rights more, as you do. Of course not, I am a representative of the Serb people in the joint bodies under the electoral law, representatives of the RS in the joint bodies. [[STAMMERING]] I'm sorry you think there should be more Bošnjak, but there isn't. What can I do with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2078	Now I'm giving the 10 minutes break requested by the Syllabic Coalition and 20 minutes to the Kolegijum to take a break. Half an hour. Half an hour in total. At half-four here. Pause After break Dear MPs and guests, we suggest we continue our work. I would ask you in the name of the College to stop these replicas that, if possible, lead to nothing. They lead us to sharpen the situation and to move further and further away from what's called the Work Programme Proposal. There's now more to it than the Work Programme. If possible, I have no right to deny it to you, nor will I do so, but I ask you to accept the suggestion of the Kolegijum and give up your replica. If there's a need for another person to replicate, then someone to go outside the MPs' club and make a conclusion. But I ask you for one, let me say, a dignified level in addressing each other. I think that's okay, to avoid insulting any kind and by any means necessary. That's what I'm asking all the MPs. Of course, I don't see any reason why our emotions work so much. If you agree that on behalf of the club – first I ask you to give up any further replicas and move on to regular discussions and work on the work programme, if possible. If not possible, I have another proposal, that on behalf of the MPs' club – here is a replication – and that is to conclude – here is the resignation, one giving up. Does anyone else have a wish? I will ask in order, Genjac quits, Neimarlija does not give up, Rađević quits, Balta quits, Deretić quits, Tokić quits. Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija, please. Thank you very much, and once again, I think that...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2080	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would be happy to accept the suggestion of the chairman and to give up the replica, however, just the call of the chairman to be dignified in the debates that are taking place in this House, I am obliged, however, to remain in this need to replicate not on the content, I will leave the content aside, but in a manner of holding a debate, i.e. in a language or style, if you will, which some MPs use. The dignity of the debate is not guaranteed, of course, by the subject of what is being discussed but by the way in which the debate is conducted. Those of us who are here, we are expected to be able to discuss all issues with dignity. The dignity of the debate, of course, collapses in a way, not by a question involved in the debate, and I, therefore, call on the chairman, for the sake of this very suggestion, to in the future interrupt any MP who destroys the dignity of this House and the dignity of the debate, and I repeat, I hold that there are no questions that we cannot properly and with dignity discuss here. So, to interrupt any MP who uses inappropriate expressions that are characterized either by MPs or by this House. A copy is an expression that characterizes the papers that stand, not people. Last time I reacted to figures such as trainers and animals because the first figure referred to representatives of the international community and the second to the citizens of BiH and representatives of this Parliament. One of the MPs at the previous part of this session made claims that were offensive to all MPs, or a large part of the MPs, let me say, from the Bosniak people. The chairman didn't react. Because of what he just said, I expect him to in future not allow the use of absolutely unacceptable words and characterizations that bring down the dignity of the debate in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2081	Thank you. I absolutely accept the proposal from the MPs and I think, gentlemen, however, we're going to have to tie the discussions to the agenda point and I don't think it was okay today either, and the style was in a number of discussions inappropriate. I suggest we continue the debate. Dokić. poslanik Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2082	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this second or third part of this session will be more successful and I would ask those who want us to do something constructive, to abide by it. In this light, I will give up some of my remarks on the discussions of certain MPs, which are, at the very least, inappropriate, and in which some incorrect claims have been made. I have to start with some statements that were made here. And I also think that we should have this program not until September 1st but January 1st, but we didn't. Does it mean that we're not supposed to be here right now or that we're disbanding? If that's what it's supposed to be, let's do it. I am responsibly telling you that last night, the team sitting here for five hours was very responsible, according to the situation in BiH, according to the peoples and according to our obligations, discussed, discussed, respected and brought the paper you had today at the beginning of this session. What I did last night, I have to look back on what I warned, unfortunately, it came true. And last night, I said, let 89 of my colleagues deny me if it isn't true – fellow presidents of the parliamentary clubs, if tomorrow what we agreed on by consensus you can't get through to your MPs, then resign. I hope that your colleagues will honor it, and your MPs, the party leaders that are here, please send those people who will respect it in future. I think it's a minimum we can't go under. Otherwise, our preparation meetings are a farce, a waste of time. I can only interpret this behavior by the fact that this pay phone is being misused, and that's someone else long ago pointed out, this is not my patent, that this speaker is being abused for various political promotions. If that's true, here, I will now join a non-democracy proposal to abolish direct TV transmissions. I repeat again, last night's discussion where we had people from all parties that looked like a discussion of people from a normal country, a European, a civilization. This day, I'm not going to say what it looks like to me, you judge for yourself and tell yourself what it looks like. The fact, you see, how different we look at the same things, really, I can't understand. The fact that Karl Bildt, or some other Karl Bildt, doesn't matter to us, doesn't run a college, it's a sign to me that we did something. The fact is that last night, a representative of the Office of the High Representative went away earlier not to say that this was what we had today, but I believe that he can confirm that he attended a constructive settlement yesterday, and here he is sitting, so he can either confirm it or deny me, I won't be angry. So, what's this about? In these proposals made here, there are 15 laws, or proposals for the adoption of 15 laws, which we need to adopt in just a hundred days. I want to remind you once again that in three years' time, we have not adopted, but been adopted in BiH, or prescribed, only 15 laws. We now propose 15 in a hundred days. Under these 15 laws, all the requirements of the international community have been respected, starting with the conditions for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. All the demands are covered, and even, as we were tolerant and respected all the suggestions, the fact that under number 16, I have to read it to you. The legal initiatives include meeting other conditions set by the Council of Europe in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions by the end of 1999 for BiH's entry into the Council of Europe. Therefore, giving lessons here that we have not respected certain basic things for admission to the Council of Europe is really not right. It's a mild expression, it's not okay. I responsibly claim, and, behold, I have a document, whoever wants to look at it, and I suggest that it be copied that the Council of Europe sets as a condition that BiH, this Assembly, adopts three laws and these are the three at the beginning. The rest is taxed. You see, it says, the Federation of BiH, RS, the Federation of BiH and RS, etc. etc. There are many conditions that Bosnia and Herzegovina should meet, but what is required of this Council here, of this Assembly, this is what's brought here. But we've left an opportunity, as you can see, if there's any other suggestions that we can put on that as well. Are we really so irresponsible to ourselves if we claim that by the end of this year we can go through a complete democratic procedure, twenty or a few dozen laws. You see how much we adopt the agenda around which all parties have agreed, and what happens when the specific laws come into play. Come on, let's be responsible for ourselves so let's say, let's say, let's make this a minimum, let's try it, let's accept it, and that's why there's a proposal for this body that was ambushed last night so it's said, let's be sessions every other week of the month. We will not tie up how many days of 90, but we will open a procedure if the Assembly is to be in a permanent session, but to honor what we have agreed. Furthermore, much bid, much abuse of the request of the Madrid Conference. This turns out to be one against the Madrid Declaration and the other against. I'm telling you, the chairman read the request on request last night. Now I have to tell you that I'm pleasantly surprised how much of it has already been realized, how much is in the procedure and that a lot of it has already been covered here. There are some things that aren't covered, but that's why it's said, I just don't know what point, but at the September session we're looking for a realisation report. We're fundamentally different, gentlemen. The Madrid Declaration did not make any demands to this Assembly alone. There are some other congregations that have made demands, and that's what we're different about. At our session, we can also analyse those requirements that the RS Assembly and the Federation of BiH Assembly had to implement, and we agreed on that last night. I am, indeed, asking the question of what the fellow presidents of the parliamentary clubs were doing until 11 o'clock, or if they really did, then it's a sign that we don't need you to come to our colleges anymore. Once again, what you have here is not just a proposal to the Kolegijum and a consensus adopted by three people sitting in the College, there were 12 people, MPs from this assembly, representatives of all parties. So there's a tendency here to prove that there's nothing we can do. I responsibly claim that there are tendencies, and these tendencies are wrapped in another cellophane. On the other hand, the chairman said no parliamentary initiative was rejected in advance but was put into practice. And if it turns out to be in the congregation's jurisdiction, the one we're doing today, they'll come up on the agenda. It turns out, according to many, that on the 31st day of judgment, the last day, and what is not realized, is no more. That's not true. Under this Programme, there is also a point that is foreseen at the end of December: the adoption of the Work Programme for 2000. I appeal to you, and I pray, as colleagues, to show responsibility to all our peoples and to accept this. And that is why I remind my colleague, Vita Rakić, once again, that this is being voted on, and, if this is not enough, by the end of this year, that we are discussing Members' initiatives individually. I don't know which way it's going to jeopardize anyone's position or anyone's proposal. By adopting this and implementing these three laws, I am responsible for telling you that we meet the requirements of this House, not BiH as a whole, to meet the requirements of the Council of Europe for Reception. Since we were told yesterday that two of these three laws, except for the Law of Elections, have already been prepared. So, in September, apart from the Election Law, we can have met the conditions, and one of the conditions is the Work Programme and in the first place, says the Work Programme, the Annual Work Programme. Today, if we accept it, even if it's a piece of dirt, we meet that condition. So, who cares about meeting the conditions for the Council of Europe, he should push, even if it's the back of the Programme to adopt, and it's not the back of the Programme. I'm really looking at things, and I'm convinced that we can't even realize this. Let's do two-thirds, that'll be great, and we'll be a Parliament with a record number of passed laws, and there are other things. So, I ask the Presidency to put this proposal to the vote, with a note, you see, something has been revised by those initial proposals to the Kolegijum, but some MPs' initiatives have been adopted. You can see that well. So, 91 yesterday was a constructive discussion with an attempt to come here and make in an hour some of the things that Europe is asking of us. And you will allow me at the end of one remark which, however, I must say. There have been many calls for various regimes, calls for various regimes and inappropriate quotes by our neighbours. I may be boring, but I will repeat again: Bosnia and Herzegovina will be as long and as long as it will establish good co-operation with its neighbours, which is the Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I'm not going to talk about any regimes now, but at least it's inappropriate to talk about SR Yugoslavia in the context of multiethnicity. I would like to remind you that this was the only country created in the premises of the former Yugoslavia which is essentially multiethnic. We know the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 40% of the population of SR Yugoslavia are not Srbin and Crnogorac. The Constitution says it's a civil country. This is your data, gentlemen, from the April 1998 UNHCR prepared for a regional international conference on refugees held at the end of May in Banja Luka. According to these data, in Yugoslavia, there were 533,400 refugees last year, added to the footnote, and this should be added to this, it says nicely: 50,000 to 60,000 refugees from the eastern Slavonia area. You'd have to keep this in mind when you're talking about one of our very important neighbors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2083	Thank you very much, Ambassador. The word has an MP named Jahić. I'm asking Branko to just make those remarks, are they listed there?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2084	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't hold any political-party words. I think there's been too many so far. I'd like to ask one question here, first of all, the chairman of this House and the chairman of the College. In fact, I am interested in what criteria has the classification of the law, whose adoption is foreseen by the Madrid Declaration and the Forum for Accession in the Council of Europe? In fact, if we analyze the laws mentioned in this version of the proposal for a work programme that has been submitted to us a little bit more, we will see that some laws are mentioned by name and last name, while some other laws are classified as an abstract, foggy category which is listed here as the initiatives of the Members, i.e. delegates. The chairman said that after the debate on information, on the implementation of the list of conditions for BiH's accession to the Council of Europe, and the debate on information on the implementation of the requirements of the Madrid Declaration, it can only determine which laws further need to be integrated into the Work Programme, which is to be discussed in this House. I think it is illogical given the fact that a number of draft laws imposed by the Madrid Declaration have already been given in this proposal. This again comes down to the same initial dilemma, which is what, in fact, the criterion conditioned that certain laws should be mentioned by name and last name in the Work Programme, and certain laws are still being treated in the form of some prelaws or some initiatives that are yet to be seen in the House. Of course, the logical answer that comes to me is that there wasn't enough political will to put some of the bill's proposals into this Work Programme and I think 92 is the essence here that we don't have to run from at all. I am just asking one fundamental 7/2 question, and that is, if there was not enough political will to include fundamental laws in this Programme, how realistic it is to expect to be a political will for the eventual adoption of these laws if they come to debate in this House, that is, this House. I think it's good that, as someone said, it would be good for the public of our home to very clearly distinguish who is for the adoption of the Labour Programme of the House of Representatives and who is not. I think it is very important to vote here and ultimately have a clear idea of who is for the Work Programme, which implies exactly the implementation of the law, which is imposed by the Madrid Declaration and the realisation of those conditions needed for BiH to become a member of the Council of Europe. I think it's because of the public, because this whole debate is very important. Of course, clean business intervention, which is that it is not possible to vote first on what is yet to be referred to as some consensus proposal for the programme, but, above all, it is necessary to approach the vote on those important, essential additions to this Programme proposed by the MPs of the Coalition for a Full and Democratic BiH. If we are already talking about some synthesis of diverse political interests here then I think we can all agree on one that this proposal, which is in writing to us, really represents some, so to speak, minimum, but I would say that this is below every minimum and MPs of the CD coalition will not propose such an option. I have, conditionally speaking, some maximum that implies that under the name and last name all and earlier legal initiatives that were, or that everything that was in the previous procedure should be put into this Work Programme, that it should be precisely taxed, explicitly, mentioned here. I think that between the two conditions, I say again, extremes, a measure should be taken, and the measure, therefore, is, by my deep conviction, a clear mention of all those legal acts that Madrid implies and which entails a platform for admission to the Council of Europe. We listed here seven, let's say, the law, including these 6 that Mr Spahić mentioned in the first discussion and, of course, the Law establishing BiH-level judicial institutions, which is also foreseen by the declarations and acts mentioned. I think that one measure is what can satisfy everyone here, and each of the MPs has the right, of course, when the law comes into the process and when we plead to express our political position on them and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2085	I would ask the MP to stay and let us clear a few things up, since he's asked questions that are absolutely fine. First of all, when it comes to voting, you refer to the Rules of Procedure. Please specify a member of the Rules of Procedure by which what you have said is not possible. I ask you to deliver it to me – where is the violation of the Rules of Procedure if it is voted the way Mr. Rakić asked for it, or Dokić. Please quote me a member, I will be very happy to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2086	I'm not obliged to any request to quote any part... 93
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2087	But I am responsible for saying that there is no such thing in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2088	...but what I know and what meterator colleagues in this sphere clearly point to is that, I suppose, if the proposal is concerned, the first vote on the proposals of certain amendments, and only then on some integral material, i.e. integrated law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2089	Watch out. This Rules of Procedure, as it were, has not been established. I've got it here, I can lend it to you, but I'm calling every MP, if we're going to say it, he's obliged to explain his proposal. So I'm looking for an explanation for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure. Second, let me just say, when you asked what we were doing, , this is very important and I think it is good and it is good to clarify because in the end here we have an elaborate plan of activities that the BiH MIP delivered on 11 May this year about the order of the action plan, which is a condition for entry into the Council of Europe. [[attack: I think it's important]] Under number one, it's been adopted The Annual Work Programme, (Polemika) I apologize to the MPs, I must, man asked me I apologize to the MPs, but the man has the right to ask. [[attack: I'm really interested in that]] There's a document from May 11th, so we took a taxi last night, from dot to dot. Now, considering, I just want to add, I invite you to the document, and here is the accompanying letter, given that there has been an observation that it is not that there is anything else, then, in my opinion, we agreed very well and said: the fulfilment of all other conditions set by the Council of Europe as a condition for BiH's admission to the Council of Europe. So we removed the possibility that anything that would eventually appear as a condition would necessarily have to be done. That's it. The third question was, I apologize, if you can help me. I think that's it and thank you very much. [[attack: two are these key things]] Since it's gone, there's one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2090	Ladies and gentlemen of the chairman, I'd like to draw your attention to the conclusion before we interrupt the session last time, this House of Representatives. The conclusion was that the text as we accepted with all proposals and suggestions from MPs and MPs' clubs was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers and directed to the BiH Presidency, to get a response from them and to this session for 7 days to the College to be obliged to inform us of these views if they have them in relation to our Programme. That's the first thing. So we didn't get that. There is no response from the BiH Council of Ministers on the table and there is no response from the BiH presidency, at least not in writing. That's the first thing. At that time, the College was required, a magnetogram could be looked at, to consult and coordinate because it is one of 94 important things between the joint institutions, i.e. the state institutions of BiH. The only person who responded, which also belongs, undermining the General Peace Agreement and implementing peace in BiH, is High Representative, Mr Wolfgang Petritsch. In his text that we all got today, as well as last night, it's quite precise according to the program we offered him. I think we must take care of our Parliament's dignity. We offered him no, no minimum or maximum version, no modified versions, we offered the same offer to the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, the text of the programme that we discussed last time which was not brought in, in essence, to the individual question and to the conclusion that has obliged us to carry out consultations in these 7 days. Mr Petritsch, as gentlemen, to you, the College, and I hope that you have understood this well as a letter and that is why you have forwarded it to us, as members of Parliament, because basically all MPs, primarily, point out that it expresses the satisfaction that we will have in the next four months, which we have given priority to the laws of which the Madrid Conference requires. He does not refer to anything that does not exist, but something that you have signed, Mr Žigić and You personally, Mr Banjac, and welcomes the inclusion in the work, the work plan, the law of which is required by the Madrid Declaration. It is, therefore, so clear that I really don't see any dispute about it. There could have been people at that meeting, like we do today, on a variety of issues, but it's undeniable that this is official correspondence, as it is in a civilised consciousness. It is compared to the text we sent, and I don't know what we meant when we sent that text, that it will not be read, that there will be no answer, as there is no, from the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers, and then we will be able to repeat the whole process, the whole story. Another thing I would like to draw attention to, one law was interesting yesterday – the Framework Law on Restitution and then the discussion was open. That's the only thing we argued about in Mr. Petritsch's text. We said, well, that's not jurisdiction, it's entityal, some criteria that were imposed before considering this Programme, and when we took note that, in line with the care of the chairman's College and the members of the College of One and the other House, because we had a joint meeting, and we didn't say that today, it was said that the OHR Office correctly delivered this document, as it says in this text, to the Council of Ministers of BiH, and since it is a respected procedure, according to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that it goes through the Council of Ministers of BiH, we have, as you can see, classified it, and it stands in this proposal today. Anything else that says in this document, Mr. Petritsch, has not been disputed. The only thing he confirms in the last sentence is what I have been looking for for for so many months and what it seems, this Parliament is looking for a correct relationship between the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Parliament and the BiH Presidency, he says, although the task of both houses is difficult because of the fact that the BiH Council of Ministers has not previously adopted its work plan, I hope that in the next 7 days, both dom, we will make positive decisions and thus make our contribution to the BiH membership door to the Council of Europe. Why am I just reading this for two reasons? We today have the opportunity to adopt a plan that will oblige the Council of Ministers of BiH that we have been waiting for so many months, finally next week's announcement, whether we should continue the session next week, to see what they have recently asked us to include in the Programme, but today we should adopt the Programme. 95 That was the intention of last night's meeting. It was not the intention of last night's meeting to rule out these six laws as I put it immediately in response. I did not participate in a meeting of the Club of the CD coalition and I do not allow you or anyone else to assess how and in any way, which authority, Mr Dokić, acts on his MPs and how he has any conconsequences to bear. Yours was well-intentioned, indeed, yesterday's remark, but when she is pronounced here today for a pay phone, she becomes simply counterproductive from the point of view of the goal that you, in some ways, expressed last night and today. I think we should make sure, however, that we are talking, with full right, so we said, and the new initiatives that MPs can give, whether they participated, did not participate in the work of their clubs. So I'd like to be quite precise, we're determined so and I'm glad that the sekretarijat is as efficient, I point out, I have another approach, I really think Mr. Petritsch feels the same problem as we do. We need to form our services and give them a chance to work. But they did all the amendments to the Work Programme proposal, we agreed to present this Work Programme today, to try to adopt it, and then we said we wouldn't make it impossible for anyone to propose new initiatives, new proposals, with my intervention, immediately after the beginning, your words, Mr. Banjac, being followed, that I was absolutely right, that these six laws should not have been touched, because you said there was no consensus, but they couldn't get out of the paper you offered this morning. I saw the paper when you and I were sorry it happened. I think there's been one big misunderstanding, whether you've coordinated well with the Secretariat or not, whether you're responsible or the Secretariat, that's another thing, but the fact that we're nothing else yesterday, but said all of this remains, only not all of them agree on these few questions, exactly the six of them. But no one by any decision, you can multiply a hundred times the stenograms, you can't argue otherwise than I say, here, we all call on what happened. Mr. Bogić Bogićević spoke just before me today, and yesterday he specifically turned his attention and it has a magnetogram, said he was asking that the program as it is, the authentic one, the first one we had, remains entirely plus the SDP proposal. He said that to you as chairman both yesterday and this morning. I would ask you to protect the integrity of the MPs' performance, in this case Spahić and Bogićević, by protecting your authority and by confirming that we were right. It's been five, six or three hours, four hours since this session started, and don't waste any time, I suggest a statement on this program.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2091	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking for the record to be asked for a stenogram on this issue because I don't want to say again what everyone heard last night. Ms Filipović, MP - replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2092	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since we are constantly calling for all this to be done to enter the Council of Europe. I'd like us to make a good distinction between cause and consequence. All of what we are doing and what we are trying to do is make a legal state for the citizens of BiH. So we need a rule of law or, if you want, a rule of law, that's what we 96 do for ourselves and our citizens from whose side we're elected. And the property and respect for it will lead us to a situation where we have the right to become a member of the Council of Europe. That's what I wanted. That's the consequence, not the cause. We're doing this for ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2093	Thank you very much. Dokić, then Deretić. That's the order. Jahić, are you done? To whom do you replicate, I apologize? I'm really sorry, I didn't see, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2094	I can wait. It's not a problem. I won't forget what I'm about to say, there's no problem. I'd just ask, I have to admit that the Rules of Procedure, I don't know by heart, I don't even try to teach him, but today I heard it replicate when the name is mentioned. That's why I came out to replicate. If that's the case, then I ask others to respect it to replicate when the name is mentioned. Some replicas have turned into discussions. I don't mind opening up an opportunity to discuss as much as anyone will, but, come on, let's respect that. Ibri will answer why I, what I said last night, and now I'm understood again, because I simply can't understand that people who on their backs need to bear the burden of the fate of these people can be treated here in one way last night, and on the other hand, there is so much disrespect for their colleagues from their parties towards them. That's all I wanted to say. And it's standing, I'm undermining. I was extremely pleased with last night's work, although some of my colleagues warned me and said you'd see tomorrow, don't be mistaken, it's not math, politics isn't two equal four anymore. And by the time I got out, I once again wanted to underline, we were responsible for considering the letter of the High Representative. And when it comes to the Madrid Declaration, I remind you once again, we've been taking a stand and we've seen that a lot of things have entered into this proposal, and some things have to be realized by the entities, and we've said, we're also going to ask for a report on the realization already at the September conference. So why so much mistrust, why? I am asking the chairman now that this Programme, call it minimum or maximum, whatever it is you want, to put it to the vote, and then open the procedure by individual initiatives, to discuss and adopt. Let's do something today. I assure you, if we have this, we have a green light for Europe in some things, but that's not enough, I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2095	Now like this. Be careful, considering, I overlooked, and also Mr. Genjac, we didn't notice Deretić who was supposed to be right after Jahic's discussion to speak, giving him the championship, though And you get your word right away. [[Spahiæ's attacker and my name is mentioned]] It's a slip we haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2096	I, dear colleagues, will only say in one sentence what I think. Obviously there was, I suppose, a mistake when Mr. Jahić made a proposal that was not really in agreement. I'm very sorry that I insist on these formal things, but, well, I'm really trying not to say that Mr. Jahić didn't do it. In fact, we can't ask, now the amendment is being proposed, to vote first on the amendment to the programme. It can't be an amendment to the program. The amendment, in the legal theory, can only be on the legal basis, meaning the draft law, on the bill. In that context, I, Mr. President, intervened. I will, respecting what Mr. Dokić said and given what you said yesterday, what was done at the College, given that at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers it was requested that the programme we had be made known. They didn't do it today and, in that context, I think it's formal-legal looking, only right for this proposal to be put to the vote as it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2097	One brief intervention. The only one who responded is the Office of the High Representative. We believe if the BiH presidency did not answer anything that it does not want or has no objections. As far as the BiH Council of Ministers is concerned, the same is the case. They just didn't answer. Why aren't they here today, that's the question we're going to have to plead as the House of Representatives, what's going on with us? Furthermore, I responsibly argue that only here can the letter be disputed only if everything in the Madrid Declaration, which requires this letter, is included, and everything else is, I guarantee. And here's the letter, read it. But now, watch out, but that's why we said we'd run an analysis, see what was done that wasn't and right after that in September. Here you go. It's a letter here. You have it divided - read it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2098	I, of course, greatly respect that directness in referring to MPs in public, I could now say, Branko, I would like to convey it to you or, Mr Dokić, I would like to draw your attention to two facts. I will try, however, to keep what shows to be a normal civil structure and probably a good work grade that you're used to and our joint work in the Foreign Policy Commission, that kind of relationship between us, and I would like to say the following about it. I have nothing to replicate on yours, and I'm glad. I'd like to, and I think that's quite clear, and I'm glad you found a cause in my address that you too address Parliament. I don't find a reason to replicate to you, but I do find a cause, since you only mentioned my name, so that we wouldn't stay and lose that tradition in replicas. As far as Mr. Deretić's first intervention is concerned, I want to support him. He's absolutely right. Mr. Deretić is quite right. In my statement, I said precisely that I did not submit any amendments to the Work Programme proposal today, but I was very careful, if you listened to me carefully, I said that it was an integral part of the Programme, and now it is a gentleman (yes, I know, but I want to remind you that I am using your statement which is very good) that what I asked for is that it is considered a programme that was put on the discussion of the High Representative, the Presidency of BiH, the Council of 98 BiH Ministers and the word today, Mr Banjac, is now in this very little explanation which he also gave the confirmation of my position. If I carefully repeat what Mr. Banjac said, for argument's sake, it is the following: the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers have not responded for two reasons, or they agree with what we have proposed or have nothing against or have no reason, and if they were against, they would react. We didn't send this program that we got cut off today, but a whole program that includes these six laws. Of course, it wasn't an addition to the Restitution Act, we introduced it thanks to Mr. Petritsch's proposal and initiative. So, I underline, and the argument Mr. Deretić made today confirms my position. I haven't given any amendment. I asked for it to be treated as later suggested by Mr Bogićević. As for the order of events, the best confirmation is the position we heard from Mr Banjac, confirms that if the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers did not respond, they agree with the proposal we sent them. They may have some other reason, which is for Mr. Banjac and Collegija and Mr. Žigić and the College to establish. They must have correspondence or at least official contacts with the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, cannot burden us with the lack of that communication. At the end of yesterday's meeting, around 10 o'clock, we confirmed once again our interest in the whole program. To the intervention of Mr Bogićević that he remains the programme as he is, which we have offered because this is a interrupted session, there was absolute silence, no one responded to it. I don't know if we should have reached conclusions by consensus or voting. But I've considered it a confirmation of our attitude from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2099	I have to tell you again, there's no rules of procedure or mentioning the name, don't, we have to read the Rules of Procedure. So anyone who thinks she's caused a misunderstanding of someone's discussion has the right to report without mentioning their name. The name is only one of the conditions, in the first part, and in the second part, if someone's discussion has caused a misunderstanding, it has the right to react. (Polemics with Spahić) Don't do that, he has a right to name, here, point 5. Mr. Ivo Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2100	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your efforts, and our patience that, indeed, everyone wants to discuss and that the discussions give you within the Rules of Procedure, that people appear 1.2.3 times, etc., and I think it's time for us to take this debate slowly and I suggest that the debate comes down. I have no intention of taking over your role at all, so let me recap the debate, but we have three proposals here objectively. Three proposals we can't agree on, and that's obvious. There's a proposal that you offered this morning, which you claim to have agreed on last night. There is a proposal that implies that, plus a certain number of laws that the gentlemen here have read. And there is a third SDP proposal that is also very precise, which says everything that is in Madrid plus the additional requirements given to MPs, divided. I would ask you to try to make a statement within these three three 99 proposals, to vote and to conclude this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2101	Thank you very much. There's another debater reported, and that's the MP, Mr. Balta, you're giving up. I beg you, if possible, I see here that some things are summed up, I'm trying to find some compromise solution to bring this to an end. If you'll allow me to, however, resume the debate. There are suggestions here that are already contained in someone's proposals. There is. Here, I got it, I got it -- if you have this in front of you right now, so read it -- so, you should maybe take a break from -- wait, but how am I supposed to do it now, I can't just do it, to vote on the same conclusions. It's indisputable. We have a proposal that received a consensus last night. That's number one suggestion. We have another proposal that I consider to be, for example, Mr Spahić's proposal (a man comes out), but I have to ask him because he's unclear to me. He's proposing last night's plus-six bill. Last night plus six laws, completely, the first variant -- well, we'll put it to the vote. This is a supplement, if he agrees, I'll put it to a vote. Mr Spahić, I beg you, I must come by, you must help me bring this session to an honest end with you. So, Mr. Spahić agrees to make the proposal, the last proposal that was... Tell me, yes or no (Pollemics)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2102	Replica. I wasn't there, I didn't know it was Genjac or you, but, anyway, college. As far as I'm concerned, if you'll excuse me, I've been quite precise and you've confirmed it for me, and Mr. Deretić. We've sent the Program to consult. We got an answer from the High Representative. You explained why there is no reaction from the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. I consider it an integral part of the Programme and not my amendments. We got some other suggestions today. Yesterday we concluded, every MP who added some new proposals to make a statement. So, on my side, it's clean, I don't know what else you want.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2103	Whoever Bog you, Mr. Genjac, agree with a party colleague because I have problems.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2104	We're not party colleagues, we're in a coalition...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2105	I'm sorry. You didn't let me, I like it when you raise your hands, it's a sign to follow the work, but please, let me make a mistake so you can correct me - I'd like to come - Mr Spahić, do I have to go in the order I got from the Secretariat and don't argue with me. I'll give my word the moment I'm done. I guess you can listen to me. The first is the proposal, last night, which came to your table this morning, which was consensually accepted last night. That proposal goes separately to the vote. The second proposal by Mr Spahić, which I have defined as follows, this proposal plus 6 laws. Am I right? I didn't do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2106	Mr. Deretić showed you that's not the model. You're wrong. The old laws are the basis for a decision. This is a broken session, gentlemen. Continued session. When I'm done, he's asking you to take a break. It is agreed that the continuation of the session - the text given, originally given, is at consultations. We have a high representative's answer to that text. You interpreted why we have or do not have an answer from the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. Last night's meeting was only about things that are indisputable by some nature that won't have a big discussion, but that doesn't mean you could rule out what's the subject of our debate. This is the continuation of the session and the topic of our debate is the whole program offered by both colleagues last time. It can't be changed from opportunity to opportunity. The College can't change the same thing twice in one session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2107	Is your proposal a program that was offered last time?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2108	That's not my suggestion, that's your suggestion, sir. You suggested we discuss this program. I have respected your proposal from last session to continue plus Mr. Petritsch proposals and the other MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2109	Thank you very much, man, so, don't... Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a break from that moment. I'm asking the SDP Club, and that's fine, I have to bring this to an end and don't stop me. I know she's nervous, I know everyone wants to pass his proposal, and that's what's causing me, first of all, the problem. The SDP proposed last night's share plus its share that it delivered to the MPs. Is that true? And from the last plus -- to keep the program from last session with SDP proposals delivered today. Okay, I get it, Bogićević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2110	The Rules of Procedure clearly state who makes the College and what is the task of the College. Secondly, last night's new programme was not done, in order to facilitate Parliament's work today, we moved on to the content of the programme that came to the MPs for the previous session and reached a consensus with the draft laws and decisions where it could be reached. Mr. Chairman, both last night and this morning when he opened 101 sessions, he reiterated that nothing was rejected. (accurately) So we couldn't get a new program. Secondly, the program we got for the last session, you gentlemen, as the College, have suggested. The SDP political party did not propose the programme. You did it again last night, you did it downgraded, why? Third, we shared the SDP supplement last night, and it was said at last session, it's nothing new, and we're asking it to be classified as a complement to the program.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2111	Thank you very much, we understand. The break will be the moment it is. Wait, the man asked for a word and a break...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2112	My fellow MPs, I think we're really going into a groundless debate and we're not going back to what we concluded last time we split up. We were the last time we broke up, after such a heated discussion said everything that the College had proposed and what MPs had proposed going into equal procedure to agree in one procedure on the College and with representatives of political parties, i.e. with club presidents. That was the conclusion. Therefore, no one can say whether this Programme is valid and that Programme is valid when we have said both this Programme and all the proposals that have been made in the debate are equal. We all got the material in the meantime because we said we'd get it right after the session, according to each of the MPs' proposals, and we have this set of 50 laws. The college and our colleagues, club presidents, did what they did, and that's a proposal that was accepted by consensus. I don't see any reason not to put forward a proposal, what I suggested was accepted by consensus and we continue to supplement it. Let's accept what we have, let's vote what one party insists, one MP. What should be voted on, we also vote on and what we say will join the programme. Why are we making things so complicated now? Why are we looking for a break? I think we are wasting our time and going back to something, and we are not going to visit what we have concluded at the previous session, that is, the first part of this Parliament's session and what we have done in this period. So I insist on my proposal to start doing it that way, and I think it's the only way to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2113	Please, we need to define those proposals. The first proposal, I repeat again - the first proposal is the one now proposed by Mr. Rakić, which is the proposal you received on the table this morning. You did not suggest because it first came after the session last night and it is true that the purpose of the session was to do what Mr. Rakić said. That's right. We can listen to the tape and see if that's true. I'm putting the proposal you received on the table this morning, to vote. That's the proposal you got this morning. Who's in? I made one business mistake this moment, I apologize, first of all to you who voted, please establish the quorum before the vote. We're all a little tired and understand that. Please establish the quorum. 102 30 present. Please note that 30 are present. I'm asking who's up for the proposal. 11. The proposal did not receive the required majority and there is no need to go to vote on entities. Who's against it? Whoever is against this proposal, it's absolutely clear. Count it, please. 15. I'll hold the vote until the end. Four votes abstained from voting. I find that the four have abstained from voting. Any objections to the vote? There isn't. I find no one to object to the voting process. I find that the proposal for the programme under which we have pleaded has not been given the necessary majority of MPs' votes, and there is no need for it to go to vote on entities. There's no need. Insisting. The MP has the right to do that. No need, but if he insists, he can. There's no need, MP, for the Rules of Procedure to go to the second round -- only if it passes, it goes to the second round. We have a second proposal - Ibro Spahić - it's a program that was proposed last time plus six laws that - restitution and courts, total 8.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2114	Gentlemen, since the chairman was lost, I had to go out for a pay phone to ask for a break. This is about pure pranks. The chairman wanted to push a prank on us to vote on whether we were in favour of g. Petritsch's letter. I'm looking for a break. (Polemics)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2115	It can, it just can't be interrupted by the voting process. How much do you want to take a break? Break 10 minutes, 5 to 5. After the break. The break was requested by Parliament's Coalition of Syllabic because they thought Mr Spahić said a letter from the High Representative was being entered into the Work Programme.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2116	I didn't say that. It's impossible to find such a thing in a stenogram. I just said you need to take care of correspondence which is official and serious.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2117	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr Spahić's proposal reads: 103
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2118	If, indeed, it is as Mr Spahić says and if that is his honorable word, then I apologize for what I said to Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2119	Mr Spahić's proposal - I define the proposal and ask you to listen. Find proposals from SDP's MPs because there will be a link He's taking over some of your points and it's his right. [[The intruder - there's no connection, there's a connection in your head]] I mean, Mr. Tokić, yes, however, please adapt the dictionary to this House. Whether there's a connection in my head or in your head, I won't allow you a word. You can fight back, but you can't. The voting procedure has begun, and I can't give you my word. I'll dati it up after the vote's over. I'll dati you my word after the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman and MPs. We clearly defined our proposal and delivered it in writing. It doesn't matter, obviously, either by content or by motive with everything that's been going on at these sessions. It aims to implement all the conclusions of the Madrid Declaration and obligations to the Council of Europe. The chaos that has been created with various proposals, alleged alignments, is indeed not what the Social Democratic Party is proposing. The only thing I ask of you, as chairman, is that by not having a relationship with anything else that is said here, you give the proposal of the Scoial Democratic Party, which you received in writing, you get all the MPs and that everything else you think should be connected for later. Therefore, I would ask that without any, any merger, any separation, our legitimate motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2121	Does this mean, Mr. MP, that you are contesting the right of Ambassador Spahić to take over from your proposal points 2, 10, 10a and 10b, since they are mismarked - do you dispute his right?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2122	No, I don't. We do not challenge anyone in this assembly - this Assembly or in BiH to support our Programme, our concept, our proposal. We insist that it be accepted as a whole, but, of course, we also have understanding for those who will support it in stages. So Ibro on his way, and I think the rest of them will.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2123	Ibro, I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2124	What are you going to do? I have a right to a replica when he has a name. That's how you set it up. Don't keep changing. That's why we need a permanent Rules of Procedure, and it would be normal for us to work. I think it's a very important fact. I said my statement wasn't even intonated as an amendment statement, and that's where I supported Mr. Deretić. In this context, the proposal is very precise - a proposal to return to the Programme that this College has presented as the Programme for which consultations were sought. So that's the proposal of 31.8 and there's no splitting of that proposal. Since in the meantime we have received a concrete answer to our letter from our College, it mentions the Law on Restitution....
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2125	Thank you very much. It's no longer a replica of what Mr....
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2126	... Let me finish. As for Mr. Tokic, I think Mr. Tokić can tie and untie, it's an old custom for him and I really welcome all those suggestions, I said, quite normally, and I voted in favour of those proposals in the procedure. I find it unnatural that what we voted as Parliament is not in the programme. Therefore, I have no reason to vote twice for the same thing and so I ask that it be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2127	Mr Spahić's proposal: The proposal for a programme from 31.8.1999, which you received plus the Law on Restitution, plus the Law on the BiH Judicial Institutions and Point 10, on the first piece of the SDP proposal, 10a, because here it is by mistake 9, so we put 10a, on the other hand, 10 again, but we have now put 10b and debate on economic and social policy in the BiH institutions' responsibilities according to the initiative. Do you understand the proposal? Thank you very much. Who's up for this proposal? I'm really tired, I haven't informed you, 30 MPs are present. 12. Who's against it? 15 and 3 abstained from voting. I find the proposal has not been passed and there is no need for me to go to the entity vote. Any objections to the voting procedure? Please don't throw it away. We're voting on a third proposal. Proposal for a SDP Club MP. I'm reading the proposal. This is the proposal for a programme from 31.8.1999 plus to you today, and previously presented, a list of additional proposals from this Club of Representatives. It's about this list. Do you have any objection to what I said? You don't. Who's in? 17. 105 Who's against it? 10 abstention 3. The vote was 17 for, 10 against, and 3 abstained from voting. Given that the programme has received a supra-half majority, it goes into the second round of voting, entity voting. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 15. It has most of the MPs needed from the Federation of BiH. From Republika Srpska, who's in favour? 2. He doesn't have the necessary majority. The proposal goes to a match. It's a procedure. Let's move on. Okay, five-minute break. [[/After a break.]] There are 23 MPs present in the O.R., so what do we do? Please, the break is requested because there is a suspicion of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure did not exist and the club that requested a break is aware that it was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. That is only one reason for the sekretarijat, if not, to deliver to all MPs the Interim Rules of Procedure in order to have fewer problems. If delivered, the team better, then, I ask the MPs to read the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, we are now in place - the SDP MEP's proposal is going to be agreed on within the planned business deadline. Since, gentlemen, we don't have any proposals now that exist. I don't think it's necessary to declare our initiatives, I wouldn't reject them or vote on them, but I'll schedule a session within 7 days of the agreement. I schedule a meeting of the Coordination Commission Tuesday at 11 pm, because it is according to the Rules of Procedure for 3 days. The session will be held within 7 days after the alignment. You'll be informed of that. Is there any comment that we do not plead on these proposals and they have nothing to add? We don't have any suggestions that got most of them. Unless someone insists or wants to put their proposal to a vote, I can't stop them. The poslanik of Lagumdžija is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2129	Dear Mr. President, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would only ask that, if possible, we agree, and if not, we are obliged to draw attention to that. With the latest conclusion of the previous, or previous session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there is a obligation for the BiH Council of Ministers to establish the conditions for entry into the Council of Europe, implementation of the Madrid Declaration and the Stability Pact. That's what we adopted. If we had this for today's session, it would have been much simpler because many of the things we've had today would have been avoided. I only appeal, for a start, to appeal that we agree to commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare these documents for the first next session, so as not to re-emerge the next session, conditionally, in the way we have spent 106 today, unnecessarily for a long time. So I would ask, Mr. Chairman, no matter what the agreement is about, that it will be strengthened once again, if possible, by our conclusion from earlier and that we demand that this conclusion that we have had does not apply, so to speak, is not a principled conclusion, but that this conclusion that we are looking for for for the next session is prepared. That's what I'm saying for two reasons. Yes, from the Council of Ministers of BiH, in line with ours, I repeat, we had a conclusion that if it had been implemented, we would not have entered into what we entered into today. [[Adversity: from the Council of Ministers of BiH]] So, I suggest we just call on the BiH Council of Ministers to honour the conclusion that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has already adopted for the next session That's what I'm saying for two reasons: The first reason is because we have a rather tiring position of reconciliation and obligations that stand before us independently as the alignment ends. [[The President's incursion - agreed]] The second reason, I want you to realize, with a lot of respect, here, we're sitting on how much, but, please, at this point, at the end of the session, look here at these benches, here sits the Council of Ministers of BiH. Here sits the BiH Council of Ministers, in these empty benches. We are now finishing the session without having any members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, even any members who are members of this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and none of the deputies. Please, none of the deputies. About the members of the BiH presidency, I don't need to talk because they didn't, it wasn't even the custom to come here regardless of what we needed. Please note that at a session that ended no member of the BiH Council of Ministers, no deputy ministers sat here. And that's why I'm asking you to strengthen this conclusion of ours from last time with a deadline for next time. Today, though, we all made it through, all together, between drops of rain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2130	It's all written down. poslanik Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2131	I would ask that my proposal be made known here today so that the Commission, which should coordinate the proposal that has just received a certain majority, would be treated evenly in coordination.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2132	Amendments to the Work Programme Proposal under point 7, you have them with you, please... It's the implementation of these annexes, you see. Is there any need to read, since you have it in front of you? There's no need for me to read.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2133	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to avoid another trap. If we come forward now to declare amendments to the MPs, and we don't have a program we can call upon, we will enter into a situation of barren debate and we will not contribute to constructive work. So I'm asking you to go into the alignment phase, taking care of business initiatives. It loses the sense of this way of further work, 107 unless we want to tire each other out and exhaust without rejecting anyone's initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2134	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs and MPs, the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Work Programme has received the required majority, and has not received a credible majority from the entity. At this point, there is no need to declare amendments until the process of reconciliation is implemented. In that context, I think that the parliamentary procedure is to agree with what we would really like the whole process of harmonisation to go in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not to schedule it for Tuesday, but within three days, as foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2135	It's Tuesday, day three.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2136	Today is Friday - Saturday, Sunday and Monday (Polemika). Okay, I'm just saying we'd like to respect the Rules of Procedure. You have a commitment not to count Sundays, then there's no problem because it's not working days but regular days. We believe that this exhausted debate is on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2137	I have to ask MP Malkić what the aim of his request for a vote is, according to which programme he does this -- there is no proposal for a programme. Let him answer first, and then we shall give the word to Dokić, then Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2138	Since I understood just now what we voted on, and here it stands on this paper to stay with the program from last session with additions where certain amendments have been adopted. Why don't we just go through the program from last session and make a statement about my amendments to get in line?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2139	Mr. Ambassador, I was just about to let the MP and I conclude this. It says right here, change the program's proposal. You can have your program now - a proposal to formulate it by saying, I'm trying to help you now, that's a proposal of 31.8. plus your amendment, so we'll vote on it. Well, well, draft. Therefore, you must attach this to something.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2140	I'm joining the program from last session of 31.8.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2141	That wasn't your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2142	I'm looking now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2143	We heard what you're looking for. I give my word to Dokić and Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2144	On behalf of the MPs' Club of the Syllabic Coalition, I ask within 10 minutes for a full proposal to be delivered to us to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2145	Please, Secretariat, you've all got the following Work Programme, here it is, find it, it says: Sarajevo, August 1999. Do you have this, everyone, plus that's this list that you got on the table today and this one's going on a date. You've got it all on the table. There's no need to put this on the table again. (Polemics) Let me tell you, this is what an MP asked for, and I have to say. The apostle asked for what was going on. Here comes the proposal, the proposal, not the draft, and here's the proposal. (Polemics) Please deliver a copy of this Programme to Ambassador Dokić. Here, you have, here, here. Come on, take it. Before that, there is a word from MP Deretić, and I am asking the Assembly, given that the proposal of MP Tokić and MP Špirić are here to make clear whether we will adopt the amendments or not, and only then to adopt the amendments. Mr. Tokić, did I understand your suggestion? Yeah. I would like to put to the vote the proposal of Parliamentarian Tokić. Who's to plead today - excuse me, before that, quorum. 29 are present. What do you need a word for before the vote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2146	Mr. Chairman, I am asking nicely to ensure, in future, that you, as chairman, receive professional legal assistance in not only holding a session but really when putting forward a proposal when we should vote on certain drafts of laws, proposals and everything else that is under the Rules of Procedure in our jurisdiction. Why am I saying this? I won for today's session with a telex, according to this point, literally:...the review and adoption of the Labour Programme of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The beginning of this session was somewhere at 11 o'clock. You've properly informed us. I, unfortunately, was not present at that meeting last night for objective reasons. However, you have properly informed us of what is conditional, I will say, in agreement. Here, after ten hours or eight hours of work, we haven't, in fact, moved away from the beginning. We haven't taken a step since the beginning. This is where people take moves that cannot be taken on the basis of the existing Interim Rules of Procedure, and in that sense they handle with 109 terms that have no place here at all. In that sense, here, I'm going to make an example of it, and I've mentioned that a little while ago, what amendments to the work programme of 9-12 months. Please conclude this session, call the College or the extended College – allow me, please, when you have prepared this item of the agenda on which we can plead, call a session. We can't vote now on something that doesn't exist at all. The program, when you agree with it, deliver it to me and the other MPs so we can see what you've agreed on and open a discussion after which we can vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2147	What's the matter here?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2148	It's all slow. I don't know what's more, what the program does, and if it even exists, if it's a work version, if it's a draft, if it's a proposal, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2149	When I intervened half an hour ago and asked for a break before the motions for a vote were defined, I had in mind that all MPs were very, very tired and tired among them those who were steering this session. I may have used an inadequate word, which is why I apologize again, but this all shows how right I was. I am responsible for saying that what has now been delivered to me as a full programme is not a proposal from the SDP. The president of the SDP rejected this, among other things, and the claim that we received one college program for the session, and that another program came to the session. This goes beyond the seriousness of this House, and because of that, understand me however you want, I am no longer able to attend today's session. I am ashamed of those who have delegated me here to defend their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2150	poslanik Neimarlija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2151	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have come to terms with the SDP proposal. Some MPs were against, which is all-important, legitimately, the others were for, the third were, as I recall, restrained. These are the ways in which we make our proposals. A kolega, Dokić, who is one of the MPs, who is very well-adjusted here, so to speak, the problems, has now shown this last reaction that he himself is, in fact, in a situation attributed to the leadership of this Parliament and to us MPs. On my part, I absolutely reject and do not accept the way in which a single proposal disagrees to challenge the character, content and some previous background of the proposal. Whatever the proposal is, each of us has the right to be against it. The poslanik Dokić was against and the matter is done in this regard and therefore I express my disagreement with the way he characterised something that we have finished. Thank you. 110
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2152	Thank you very much. Please, you're not going to dictate to me what I'm going to do here. I repeat once again, the voting procedure is over and there's nothing to discuss. The program in that form -- it's true, you gentlemen, you've had the opportunity to have the program ahead of you, the proposal, the draft, and it's complemented by this list and it's going to be agreed upon. He's going to a meeting at 11:00 on Tuesday, the Commission is in session. Furthermore, Ambassador Malkić, I have invited you to come out and ask what you want with your amendment to join? In your proposal that has been submitted to me, and the debate has been concluded, it is not that your proposal makes a program of 31.8. plus your amendment, there is no, therefore, only amendments. On what amendment? Something that doesn't exist and it can't go to a vote, it can't go to a vote because there's no basis. So if your proposal here -- now we have to stick strictly to what's written here -- if your proposal was a 31.8. plus the amendments you've proposed, quite legitimately, it would get the character of the fourth proposal and it would go to the vote. Since the vote has been started and the debate is closed, I cannot allow you to supplement after the debate is concluded Your proposal. Please understand that. I can't allow it, I'm not rejecting your proposal, but it gets the character of all the other proposals after the alignment, and you can stay with these amendments, and you can bring in some others. This concludes the debate on this agenda. That's right. We're moving on to MPs' questions. Here you go. poslanik Deretić: Please submit questions to the Secretariat so that it may be Your proposal was adopted and entered there, there was no need since we had made a statement about it earlier, there was no need, your proposals were accepted. ... yes, to the BiH Council of Ministers - we have already sent this to the BiH Council of Ministers - no more need, Zlatko, forgive me, Mr Lagumžij, this has already been addressed and this has already been realised. [[Intruder of Lagumdzija: Comrade Banjac, have you declared my proposal?]] That's not controversial. It's an emergency. It doesn't have a character that we can vote on the emergency. There's no need. Thank you. Let's move on. Here you go, Deretić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2153	I have two questions. First question and two, two questions. First of all, I am interested, as MPs, in the BiH Borders Commission, where did it come from with the compensation procedure for Republika Srpska's territory up to 49% as set out in the Dayton Agreement? Two, can the supervisor for Brcko extend his responsibilities beyond the borders of the Brcko municipality under the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH and under b), does he therefore have the opportunity to lift the border line in the Brcko municipality? 111
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2154	Thank you. Send questions to the sekretarijat if they haven't written down to help them formulate. Any more parliamentary questions? poslanik Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2155	Mr. Chairman, since you were visiting SR Germany, together with Mr. Žigić, and since you are chairing our House, I ask you to present a visit report for the next session because we have received a call and that our Foreign Affairs Committee will also visit the Budenstaga Foreign Affairs Committee and I think that visit is scheduled for 29 and 30. Secondly, I would like to inform you that we have committed to having the upcoming meeting of the IPU, the OSCE, the CEI and the UN General Assembly on these key and important performances of our country, which includes BiH through Parliament. I also ask that the MIP, the BiH Presidency or the Council of Ministers, who is already in charge, along with delegations to travel to these meetings, show Parliament and say very briefly and in writing, via the Commission for Foreign Policy, what they are preparing and how they will perform there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2156	Thank you very much. In the stenogram there are, you will pass on the questions. Any more questions? Here you go. Ambassador Mrs Filipović
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2157	My parliamentary question is: Is the MIP doing anything to establish a visa-free regime for the countries signatories of the Stability Pact and is it working to facilitate obtaining a visa for the countries signatories of the Schengen Treaty? Our citizens are experiencing a terrible harassment of obtaining visas for any country.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2158	Thank you. poslanik Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2159	My question is: In what way do the joint BiH institutions think and intend to damage the citizens of Glamoc whose holdings have been built a military polygon, therefore, which are in an airless space, cannot return and have no place to move in? How is this category of population to be defiled for building a military polygon on their holdings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2160	Thank you very much. poslanik Genjac, vice chairman. 112
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2161	These days, the OSCE mission to BiH produced a poster whose content severely damaged the constitutional structure of the BiH Parliament. Namely, the poster reads that Srbin lawmakers are elected from the RS space, and BiH MPs and Hrvat are elected from the Federation of BiH. Since I belong to the Koalicija, more specifically to the party who has MPs and Bošnjak from RS, and since this is harshly affecting human rights, I think that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, as an MP, I demand that a letter be sent to the OSCE Mission for BiH with a request that the OSCE Mission explain the circumstances in which such a harsh mistake occurred. If it is a mistake, to explain the circumstances in which 60,000 such posters have been distributed and what sanctions have been taken against those who have made that mistake, if it is a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2162	Thank you very much. Ambassador, Mrs. Balta.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2163	My parliamentary question is: On the basis of a statement by BiH presidency member Mr. Alija Izetbegović, that no refugee will be expelled, or I don't know how to define, who is responsible, and who isn't, I want to know, what did he mean by that, is that in the spirit of the Dayton Agreement, is that in the spirit of the Madrid conference and what it means for those returnees who want to return to their place of residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-08-31-1.u2164	Thank you. Any more parliamentary questions? There isn't. I'm closing the 9th session and thank you very much. The session was completed at 6:00 p.m. KR A J.
