ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3787	In the session of the College that you supported, we agreed that the conditions for the 16th session, in the circumstances that we have already decided ourselves, we do not really have. In fact, we would only have 25 minutes of work, while the formal part of the 16th session is done, it would practically be 4 hours, and the representatives of the Bosniak people have their own religious obligations, i.e. iftar. So the deal was up to 16 hours ago. I don't think we have any conditions for starting a 16-session. So I congratulate you on the New Year's Eve and all the holidays you have and we'll schedule the session later with the agenda, probably 11.01. That's the conclusion of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3788	I support the chairman, but I also want to use the replica once on behalf of the Party of Democratic Progress, and on behalf of myself, I want to congratulate all BiH lawmakers and people on Christmas holidays, Bajram, New Year's holidays and Srbin have always been a priority, for them two new years. Thank you very much. I join wishes. A consultation after the 15th session on the appointment of the 16th session
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3790	Gentlemen, honored guests, 2 I am opening the 16th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, the meeting was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, co-chaired and vice-chaired by the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, Mr Drago Ljubičić, delegate to the House of Peoples of BiH, as proposing the draft election law, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Embassy's political department in BiH, and representatives of public information funds were invited at the meeting. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for having found both the time and the will to attend our session. Once again, gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, representatives of information funds, I wish a happy and successful year 2000. I want you and your families, a lot of personal happiness, prosperity, a better life in this millennium and this year. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there are 34 MPs, 21 from the Federation of BiH and 13 MPs from Republika Srpska. The session's absence announced: Ivo Mijačević and Ana Havel for health reasons, and Ljubomir Zovko for the official trip, Adnan Jahić also for the official road and Radenka Balta for the same reasons. Dear gentlemen, we have the necessary quorum for proper work and decision-making and I suggest we begin work. You've been invited to this session and given the agenda. This morning, we held a session of the Extended College with representatives of MPs' clubs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and MPs who do not have clubs and we agreed on the agenda you just received on your desks. 1. Granting consent to ratification of 17 agreements, as indicated; 2. Report by the Commission to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Law on the Border, State Service of BiH, on the conclusions of the Proposer, MP Nikola Špirić and Halid Genjac, on the examination of the Central Bank's response and on the granting of consent for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy 3. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for the period January-September 1999; 4. Draft Budget of the BiH institution and international commitments for BiH for 2000; 5. Draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations in 2000; 6. Report on the public debate and the submission of a proposal on drafts (a) Election Law, Proposer Drago Ljubičić and (b) Election Law, Proposer of the SDP Group; 7. Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 01.01 to 01.12.1999; 8. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat; 9. Draft Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 10. Proposal for a Law on Public Corrections of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel document BiH, MEPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković 3 12. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (a) Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, whose legislators are Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković b) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers, Proposed by MP Vita Rakić; 13. Law on the holidays and holidays of BiH (a) Proposal for a Law on the holidays of BiH, Proposed by MP Sejfudin Tokić and MP Ivo Divković, (b) Draft Law on the holidays and holidays of BiH, whose proposal is the BiH Presidency; 14. Draft law on the formation of BiH institutions; 15. Draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and 16. MPs' questions before I open a debate on the agenda, I would like to inform you of the following. Using this opportunity, to inform you that, in the context of BiH's accession procedure to the Council of Europe, between 17 January and 19 January this year, BiH will visit the Mr. Chairman of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers and Mr. Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. In addition to numerous meetings, distinguished guests expressed their desire to address the MPs and delegates of both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly during their stay in BiH. Dr Izet Žigić and I, as chairman of both homes, made a call to the gentlemen on 29 December last year, of course, with a letter inviting them to address the members of Parliament both at home on 18 January this year. They also accepted it on the 18th of this month, at 12:30 p.m., they will address MPs of the House of Representatives and delegates of the House of Peoples. This is for the sake of your knowledge and for the purpose of getting acquainted with the high delegation's visit. Now I'm opening a debate on the agenda proposal. I have three reports, MPs Špirić, Tokić and Bičakčić, three MPs have also signed up and MP Dokić, and now I have to write all this down so I don't forget.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3791	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I, of course, before and during the preparations for this meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's Representatives, received one, somewhat more extensive agenda, but here for the public of BiH, I want to show the agenda we were going to discuss today, and here are the points of the agenda that we have received and here to say, with forgiveness, which is long, long, and what is irrational, it is irrational and it is good that the College and parties that have and do not have parliamentary clubs have decided to make a more rational agenda, which, in essence, can be discussed and reached vital legal projects that are important for BiH. As regards the specific agenda agreed, I agree that it goes with this agenda with one amendment, of course, that the law under the regular number 14, that is the draft law on the establishment of the BiH Treasury, is removed from the agenda for the reasons that the Finance and Budget Commission has also made such a decision, because in this law, and I have it here, there is no constitutional basis for adoption, at least it does not say what constitutional basis it is for adoption, or the introduction of such a law in the debate, and I ask that until so long as there is no appeal to any member of the BiH Constitution, that we do not practice this practice, that we are discussing legal projects that are not in accordance with or are against the BiH Constitution. I don't want to discuss the essence of the law, maybe it's an ideal form and a good law project, but there's got to be four constitutional bases for this law to be discussed at all, at least as far as I'm concerned. I suggest that this point be removed from the agenda. The second thing, I propose two new points of the agenda, you know that we, at the 13th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, seem to have held a comprehensive debate on the number of passports and structures issued in BiH, on the number of naturalised Bosanac since '91. Until '99. in the year, that the BiH Council of Ministers was in charge and won, do you remember when we asked for a deadline that was sufficient for the BiH Council of Ministers to come up with such information, but most of them decided to submit such a report by 31.12.1999, today, 11 or 12, and no one thought to inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and I propose the item of the agenda: Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the number and structure of BiH passports issued in the period of '91. - '99. as well as the number of naturalised BiH citizens in the same period. Another thing I propose as a part of the agenda, which is that there is a debate on, I would say, one visit that is in BiH, at least in the part of BiH where I live, has caused a lot of controversy, a political storm and all that is not good for BiH, which I am convinced, for the process of building confidence, its inclusion in European and wider international integration, this is a visit by Mr Hašim Tači to the state and political leadership of BiH, specifically Mr Alija Izetbegović and Haris Silajdžić, and I suggest that this representative council draws a conclusion condemning Mr Izetbegović and Mr Silajdžić's procedure, because it does not contribute to stabilisation and is not in relation to the establishment of trust. A team before the level of human rights violations in Kosovo is so high that such visits and receptions represent direct support for Albanian terrorists for secession... from Serbia, which in no way should be BiH's official policy, at least while BiH is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3792	You'll have a chance to explain that when it does.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3793	Here's what I'm delivering to the Service as a conclusion and I'm asking the Council of Representatives to declare these proposals specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3794	Let the service formulate those points and deliver.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3795	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I would ask that a point be placed as the 16th item of the agenda: Information on issued passports and citizenships (as requested by the SDP), because you know that 5 of us have asked the 21st question and that I would not now explain every question, on travel documents and citizenships, and that it is classified as point 16 which is on the trail and this initiative, which Mr Špirić has just said. Given the fact that at an extended session of the College, we have learned that the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications has sent such information, I ask that it be included as a part of the agenda of this session. At the same time, I would like to rename Mr. Divković Ivo and myself, the Law on the holidays of BiH, the Proposed Law on the holidays of BiH, at the point of the agenda of the 13th draft, with the desire that this problem be opened as far as possible, from various aspects of the view, given the course of the debate that we also had at the session of the Constitutional Commission, the overall different views presented in the public, to open up the space of presentation of different views and in a certain way to agree with what the BiH Presidency also proposes a draft to be able to conduct a single debate, with the wish that this year should take place in a more responsible approach to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in which it can help us and the fact that this session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly conveys television, Studio 99, which is a particular indication of the problem, to so-called so-called Parliament Assembly of BiH. state services, television, one local television broadcasts this parliament, and I would wish all of us good luck in our work and desire to act more in the direction of the constituent peoples and all the citizens of BiH, wherever they live in this BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3796	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, regarding the agenda and the previous information of the chairman, I am using this opportunity for this high house, the BiH State's House of Representatives, to inform me that yesterday at a session of the Council of Europe's Political Committee in Paris a decision has been made to issue a full-fledged BiH reception at the April session of the Council of Europe. It's a very significant success. The Committee was attended by our colleague Dr. Mediha Filipović and such a decision were the result of a previous statement by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which, under the chairmanship of Mrs Jatermak, found sufficient progress in many issues in the constitution of the BiH state authorities and gave the green light for this decision. This decision is followed by the arrival of both BiH rapporteurs and Mr Blacer and Mrs Jatermak tomorrow, after which the BiH chairman-in-Office Committee of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ireland, who is the new chairman of the Council of Europe during this six-month period and the first visit by the new Secretary-General, Mr Šlimer, the prominent Austrian diplomat of BiH. In this sense, full mobility and preparation are needed, primarily the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, so this home, in order to provide all the necessary information and inform this high delegation of the results achieved here. In this context, I ask for your full participation and mobility so that this visit will go as expected and that the further procedure that the Bureau of the Council of Europe is now running uninterrupted, and that the most responsible people will address us here at the next session. I am taking this opportunity to point out the need for urgent action and this Parliament to the new behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in terms of denying certain pension insurance rights after the New Year, where our embassy in Zagreb is covered by such demands, and by refusing to pass on electricity to the Republic of Slovenia, where we have no opportunity to get a proper 6 response from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is almost possible to create a state of escape in one period of the handover of the authorities, nor can relations that have worked so far, and I ask Parliament to take all activities out of its jurisdiction to at least animate the public with these phenomena which are evident since 1 January 2000.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3797	Gentlemen, since I've been encouraged by Mr. Bičakčić's discussion, let's just say I'm not looking for a change of agenda. Don't ask for an update on the agenda. I was going to ask it in parliamentary questions. Since this is a very serious matter, I don't know how far you've met, pensioners who have won their pensions in Croatia before this unfortunate 1991 war have received so far, if they live in the Federation of BiH, their pensions from Croatia. If they live in RS, they didn't receive it. That is why I am asking, as an MP for this House, full information for the next session on such a procedure, with the names of responsible persons at the level of the BiH Council of Ministers, why such things have happened. Our citizens must all be the same. We live in the same state of BiH. Is that how it's supposed to work? How far does that go? Please, I'm not asking for a debate on this issue. For the next session, prepare detailed and complete information on this problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3798	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask that we all respect the Rules of Procedure and achieve the equality of all MPs. Your discussion, as well as Mr. Bičakčić's discussion, falls under agenda 16. Perhaps Mr. Bičakčić is thinking for another half hour to be in the session and leave, but I would ask you, if we open the agenda, all the issues that are coming up, so if you want both from the electricity and from the admission to the Council of Europe, from what we have from European flows, we have the price, the European electricity price, that's true, but let us stick to the agenda, to go constructively, the 16th point will come, and the electricity will come, and the Council of Europe will come, and this will come to all that is happening in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3800	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, Mr. Chairman, I ask you to protect me in terms of interpretation of what I intend to do. What I think, I don't think anyone in this room knows, but gentlemen give themselves the right to interpret my thoughts.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3801	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Tokić knows, because you've had close encounters, while he knows you'll leave. Please, just one piece of information. I remain at the express request not to affect the agenda, to obtain information.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3802	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I would like to start by saying that not everyone needs to be answered, because that answer is also past the Rules of Procedure, we will obviously impose many other questions, therefore, to respect what I just said. Last time it was concluded, it seems to me to be my request, that before the point of the parliamentary questions be the point of the agenda to answer the parliamentary questions, and that's what the Assembly has accepted, and I ask that it enter and now, means, if point 16 remains the poslanički questions, that it be 17. and that 16 is the answer to the parliamentary questions. Secondly, for the third time on behalf of the Foreign Policy Commission, I ask the Foreign Ministry to provide one full information on the completion of the DKP, on the criteria used in this case on the procedures in force and we have not received answers to these questions. Last time we asked for written information to be provided for this assembly, since there was no oral information, and on that occasion the Deputy Foreign Minister, who, here comes in right now, said that one such written information was made, but somewhere it was blocked. I ask, on behalf of the Commission, once again, for such information to be obtained and prepared during today's session, even if it is in raw form, so that the Commission can draw some conclusions, or suggest, to the Assembly. I support Mr. Tokić's proposals, and I think it is also Mr. Špirić's suggestion to put on the agenda a point through which 21 questions will be answered, I think it was, the SDP, which we said would be answered by the end of last year at the latest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3803	I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I would like to ask the College, since I did not attend an extended session of the College, which led the College to get out of the agenda proposal which included five draft laws submitted by Mr Silajdžić in the final form of this final draft agenda, given that these are laws that have been in the parliamentary procedure for several months, they have passed the entire parliamentary procedure, today they have been at the session of the Constitutional Commission. The fact is that the Constitutional Commission has not reached agreement on this, but unless the House of Representatives has an express request for review on the Constitutional Commission, I am not even sure it will be again. So the Constitutional Commission did its job. It is about draft laws on the Court of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, administrative disputes and the importance of public documents in BiH. As an MP, I propose that these draft laws, especially as regards draft laws, be included in the agenda of today's session, regardless of the possible explanation of the Colleges.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3804	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3805	Ladies and gentlemen, at last session of the House of Representatives, it was asked by the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers for information on BiH's participation in the implementation of 8 Declaration and its own parliament resolution in the Southeast European Stability Pact. This was not a parliamentary issue, but concerned the fact that BiH hosted the work table on security and related to the fact that no information was provided to the House of Representatives, nor was it explained, about the role of the working groups established by the BiH Presidency, the results of their activities in multilateral contacts with other countries of the Stability Pact, and I ask that the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers be formally included in the agenda of this session to inform us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3806	Form a dot and turn it over to the sekretarijat so we know what's going on. Thank you very much. Is there anyone else to talk about the agenda? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to define the proposal and answer some questions that are raised here as a dilemma. I think it's good that, gentlemen of honor, I beg your order and discipline. The issue of representatives of the Constitutional Commission, MP Kadić. Here were representatives of political parties, as members of the Expansive College, where we agreed on a final draft agenda, and it is a unanimous position not to take them off the agenda, because we are not going to discuss five laws, but to wait for an official opinion of the Constitutional Commission on this issue, that once again the Constitutional Commission should meet and consider five drafts of the law by the next session, and that we would then put it on. That was the reason, otherwise, there was no other reason and there was no different opinion, that's all. If, MP, you still insist that we vote on it, we will. We didn't want it without it, there's no attitude quite accurate and clear, and we're going to, as the Constitutional Commission, once again, tell me, because I'm one of the members of the Constitutional Commission. So you accept. I would further ask MP Tokić and MP Špirić, if possible, given that they are close in one proposal to formulate the agenda item together and whether they agree that this agenda point is: Information on issued passports and citizenship in the period of time than, can you do better, Špirić, I think you will agree. You want separated. I'm asking, I thought you'd get along, but if it doesn't, I'm just asking. Don't just be mad at me for asking.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3807	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, the conclusion of the House of Representatives when a request was made to the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver such information, was that the Council of Ministers had to, and then we agreed on a term, to provide information on the passports and citizenship issued, as requested by the SDP Parliament Club and there were 21 MPs. It is therefore that, de facto, we cannot rephrase the formulation and the responsibility that the House of Representatives has set for the Council of Ministers of BiH before several meetings, but I am merely stating exactly the information, and I do not think that it is a fundamental character, I am obviously talking about everything, I am speaking according to the SDP's Club's request, because it was the most complete list of all the questions we have asked for in this information to be delivered. I would like to ask Ambassador Tokić, speaking of determination, to agree, since what has been delivered here does not look like a language to me exactly to the end, I suggest, therefore, that, at point 16. Information on issued passports and citizenship, as requested by the SDP, from that and that month, if you remember from September, is so precise, that we know what it refers to. We need to determine, simply, a suggestion to know what we're going to do. Let's finish with the proposals of the Tokić MPs. That at point 13 below a) instead of a proposal, a draft, I think we're quite clear here. As for MP Špirić, he suggests a conclusion. I didn't get it, Mr. MP, here I have a proposal for a conclusion, so you're proposing a point of the agenda to draw conclusions on Mr. Hashim Tači's visit to BiH, so that's it? Why didn't you write it to me? You'd have denied me time. It's one of Mr. Špirić's proposals and the other one's... At what point of the agenda, Mr. Špirić? In addition, we'll see, after 16, well, thank you. Well, he can't since he took the 16th point, so don't worry, we'll make a deal. We have information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the number and structure of issued passports in BiH between 1991 and 1999, as well as on the number of naturalised citizens of BiH, the second point proposed by MP Špirić. Is it concrete? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3809	He's talking from the scene and there's no exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3810	Okay, thank you. I propose, MP Dokić, that a point of parliamentary question be read, MPs' questions and answers, and that it...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3811	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3812	Well, here, we'll work it out easy. There's no answer, so we'll figure it out soon.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3813	Last time we discussed it. They can only be answers to parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3814	So, answer it. Do you agree that this point is to answer parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions? Yes, it is. I know three languages very well and you can see that we agree. 10 Information on the completion of the DKPs and criteria as well as complete. We've been looking for written information, like the Kolegijum. We didn't get the material. The conclusion of this House is that no point for which there is no material is placed on the agenda and which is not delivered to the MPs within the parliamentary deadline. That's why, MP Dokić, why these dots are gone, and if you ask me personally, it won't be until it does. I will accept that this calls for the responsibility of the person to whom the memo is sent. That's the position of the Kolegijum and it's unanimous.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3815	My proposal would be something in the spirit of what the chairman said, in the future, and independent of what subject it is, if some questions are asked, if information is asked to respect what the chairman says about the next session of the Assembly. If it is not in the materials that it is not going, but if it does not come to the next session of the Assembly, then it is put on the agenda, whether it is material or not, so the beginning of the debate may be asked to question the responsibility of the one who was obliged to prepare it for the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3816	Thank you very much, MP. Please stay and suggest a conclusion to undo the earlier conclusion. The earlier conclusion is that there is nothing on the agenda that has not passed the business procedure and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are not respected deadlines for the delivery of material to Members, including, of course, everything we are discussing. So, I think you have the option now, since you haven't been satisfied with what you're looking for, that you're looking for an addition to the agenda, a vote of confidence, let's say, if that's your wish.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3817	I don't insist on a point of vote of confidence. I think that's pretentious. We need to look for information and find out why there's no information, and then we can eventually figure out who's answering and why it's responding.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3818	A stenogram will include MP Dokić's proposal for another one to urinate in seeking this response in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3819	What was the question referred to? The Council of Ministers of BiH or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Because you asked the BiH Council of Ministers, since it was not on the Council of Ministers of BiH, I gave you that explanation. I told you the Foreign Ministry prepared that material two or three months ago. It is located, but was not part of the BiH Council of Ministers' agenda. So he didn't even come to you. If you require the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliver that material that did not go through that procedure, you will get it immediately. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3820	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I thought you worked together at the Council of Ministers of BiH, so I thought so. Thank you very much. So that's what it's going to be when you meet on the agenda and we'll get the information and we'll put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3821	I think my proposal was quite clear. Not a proposal, but a request on behalf of the Commission for Foreign Policy, to deliver this information to us today at the first break. The Commission will then decide on what to do with it. Please, we heard that. That's not a draft agenda. We have another point proposed by Ambassador Ibrahim Spahić, if I read correctly. Information from the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers on BiH's engagement in the Regional and Work Tables of the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe. Are you okay with this? Here, we'll get the information, take it off the agenda, so we don't put it on now. For the next session. Do you agree? So you'll get information for the next session. Thank you very much. Now we've stayed to finally bring this to an end and have three additions to the agenda, so first we'll vote on the supplements, and then we'll vote on the agenda. Point 16 suggests that the addition of the agenda is that point 16 becomes point 17 and point 16 that the conclusion on Mr Hashim Tači's visit to BiH is reached. The proposer of this agenda is MP Špirić. How many in the O.R., please? - 34. If it is included, it will be delivered. So we need to deliver it in advance. What, then, are you looking for, MP?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3823	Speak from place and no exposure is heard
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3824	Mr. MP, we have a technical problem. I only have a proposal for a conclusion with me and we need to take a break to multiply it, and then it really comes to question whether MPs will accept, in accordance with the earlier conclusion, that we are discussing it. I don't, MP, I have to ask the man who suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3825	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think we should be doing this thing. I object first to Mr. Chairman for interrupting my reading of the conclusion, that's one thing. Another thing, we can make a circus out of anything, if that's what you want. BiH costs such debates and such visits, which I am convinced of. Therefore, whether for 7 days, if 15 days, it will not feed us here or the citizens of BiH. I'm asking you to put 12 on the agenda, put it on the agenda. If most people pass, it's a good message in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3826	Thank you very much, MP, we understand what you're saying. I ask the MPs, before making a statement, if you would like to see the text of the conclusion. Who's up for it, who wants to see the text of the conclusion before deciding? A break of 10 minutes to multiply. [[PAUZA]] Gentlemen, please take your seats, to continue our work, we have 26 MPs in the O.R., we can continue our work. You've reached your conclusion. We have two suggestions here. One to vote, the other, that since this conclusion has not been delivered in accordance with the deadline set before, it should be postponed for the next session, so that it can wait for the procedure. I am personally in favour of this second approach, not to vote now, because we are violating what we have brought before. There's a split opinion in the College, let me put it this way. Some people think they should vote right away. I personally think we should go through procedure, respect what we agreed. Do you, MP Špirić, accept one suggestion or another? Thank you very much. My conclusion has been accepted. I'm taking off and leaving for the next session, and that's what you got. I propose, gentlemen, since I have now contacted the Secretariat, with a number of members of the Secretariat, we have a conclusion of the Assembly on information with issued passports and citizenships and I suggest that we do not again violate what we have brought, that the point is called the Information Council of Ministers on issued passports and citizenship. Did I please MP Špirić and Tokić? Yeah. Thank you very much. The material's gone. Can you hear me, gentlemen? The material's gone. The BiH Council of Ministers did not deliver the material. I suggest the next compromise proposal. To include this point as a proposal for the next assembly, provided that today it is still Urged to obtain material under emergency from the Council of Ministers of BiH. Let's not put anything back on, but we'll have it today. I'd like the Secretariat to make an emergency... Are you in? Yes, it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3828	I think it is a better conclusion, since we know that the Council of Ministers of BiH did not make up material for today's information, that today we conclude that the Council of Ministers of BiH does not adhere to the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and that the Representative Council insists that at the next session it be the first item of the agenda, to take the situation seriously. This is how it's going to happen with all kinds of machinations. If there's no material, it's not the same, and it's just there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3829	I propose that this comment be entered into the contents of the text and that in today's text which will be addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH we insist that it be the first point at the next session. Please let the Secretariat write this down as a conclusion. It has the first a) pa b). There was a proposal, too, that item 14 should be left out of the agenda, because the Budget Commission did not give its consent, and we said we were asking for the Commission's opinion, which is also one of our conclusions. What number of MPs are present? - 32. I ask the MPs, who's in favor of point 14. The draft law on the formation of the BiH institutions is being removed from the agenda. - Who's against it? - The abstentions are 20.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3830	Please, let us speak individually of the points of the agenda. This is a trap that is... if the President of the Constitutional Commission says he votes, because there is no constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3831	Please, gentlemen, I've had the vote, and what...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3832	Please, and good things can be misread. Yesterday, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission discussed, among other things, this law. Since the text of the Law did not give us a reason for the Law, nor did the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law appear anywhere, the Constitutional Commission has asked the Council of Ministers of BiH to declare itself constitutionally based within 24 hours, i.e. to give an explanation for this law. Since we didn't get it until today, for these principled reasons, I voted for this not to go to today's session, but I didn't say there was no constitutional basis for this law. We haven't even got it yet, so we couldn't even make a statement about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3833	Rasim, we waited this morning for the Commission to get the materials. She didn't get them. We had an extended college this morning, gentlemen. If you're asking that question to the College, ask yourself who you were sitting there. Here you go, Mr. Tokić, but it's not too late to postpone it for the next session, to get what's required. Why would it be too late? There is no basis, because the Constitutional Legal Affairs Commission, once we say, is asking for the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission when it comes to the laws of one legislator, and the other does not ask for it, is not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3834	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, I just wanted to underline it. We have a conclusion on how to come to the agenda of the Parliamentary 14th Assembly of BiH. I'm really only reporting with the desire to have a unique, equal access to all the legal projects. We had just discussed the laws proposed by MP Silajdžić because there is no necessary opinion from the Constitutional Commission. I had no information that the Constitutional Commission, not at this morning's session, did not agree to this, but at its standing point of view, the College is required in its proposal to present the House of Representatives to formulate that draft agenda which has passed all the necessary procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the special conclusion of the House of Representative, published in the Official Journal, I do not know by far the number, but you know what conclusion I am talking about. From that context, I think at this point it is necessary for the College to intervene and take a stand, if it proposes to enter this law into the agenda, why does it propose, if it does not suggest, why does it not propose.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3835	The college is unanimous in the next conclusion. We are currently withdrawing this item from the agenda. If by the next session, the continuation of the session we expect will be, get the opinion of the committee, we remain in that position, we will return to the agenda, if not, then we will remain on our way. And the other commission will take their opinion. We're waiting for the opinion of both committees. So it refers to both committees. ustavnopravni law has not taken a stand, and that is why, under these conditions, we are removing ourselves from this session. Have you figured out what the conditions are? Thank you very much. Point 14 is postponed until the Constitutional Commission's opinion is obtained, and we have an opinion from the second commission. Point 13.a) Instead of the proposal, the draft law on the holidays of BiH will stand. The promoter agrees and there is no need for us to vote on it. I think it's quite clear. It's the right thing to do, and why take it away from him. Point 16, will provide answers to MPs' questions and questions. Are you agreeing not to vote on this? I think this is a formal matter. You're not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3836	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this point of answer to parliamentary questions has been very well introduced, only it cannot be on the same level as the parliamentary questions. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat should prepare a list of issues and the names of MPs with each question it has been asked and addressed, so that we do not create confusion and that we do not debate for three hours about anything. If there is an appropriate minister, deputy or representative of the BiH presidency, or a representative of the College, we will receive an immediate response. I pray that in the break that we have, as far as I understand from our agreement, between 3 and 4 and up to 3 we may move to work on the agenda, prepare a review of the questions raised so far, and whom it is addressed and who has asked the question. That's how we do it in the future. It doesn't make sense. We could run a hundred things today. This is a correct attitude towards those who have asked a question, to those to whom it applies. Thank you very much. I will, however, suggest a point that is reshape and read. Answer MPs' questions and questions. We have 32 in the O.R., or 33. Who's in? - Who's against it? - 32 votes. - Who's against it? There isn't. - Uzdržan 1 Does anyone have any objections to the voting process. There isn't. I understand that this point has been reformed and that there is an answer to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions, and now, gentlemen Members, we are voting for the integral agenda of this session. 1. Giving consent to ratification of 17 agreements according to the agenda as you have brought, not to read; 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Border Service Act, on the conclusions of MPs Nikola Špirić and Halid Genjac to discuss the Central Bank's response; 3. Granting consent for the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Deputy 4. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the period January-September 1999; 5. Draft Budget of the BiH institution and international obligations for BiH for 2000.6. Draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000 7. Report on the public debate and the submission of a proposal on drafts (a) Election Law, Proposer Drago Ljubičić, (b) Election Law, Proposer of the SDP Group; 8. Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 1.1. — 1.12.1999; 9. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat; 10. Draft Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives; 11. Proposal for a Law on Public Corrections of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, legislators Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković 13. Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH (a) Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH Proposing MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, (b) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer, MP Vito Rakić; 14. Law on holidays and holidays in BiH (a) Draft Law on the holidays of BiH, Proposers Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, MPs, (b) Draft Law on holidays and holidays in BiH, Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 15. Draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts and 16 16. Answer MPs' questions and questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3838	One intervention. Our proposal is the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, not the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3839	Sir, I speak my own language, and the translator will translate it. Thank you very much. So it translates into this as the gentleman said. You heard the integral text of the agenda. In the O.R., how many MPs? 33. I ask the MPs, who's in favour of the agenda? All unanimous. Thank you and thank Bog. I find that the agenda has been unanimously adopted. We're moving on to 1. It's a part of the agenda. I suggest, gentlemen, that we discuss this point in an integrated manner, as suggested. Ad.1. Giving consent to ratification 17 of the Agreements, Poslanik may intervene on any of the 17 agreements offered. I'm opening a debate on the first item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3840	Thank you. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission discussed yesterday all the agreements that you have on the agenda today. At the Commission's meeting, Mr Mirsad Kurtović, a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, was present on behalf of the promoter. The Commission unanimously concluded that there is a constitutional basis for giving consent to ratification of all agreements proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH and which are presently held at a meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3841	Let me just hear again from the President of the Commission and on behalf of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3842	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am on behalf of the Commission for International Relations in some way authorised to state the Commission's position, which has considered all these agreements before last month, meaning last month, and proposes to Parliament that all agreements, as mentioned here, be accepted, by asking on the Commission two questions which are essentially not supposed to affect the clarification, related to agreements, but as information was interesting to the members of the Commission, and that is whether there is in the information that other countries have come from the former Yugoslavia, what agreement they have reached, if they are, with the Paris Club, because in these agreements, by the end of the last year, from the date of signing of the agreement, certain financial commitments that should have been made from 17 pages of BiH to the countries signatories of the Paris Club. Did we settle these obligations, since the tight interest rates are extremely high? That's the two questions we had with this attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3843	Thank you very much. Do we have a representative? Špirić learned to go out, so as soon as he gets up, he thinks he's got his word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3844	I apologize, Špirić did not learn to go out, but Špirić is the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission. At a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, we came to a unanimous conclusion that we should propose to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly representative council that all of those agreements be ratified, within the framework of the debate, it is also proposed that in agreements wherever the BiH government says stands, the Council of Ministers of BiH also stands as a constitutional category. You'll see who those are. These are the agreements under b), d, f, j), k, therefore, wherever the BiH government stands, if the Council of Ministers and I were to ask you, that we would not soon come into a situation that we do not know who we are or what we are. Are we government or are we Council of Ministers? The Constitution states the Council of Ministers of BiH and we would do well to adhere to the Constitution, our own Constitution of the state in which we live.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3845	Here, you heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3846	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I really welcome the fact that today we will ratify some 18 international agreements and I think we should continue this activity very intensively, given the need to establish economic relations with many countries in the world. The number of countries with which we have established economic relations is much smaller than the number of countries with which we do not have established diplomatic relations, which is very important for the performance of our economy, for exports and everything else. Compared to these agreements, I note the fact that many of the 1998 agreements are not necessary for this home to wait so long with the ratification of these agreements. I ask to ensure that these agreements are more accurate for ratification, because this is of paramount importance for everyday life and normal business. I would like to refer to this agreement under point m) which I absolutely support. It is a trade agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic. However, there is one agreement missing that should be tied to this agreement, it is a debt reprogramming agreement with the Czech state. The debt of the BiH state is very large. In the Federation of BiH, it amounts to around 240 million marks and it should be our primary interest. Such an agreement in such developed economic relations, trade, is the interest of the Czech Republic, is also of BiH's interest, but much less than the interest of the Czech Republic. So I believe that we should have taken advantage of the possibility to impose an agreement on the Czech Republic, in terms of reprogramming this debt, which would make it easier for a significant economic situation, and in the Federation of BiH, we have a major problem with the privatisation of banks, due to the lack of such an agreement. An explanation of the BiH Council of Ministers is needed, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Relations, why no debt reprogramming agreement can be reached with the Czech State. If we did it with the Paris Club, with the London Club, with the Council of Europe, there's no reason why we can't do it with the Czech Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3847	This must be addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. Does anyone else want to discuss it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3848	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman and esteemed colleagues, I didn't mean to answer, but since my colleague Bičakčić, by the way, put a 200-million-dollar debt in front of Parliament and change, which we know, some of us know what this is about. I ask the following, if you think of this discussion of his to conclude something, then I suggest we immediately conclude that information is prepared and that this question is put before Parliament. I argue that the issue of debt to the Czech issue of the BiH financial system as a whole, the health of the BiH financial system, that is, the banking system. Here at the small door, why did I answer, so that MP Bičakčić, as vice president of the party, as the federal prime minister, would not speak to us again in a year or two, I spoke to Parliament. So I ask if you want information on this so we can discuss it at Parliament, because I am responsible for saying that the issue of this debt is not a question of relations with the Czech Republic, but of the reconstruction of the banking system in BiH as a whole. The issue of the banking system in BiH is the issue of BiH and every one of its people and every entity. If you're going to ask questions and answers, then I'm pulling what I said. I want to find out that Mr. Bičakčić marked one of the key questions, and he marked it differently. So that we don't play cat and mouse, I don't want to open a debate right now. I suggest that, since the already diversant counterpart Bičakčić has put this issue into the Czech debt, under ratification of agreements that are not at all controversial. I suggest that we conclude that we are not doing this in the future, and that, on a specific issue, we conclude that this is being prepared from the competent ministry to Parliament, so that this point is put on the agenda, so that Mr. Bičakčić, in his jurisdiction, does what he does for the salary as a federal prime minister, sees there what happens to the joint bank, the central bank, the various branch banks, what about the debt arising from Zvornik, from Mostar, and I don't know that I don't fit the cities in the Federation of BiH. Please don't just lead us to now, like, here we are, and we're gone. When they start saving money, they'll go away, and then they'll say, "Bičakčić, I'm warning you." You didn't warn anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3849	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, fortunately everything is recorded here, so there is a possibility and a stenogram. I'm asking for protection again, since Sejfudin Tokic just explained to me what I think, now Dr. Sejfudin Tokić has explained to me. Lagumdžija calls it a diversion. Dear Dr. Lagumdžija calls me a diversion here. It's never been me, it's slander and insult, and I'm not going to sue, but I want it to be constant here. I asked a very clear and precise question and very clear and precise 19 addressed it to the Ministry of Economic Relations. I support the trade agreement listed here under point m) between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Czech Republic and I ask for an answer as to why the signing of this agreement has not used the possibility of signing a debt reprogramming agreement with the Czech Republic. This is a very clear and precise question and it is not a diversion, but a normal parliamentary question that is in the jurisdiction of this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3850	We today, within this item of the agenda, have a discussion of the agreement. What Mr. Bičakčić has started, i.e. a question to the Assembly, but it cannot go with these agreements. Debt regulation must be a special item of the agenda, and in this part, I join my colleague Lagumdžija, to ask the Assembly for the next assembly, to have full information on who made the debt, which is debt, when the debt is accumulated and then to consider the elements of the reprogramming of that debt. I suggest that it be in the next assembly without burdening the examination of these agreements today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3851	Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow Members, I am with these memos that we received with agreements, trade agreements for ratification and agreements on incentive and reciprocal investment protection. We see these agreements, mostly agreed or agreed in '98. year, so I ask the question, why have they waited this long to come out to Parliament? I don't know if it took this period of a year and a half, about, to end?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3852	Thank you very much. Has anyone from the Council of Ministers of BiH, here, Minister Kurtović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3853	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to separate these agreements into two groups, conditional on three groups. The first 12 agreements are agreements which regulate BiH's financial obligations, based on loans it took before the war in BiH, i.e. loans under which the former SFRY was guaranteed. These are not commercial loans, but are loans taken by the State of SFRY and corresponding to international fines. gave the regulations some of the forms of assurance that all debts made will be recovered. Given that the former SFRY has fallen apart, BiH, as one of the former Yugoslavia's parts, has taken over all obligations where the former SFRY was guaranteed, that these loans and financial commitments will be returned. A group of 12 countries offered here belong to the Paris Group of Trustees and besides these 12 countries there are four countries with which we have not yet managed to bring all the elements together, so that we can make a concrete agreement in the form in which it was delivered to you here. With these 12 countries and these four countries that we should soon finish, BiH has completely completed all its foreign obligations and there is no longer any financial obligation where it is as a guarantee state, thus meeting the necessary and necessary 20 conditions required by the IMF and the rest of the world's financial institutions. The issue of other states to which we have debts, but where BiH is no guarantee, is neither a question nor a problem that this parliament should deal with, and the IMF is solely against any BiH engagement in this regard, because there is no form, no kind of guarantee of BiH as a state to take on such credit obligations, but we are not running away from being some kind of assistance, in order to achieve a more favourable agreement. In concrete cases between BiH banking institutions and some other financial institutions, some of the countries. That would also be the answer why BiH did not include a debt to the Czech Republic that was created, true, before the war. However, according to the loan, BiH has not given any form of guarantee, and accordingly, it is not obliged to present to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to take over those commitments as with these 12 countries. We, as you know, in October 1998, reached an agreement with the Paris Club of Trustees and BiH received a direct or indirect pardon from 67% of all obligations that were established in the 10th month of 1998. Other countries that have been decomposed by the former Yugoslavia have not received such benefits and have partially reprogrammed their original commitments, but without any forgiveness, under the original interest rates under which the former Yugoslavia took loans from certain countries. As for the obligations that BiH has had since the moment it signed the agreement regulation minutes, i.e. since October 1998, that is, from the moment we established the true state of obligations for the country's partner, we have found interest rates and everything else, made an appropriate agreement that was signed, BiH has regularly reconciled all its obligations. This means, no matter what agreements we ratify today, we regularly reconciled our obligations to the countries with which we made those agreements in '99. A year. The application of MP Špirić, that there is a government name in certain agreements. I should like to tell you right away, it is not in the classical sense that the Government of the Council of Ministers, etc., but some of the countries under the notion of government include the Council of Ministers, the Parliamentary Assembly and other institutions of the legislative and executive authorities and hence in the agreements in the original English language, this name is not a large V, the government, but few governments and includes one set of institutions located in BiH, or in the country with which we sign the agreement. That explanation was also given by OHR, because we had some problems with the countries with which we made agreements, because they only required such a name to stand in the agreement because they have their type agreements which they were reluctant to change when it comes to BiH and its regulation of obligations. Given that there were no other questions, I have to say that I would not know exactly why the BiH presidency services did not refer in time to ratification of this agreement. The BiH Council of Ministers ended the agreements, you saw and when they were originally signed, they were referred in time to the ratification and approval procedure and why and which is at stake, I really couldn't answer you right now, I believe that the BiH presidency's professional services can say better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3854	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3855	Fellow MPs, gentlemen of the presidency, I would not be able to accept Mr. Kurtović's explanation of the name of the BiH government for the simple reason that these foreign countries that have so called, all those institutions that have participated in the creation of this agreement, they have the right to call it whatever they want, but it is quite clear that when translated from foreign language into the languages of BiH, they can only be translated into the term that works. It is known here that the term of the BiH Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers of BiH works in all three languages. By the way, speaking of it, one language intervention and the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers are terms that belong to my language, and if one of those languages is making a language for himself, then he really can't take the right to forbid me from using all those terms however I want and how I think it's right. I insist that before the vote this issue is resolved by the BiH government, a term, otherwise, I am prepared to vote for ratification of only those agreements called agreements between the BiH Council of Ministers and the governments of certain countries.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3856	We heard the explanation of Minister Kurtović why it stands a little bit v. Do you accept the explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3857	Ladies and gentlemen, it is my view that Mrs. Rađević's MP is absolutely right. It's not about the original English text, it's about translation into Serbian, Croatian, Bosniak. We are not prevented from writing here the Council of Ministers of BiH, because these agreements must also be ratified by the parliaments of the countries concerned. However, let them write if it is for their needs, the BiH government, but let us cultivate constitutional categories here. Insisting on something that's constitutional. He cannot conclude in the name of Nikola Špirić, here, let him not be angry, Sulejman Tihić, some contract. My name is Nikola, he's Sulejman. It's not the same essential government and the Council of Ministers, you know that political debates are being conducted whether or not they will be. When the BiH government writes in the constitution, then the government will be able to conclude the contracts. This is about translations for our needs and for our positive legislation. That is why I insist that the BiH Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers of BiH be translated, and it cannot be the Government of BiH, and the countries concerned must also be ratified, their parliaments there should be a government. I think she's right, Mrs. Rađević, when she says that it is necessary to accept the ratification of all these where the Council of Ministers writes, and this, gentlemen, please, please adapt the Constitution behind which we stand as MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3858	I have a proposal for two conclusions, before we move on, have you agreed? Thank you very much. I have two conclusions. One conclusion that is related to giving consent to ratification, all the names in the agreements to be harmonised, all the names of BiH institutions listed in the agreements to be brought into line with constitutional solutions, and I don't think there's much debate here. Please, if anyone thinks this is a vote, I think it's too high. Please get this into the stenogram. Is there anything against this conclusion? There isn't. Clearly that's it. Now I ask you, does anyone else want to discuss it? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. The minister said. Mr. Minister, do you have an extra 22 answers? There isn't. The ambassador, Mrs. Muminagić, is not pleased. I didn't hear you, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3859	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will answer briefly about the agreements. From this part of the new presidency's mandate, as far as the '96 contract is concerned. The year until '98. For years, it's a really messy situation. We cannot answer for this meeting of the BiH presidency. The truth is we've been working hard on all the contracts and agreements since '96. by today's office and delivery in Parliament's regular parliamentary procedure, and that is likely to be resolved by the first half of this year, but should be returned to '96. year to '98. A year. As for this year, it goes more up-to-date.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3860	Thank you very much, here, there's an answer. Madam Ambassador, is there an intervention now? There is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3861	I'm just having an intervention right now. I didn't ask about '96. For a year, I've already asked for five concrete agreements that are in the middle of '98. the agreement reached and the people who agreed on the BiH Council of Ministers and have been waiting for the BiH presidency ever since, and I think that's exactly the call.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3862	Thank you very much. Here, we heard the answers, the questions, and it's all fine. I want to come to a vote before I come to the vote to conclude the proposal for a conclusion that I have proposed in the next form. The names of BiH institutions, listed in all agreements, are aligned with constitutional solutions. I find that there has been no objection to this conclusion by any MP. Now we're going to the vote, but in the package. There's no need to vote individually, because why. There are 32 present. I ask the MPs, who is in favour of giving consent to ratifying all 17 agreements listed in the agenda. Thank you very much. I find that all 17 agreements have been ratified unanimously. I suggest, in accordance with Dr. Lagumji, I suggest the conclusion. I have two alternatives, so let's make a deal. The Council of Ministers of BiH (BiH Ministry of Economic Relations) is tasked with delivering the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives information on BiH's responsibility to other countries and how to reprogramme the debt. That's one conclusion. The second, modified conclusion, is also tasked with delivering the same body to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives information on BiH's responsibility to the Czech Republic. I'm asking dr. Lagumji, he was the one who discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3863	As far as I'm concerned, the Czech Republic can do anything. Who's to suggest the conclusion you just heard? Have we heard now, gentlemen dear? I can do it again. The Council of Ministers is in charge.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3866	The institution is for us the Council of Ministers of BiH. The BiH Council of Ministers is in charge, where people are in charge, which should order what to be done. I'm thinking about talking to the institution, we chose the institution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3867	My intervention, Mr. Chairman, was motivated solely by what I said and by Mr. Bičakčić's step. I'm looking for information we'd like to discuss. For information, we do not need political consent within the Council of Ministers of BiH. We need technical information on what is happening here and what is the problem and what are the options in the game. We do not need political reconciliation in the BiH Council of Ministers on what is the debt and what is planned to do with it. We need the department's information. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Ministry can do that. According to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament can ask the ministry, and the reason why we are not asking the Council of Ministers of BiH is because we do not want any from the SDP's point of view, I repeat none. The requirement to refer to the Council of Ministers of BiH, which for us until December 28th and December 12th of last year was a substantive absence, and from 28th 12th and formally, respectively, and if you will, is political for us, and that is the reason to avoid a debate on whether or not there is a Council of Ministers of BiH, we suggest that it be delivered by the competent ministry. If this is what the BiH Parliament thinks it wants the BiH Council of Ministers to do, it is now a matter of the BiH Parliament that we do not want to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3868	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, we discussed BiH's debts in detail earlier with clear responsibilities, annuities, wars, interest, etc. From this, we could see what are and what are the responsibilities for what is guaranteed by BiH and what is interested in BiH, Parliament. We don't seem to be listening here, but we're just looking for certain reasons to conduct a discussion. The foreign trade minister made it clear that the debt to Czechoslovakia, i.e. the Czech Republic, is not a guarantee of BiH. Therefore, whoever took the loan, which the bank took, should the authorities of the Federation of BiH, the RS authorities, if there is a loan, and be discussed there. We have clearly received answers here for all the 24 guaranteed by BiH and what this parliament is discussing, according to the BiH Constitution and what is defined in Chapter VIII, the BiH finance. Therefore, I suggest we make no conclusion there, it was one debate and a comment, please look at the Federation of BiH Assembly and elsewhere. Here, we heard the opinion of Ambassador Rakić. I ask Ambassador Lagumdžija, he remains with the proposal of his conclusion. Thank you very much. I'll read, in accordance with your discussion, the proposal. The ministry of economic relations with abroad is tasked with delivering the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives information on BiH's responsibility to the Czech Republic. Am I right now? What's up, MP, okay? I'm asking the MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3870	speaks from the site My proposal is not to tell us how much it is according to the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3871	Then what? Form a conclusion for you, so I'll make it easier, then we'll know what you wanted. Here you go, MP, please, formulate your conclusion to enter the stenogram, come out and formulate the conclusion. Form it into a stenogram. I'm asking for a little patience, these are more important questions and I want no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3872	Mr. Bičakčić asked the question of debt to the Czech Republic, from the point of view of ratification of the Agreement on international mutual debt. I just want it to be concluded that the competent council, the competent ministry, is giving us information on the problems related to BiH's debt to the Czech Republic and its repercussions to the BiH financial system.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3873	You've heard the exact conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3874	According to international regulations, BiH is not obliged to the Czech Republic, let me tell you right away. The formulation may be a long pre-war business bank of Sarajevo towards partners from the Czech Republic, but it must be defined by which jobs, nor can it be said towards the Czech Republic, because, beware, the Business Bank is now working, illustrations work, with 20 companies and at that point, who knows how much they owe or not. Here is exactly what banking institution owes to whom, with which dates, etc. So it's not BiH's debt, I'm stressing once more, nor can we take on such a formulation, not even in the information we'd like to write. BiH officially does not have any debt to the Czech Republic. The economic bank has 25 debts to the Czech Republic, based on some pre-war arrangements, but BiH does not have and the debt cannot be qualified as BiH's debt.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3875	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3876	I really think it is necessary for this information to be delivered in writing, following this explanation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because this issue will not be resolved without the participation of the BiH state, or the Council of Ministers of BiH. We don't need professional help in entities, we have enough expertise, but we need state aid to resolve this issue. The Bank of Commerce is not some kind of bank private or such, but at that time the headquarters of BiH, at that time when the debts that the comrades of Hamdija, Branko and Milanko were able to sign were created, at high and low, in the course of the hunt, and for equipment located from Agrokomerac to Zvornik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3877	We heard, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3878	The BiH Council of Ministers will provide some information that, of course, we are not obliged to give, but this would warn of a phenomenon that, here today, we hear today whether there is a Council of Ministers of BiH or not. If there is no Council of Ministers of BiH, there is no ministry either. Therefore, you have no one to ask for information from. The BiH Council of Ministers exists and thus is in agreement with the BiH Constitutional Court that made the decision it made. The BiH Council of Ministers exists and should not be politicised, this is separate from information. As for the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers will provide information under the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Rules of Procedure. The Council of Ministers and the structure of the Council of Ministers cannot be bypassed by insisting on one ministry, for some political reasons, the way the Council of Ministers works in accordance with the BiH Council of Ministers' Law. The BiH Council of Ministers is ready to do its job, but I would caution against politicising the existence of the BiH Council of Ministers, which, of course, exists and works, has submitted a report to you and is still there, in line with the BiH Constitutional Court's decision, is still valid. Therefore, if we want to work constructively, this should be directed to the BiH Council of Ministers. As an MP, I will not vote to bypass the structures of the BiH Council of Ministers, nor to amend the ad hoc law on the BiH Council of Ministers and the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Council of Ministers for some political reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3879	Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. Please, how many in the O.R.? Thirty-two are present. I ask you, who's to suggest the conclusion of the Lagumdžija MP you've heard? 11. Opposite 1. Abstained 20. What you're suggesting, I can count. We only have 26 three options, to vote yes, no and to be abstentioned. Fourth, what's up? When he is not present, he may not vote, but he is present, we have no fourth option. So you have an objection to the vote. You have an objection. I repeat the voting process. Who's for the proposal, please, sir, slowly, I'm not playing, this is an important thing, calm down, you're gonna need it, you don't have to rush. Who is to propose the conclusion of Lagumdžija? - Who's against it? - One, I'm guessing the others are being held back. Does anyone have any objections to the voting process? There isn't. So 12 for, 1 against, 19 abstentions. I find the conclusion hasn't been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3880	Ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, namely, I will remind you that MP Bičakčić has asked a very appropriate and justifiable question why he did not consider the possibility of reprogramming his debt to the Czech Republic during the trade arrangements with the Czech Republic. Of course, it was answered by the minister, very clearly, who explained what was going on. I believe the question was appropriate and the answer was necessary and beneficial. Lagumdžija's poslanik called it all together a parachute diversion, and then he took the initiative of MEP Bičakčić and suggested the conclusion. Of course, not being overly sick of who said what, I do, however, think this initiative should be used. I suggest the conclusion that it is said that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the BiH Council of Ministers and competent ministries, including, seeks information on the state of BiH's debt to the Czech Republic and ways to address the problem. I ask the PSBiH House of Representatives to plead on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3881	This is a new proposal for a conclusion. Anybody want to comment? There is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3882	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really think we are wasting our time, because we should really appreciate the position of every MP, especially a group of MPs or MPs. Each group of MPs, or individual MP, shall have the right to request from the minister, the ministry of certain information. This is all we're doing right now. It's like an over-indulgence where we're trying to disable information in advance, with all due respect, all our fellow MPs. Indeed, it will never be clear to me why certain people are running away from getting additional information and, of course, we, as the SDP MPs' Club, will ask the competent ministry, through 27 parliamentary initiatives and in accordance with the obligations of the ministry and the minister, will be obliged to give this answer. If someone wants to continue this whole farce and win some beer victory, I don't know where I am in no context, we have nothing against, but in the further voting process we will be abstentioned, we will use our parliamentary, constitutional right to ask the minister, the ministry, this information that is very important, because they have shown differences in the debate between Mr. Federal Prime Minister and MEP Bičakčić, the foreign minister, the BiH Co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers, from earlier, about the character of this 200 million at all, or I don't know how much money either.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3883	Thank you very much. I would ask the MPs to refrain from the terms, because if something is proposed as a conclusion, there is a procedure that must be met, and parliamentary questions are known to be asked and no one is denied.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3884	This, true, is not a debt, I would say BiH's budget, this with the Czech Republic, as the minister said. However, it is obvious that part of the relationship between BiH and the Czech Republic, so I propose, is my proposal at the moment, to conclude that the Council of Ministers of BiH, together with the governments of the entity, the Federation of BiH and RS, agrees on ways and proposals related to the reprogramming of the debt between BiH and the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3885	Please deliver that, that's the next conclusion. Deliver it. We have to formulate, did you manage to write it down? No, there are MPs here who say it's a circus if we're asking to know what they want, but we can't do that. Did you manage to write it?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3886	I propose that the BiH Parliament draws the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers, together with entity governments, agree on a proposal to reprogramme BiH's debt to the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3887	Thank you, we've heard it clear now. Is there anyone else? There isn't. I suggest that the Vice-President of Genjac read first because he suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3888	The proposal for a conclusion that I propose that the PSBiH House of Representatives asks the BiH Council of Ministers, with competent ministries, to provide information on the state of BiH's debt to the Czech Republic and on the possibility of resolving the issue. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3889	So the word prewar is added. How many are there? 30. Thank you. Who's to propose the conclusion of the Vice-President Genjac? - 12-against? No - Abstained 18 Conclusion not accepted. We're going to the second conclusion of MP Divković. You heard the conclusion. There's no need to read, he's in a stenogram, you heard the good news. Who's in? - 5-against? There isn't. - Abstention 25, this conclusion didn't go through either. Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda item. I'm setting a break by 4:00. Mr. Moris just joined us. [[PAUZA]] I warmly greet him on behalf of all MPs. I'm glad we're back together. I suggest we continue our work because we have a quorum. We're moving to agenda two. Ad.2. The Commission's report to the College in an effort to reach agreement on the BiH Border Service Act You, gentlemen, have received a record of an effort to reach agreement. There's no need to discuss it unless there are questions about the record. No questions about the record. Thank you very much. I can only accept the record question.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3890	In this final position of the record, I have to admit that I don't know what it says or what it's meant to say with this, because from this I'm reading that one of the co-chairs, mr. Pero Skopljak, he points out that the law has no constitutional basis, and then I read that he supports it. Well, I think we should explain that, but the rest is unclear.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3891	We tried to write in the record what anyone said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3892	It is a little clumsy here interpreting this opinion of mine, that is, seeing it. We are point 5, paragraph V, paragraph 3, so it was quoted, the Constitution of BiH that we then analyzed, we realised unanimously then that textually does not correspond to this very paragraph, that point, but that in the Constitution we can find a much better point and that we should look for them, and in this context I have asked for a more quality basis in the Constitution, but that the law for which I have already voted would be a contradiction that I do not now vote for it. Therefore, I seek only a better constitutional basis, which can be found in the Constitution and then I am ready to vote for the law and I voted, anyway. Is it any clearer now or isn't it, I don't know? Later, the last sentence is a bit clumsy, where a European state is placed and some kind of border is being made from the state, which, I think, is understandable.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3893	Here's a question about the record.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3894	I'd like to clarify one thing, if you'll excuse me, members of the College. You have re-exposed similar views here, you, Mr. Banjac, were absent, and here, as far as I can see in the record, have indicated that you do not have competent proposings present at your meeting to agree on the Law on the State Border Service. Since I consider it a central task of the House of Representatives, a commitment arising from the Constitution, as you said and as Mr. Genjac said and Mr. Skopljak, you also express a general mood that was in the last session of the House of Representatives in which no one has disputed the need for this law to be passed. I ask you, because I see that here are representatives of the BiH Presidency, to join the vote, to see if there is anything that is unclear now that we have all representatives of the BiH Presidency for you. If you would be pleased with some additional explanation from the promoter and offer us, of course, as the College one position, to pass this law to me. I ask you to take advantage of the presence as chairman of the people who responded again to the debate on the same law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3895	Thank you very much. Dear gentlemen, MPs, esteemed guests, I would like to speak as an MP and at this point as a member of the Commission who has debated this important legal act of BiH. I am unpleasantly surprised by the fact that, as chairman, with the consent of my esteemed colleagues, I have invited all three members of the BiH Presidency or their authorised persons to attend the meeting of the Kolegijum and to assist us in this way to reach a legal act. Responsible and open to the public of BiH and before you I claim and express my disappointment with the procedure that none of the invited attended, it is, gentlemen, the underestimation of this Parliament and its leadership. It's underestimation of a law that can't be passed. I cannot accept that in the Constitution of BiH that I have sworn to stand, I should respect it, and I have been denied the basic human right to have someone come and say, sir, this amendment is not why I accept it. If that argument is reasonable, it's justified, if it stands factually supported, well, of course, that, as a man who cares about the deal, I will act so as to give up, but that simply, gentlemen, all one 30 amendments from the promoter are rejected, without debate, without being able to at least compromise the arguments, I, as a man, do not accept it. I consider it a denial of fundamental human rights, which is the right to freedom of opinion. She's been denied to us right now. I am here, and thank you to Ambassador Spahić, who has noted this remarkablely, and expressed his disdain through a statement, because I said, I could not agree. How do I get along when there's no one who can respond to the dilemmas that are present? I continue to argue that there is a possibility of not finding a constitutional basis for the adoption of this important law, I continue to argue. By modifying the part of the text that is now there. If Mr. Skopljak and thank him very much for having said it openly here, he says: “If we had discussed it for a long, long time, asking whether it is so”, the man himself said that he was not convinced that what was written, that it was not that constitutional basis, but that there is a possibility and I claim that there is a possibility. Should we now consider this such an important moment that, by respecting MP Spahić's suggestion, we go so easily over it as if nothing had happened and that maybe tomorrow we blame someone for this or that, and we haven't heard the arguments and we haven't responded to the arguments. Now, gentlemen, I cannot accept it as a way of working in parliament and I think that such actions should be avoided. I don't know what to say now. I'm saying, there was no way we could agree. Believe me, the calls were officially sent. Come on, people, let's sit down. You're the promoters. You know what you wanted. You know where that constitutional foundation stands. Niko's here, nobody's here, nobody's here. I, sir, don't know why someone didn't come. You want to talk. I don't want an explanation now, it's too late now. I'm asking the service to bring in the calls. I'm asking you to deny this to the public here, please do it immediately. Thank you very much. Yeah, if it's about the record. I just said we agreed to call them and we called them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3896	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, distinguished representatives, honored guests, I just want to say that what I have as an invitation in the BiH Presidency office is an invitation for today's session and a notice that at 10 o'clock a college, no consent, no commission and I have it in front of me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3897	That wasn't today, sir, you're wrong. That was 31.12. And you weren't there when I contacted you on the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3898	But afterwards, it was a Parliament session where we participated, where I explained that the BiH presidency was writtenly manifested on amendments 31 and that it did not accept the amendments and I presented the reasons why the amendments were not accepted. I don't see that now the BiH Presidency has in any way obstructed this process where it has been written about the amendments. I don't think that's the point. The BiH presidency has done its part, in this home it is honored to do its part and to what it is right and I am not contesting it, but to not create in public the impression that the BiH presidency has in any way obstructed any step in adopting the Border Service, I think it is wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3899	Thank you very much. I have to replicate. Please, I'm not getting into how up-to-date the service of a member of the BiH presidency is or isn't, it's not my job. This isn't about today's session or today's calls. This is a call for a meeting held on 31.12. here in the building of joint institutions. There must be documentation and it will be delivered to the sekretarijat for insight when no one has attended. I say responsibly, whatever you want, gentlemen, you want us to get along, and you're just not ready to argue with us about what we've delivered you, so what do I do? It's a principle you take or leave. No, sir, there's no dialogue. The dialogue is, he says, it's meeting me and you, where both, looking for a compromise, we go out richer for a new experience. You gentlemen would like it your way. There's no dialogue then, then that's an order. Tell me how it can be a match when someone says it has to be.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3900	Only one correction, my last name is difficult but it's Čaršimamović. I'd like to say two things. First of all, we've discussed this law, as far as I can remember, two or three times. Today we came to vote on the law and the debate is reopened. I'll use some of that, that right, to say a few things. If the reason is, if I understand correctly and your only reason why you don't agree, your insult that someone didn't come to you, I don't think that should be the real reason and that you should accept it. I'd like to, right before the vote, because I think I should just vote on this before I vote to say what's going to happen if we don't vote. You are witnessing that the newspapers are constantly talking about the presence of large prostitution in BiH, drugs. I am convinced that if we did any law on border services and set up this border service, our children would be protected from such immoral matters, we would be responsible if we cast our voice against this law today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3901	I need a replica, because I'm called. Mr. Ambassador, please, for lack of clarity. I'm not hurt. Agreeing is a face-to-face meeting to confront arguments about what it should be about, I haven't had a chance to face arguments. I have a lot of questions, I had, actually, it's too late to ask why you refuse. Where is the legal and constitutional basis to reject what has been proposed as an amendment, and not to say, "refuse," there's nothing left. Where is democracy, Your Honor? I'm not 32 offended, I'm simply put in a position to have no one to face arguments with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3902	Dear fellow chairman, fellow MPs, guests, I would only be replicating the predecessor who discussed when he said the BiH presidency had done its part of the job. Unfortunately, at least when it comes to a member of the RS presidency, he did not do his part of the job, he did not respect the provisions of the BiH Constitution before he made such a proposal or decision, he had to have the consent of the RS Assembly, thus injuring Article 3(5). The BiH Constitution. Unfortunately, in order to raise my hand for this law, I must indeed have, because at least I believe, as an MP for the highest legislative body of BiH, that I must have a fat explanation for it. Unfortunately, in the variant, I must have in my head an explanation on why the regulation in question is passed. I agree with Mr. Chairman who said there was also a full debate on the Constitutional Commission on this, and then it remained the tendency to really make this law on border police, to find a modusa, that it was based on the Constitution of BiH, but obviously there was no good will from someone to do that part of the job. We, unfortunately, all MPs are in a position to vote for something that I guess we're not all prepared for, or we don't have a legal stand. So much, Mr. Chairman, in that context, I will certainly vote against.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3903	That's your business, MP. Since MP Spahić directly called me because of the text of a statement I made in the record. I pray, those who have answered, can only accept discussions if it is in accordance with the minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3904	I'd like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman to stick to the Rules of Procedure. The debate on the State Border Service Act is closed. I ask you to lead the alignment properly, to see if what the Representative Council has asked for has been achieved or not. We have a concrete answer. I ask you to avoid holding political objections, rather than continuing the voting process, to see if this law has received the support of the Representative Council or not. Whoever dropped what was in the procedure, let them bear their own political responsibility. It'll all be clear to the citizens. I am the least in favour of calling each other, but I ask you to open the procedure for the declaration of the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3905	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the debate on the State Border Service Act is concluded and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to approach the plea. Since the BiH presidency, all three of its members agreed, the New York Declaration still states on the establishment of the Border Service. We had a lot of objections to this law, but we gave up, because by consensus on the 33rd Presidency of BiH it was adopted, given that in the BiH Parliament, we did not get consent after the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3906	We, Mr. MP, have agreed to intervene on the record.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3907	I would like to inform you that the SDP MPs' Club will ask for a high representative who today or these days will declare this law adopted to adopt it in the original version in accordance with European standards, without these compromises contained in this proposal at Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3908	You're the only one who can get the wrong quote. You want an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3909	My fellow MPs, yet, at least formally, have not been threatened by a high representative. I really can't understand that someone is taking the right to threaten me on behalf of that high representative, who hasn't threatened me himself yet. It's really out of nice behavior, not to say anything...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3910	I'm closing up. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3911	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, there's really no reason to threaten anyone, especially the lady who just answered her word. We've just made our political position clear, and for you, the political position, my only suggestion is that you say it clearly and that you don't mask it through forms, so we're not invited to the Constitutional Commission, so these haven't come. It is clear to the Bosnian Herzegovina public, as well as to the RS voters, that you are against the law. Against the Border Service Act. You're looking for an excuse in the next election. There are those who, in other areas, have repeatedly claimed to have voter support, I am responsible for saying that it is at the expense of all honest people, who want to prevent corruption, crime, illegal trade and that it has nothing to do with national interests in the way you try to present it. It remains for you to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3912	This isn't a replica. Please, you insult the dignity of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3913	Bog forbid I insult, but clearly state the political stance, it remains to be debated, whether a political game in which a member of the BiH presidency will vote in favour, and the same representatives of the political coalition in the House of Representatives will vote against. This remains to be considered by the entire political public in BiH. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3914	Honored members of the College and representatives of the BiH presidency's proposal. Since there is only a debate on the record, on the position of reconciliation, on the positions of members of the College and on the alignment of this law, I would like to say only two more sentences. Last time we had a precise request from MPs who all expressed their will, I underline, that the Border Service Act be passed, arguing it from different constitutional grounds etc. Now it was important to ask only one question of absence among representatives of the BiH presidency of Mr Radišić Živko. As far as I can register today, he was then a representative of Mr Izetbegović and a representative of Mr Jelavić. There has been a major discussion on European standards for signing official letters and decisions. That's when we agreed that European standards make sense. I'd like to ask you a question. Since we have received a very precise position from the BiH Presidency, Mr Jelavić, and have had very clear views on this matter with regard to all three members of the BiH Presidency, is it possible for us, as representatives, to receive a clear view of Mr Živko Radišić's representative, as it was a fundamental sub-quest opened in the discussion. This may facilitate the decision - making process and not create tension where it is not available. It is possible that the positions can also be seen to be clearer in making decisions. If you don't have to, then, please, I'm asking you to approach the vote without further discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3915	I want, as chairman, the Service brought the letters that were given to the gentlemen, so it's not exactly information that no faxes were sent, they have the numbers exactly, you saw. I just want him to get into the record for historical work analysis on all this. Please, it was a replica, but if it's just about the record. Let's go vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3916	My fellow MPs, I wouldn't need to replicate to Mr. Tokić, but the public does, I want to say on behalf of us 11 MPs from the RS. Since Mr Tokić claimed that we are against the Law on Border Police, I am responsible, some fellow MPs vote that this law will return to the BiH presidency and that it will go into the procedure, based on the Constitution, on behalf of all of us, I guarantee that we will vote in favour of the law, which the entities have agreed, the BiH Presidency has proposed to us. I am responsible for saying that we will vote for him, that is what I am saying to the public for, not for Mr. Tokić's sake.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3917	I could have said that we would have a replica, so I'd drive you, but I don't want to drive you, but I have to say that I saw a statement from one of my colleagues, who was said a few minutes ago, as the greatest defeat of parliamentaryism and the greatest defeat of the Assembly that I've sat in for three years, a little over three years. Public recognition that someone will be asked to declare the laws to us is a suspension of this congregation. By 35 it was done secretly and the result of this secret activity is exactly what we came up with today. Instead of looking for ways to get out of the stalemate where we came from, to do what everyone would support, and we were close to doing it, and we weren't, precisely because we're relying on the practice that we've done in the past year that we've secretly spent, to promote our political views, our legal acts, our projects, not through the Assembly, but through the Office of the High Representative. I support, I don't know who he was, Mr. Tokić, really, is it possible that a member of the BiH presidency who has a club here doesn't stand behind the amendment proposed by the parliamentary club? I also want to express my astonishment over such a relationship and such political attitudes. What the Syllabic Coalition proposed under the amendment was indeed a compromise that addressed all this situation, but precisely, relying on someone else in the name of the Assembly declaring the laws, gentlemen MPs, you didn't have enough hearing. Happy is the work of MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3918	We are discussing this law, and what the BiH presidency has managed to do or failed to do has already been done. We voted, we didn't have the entity's consent, so most of it. There was an attempt in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of our College to try to find consent. They didn't find her. We can only try now, can we find that agreement? Whether someone was present or not, I don't think it's an essential question, because the three of them were supposed to get along, try what we couldn't agree on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3919	The three of us don't ask.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3920	You didn't agree, so now he's here, and we can give a new argument, if we can get along, not go back to the law. We made the vote. The law has got the required majority. He didn't get the entity majority. He's not voted in general. That's the only part we have to go back to. If anyone has anything to say in hand, about our efforts to reach agreement, let them say, if not, I ask the chairman to conduct the procedure and hold the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3921	Thank you very much. No more reports. How many are there? - 30. Since it is in the first round and in accordance with the Constitution, I have analysed the Constitution, in the second round it is important that only the entity vote, because the first round has passed. I ask from the Federation of BiH who is against this law? - There's no one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3922	There's a business intervention, please. In the Constitution, which regulates the procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and that provision was also taken in the Rules of Procedure, of course, but I read it from the Constitution. "If the efforts of the alignment fail, as is the case here, the decision will be taken by the majority of those present and voting, under 36 conditions of voting against, not including two-thirds or more delegates and of the members elected from each entity." Therefore, most of those present and voting are necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3923	No problem. We can, but it's being said, because he's been through the first round and we still have to do it one more time, so we still have to do it one more time. We have 30, but I repeat the first round, which, in my opinion, is too high. - Who's in? - Who's against it? - 10 - Abstention 1 Let's entity, from RS who's against? – 10 From the Federation of BiH, who is against – no one. I find that the law did not get an entity majority, as 10 MPs voted against it from RS. That's over two-thirds. The law isn't passed. We move to the point under b. b) The report on reaching agreement on the conclusions of MP Nikola Špirić, Halid Genjac, on the central bank's response. Understanding has been reached and both conclusions have been accepted. Giving consent to the appointment of the Chief Auditor and Vice-President. The Kolegijum was in a position to take a unique position, that we believe this should be voted on in the package as proposed by the BiH presidency. We went there to achieve agreement, because we were asked, as the Assembly, to vote in the package, because three men belong to three constituent nations. That's the position of the Kolegijum. If someone wants to get about it, if they have the knowledge that consent has been reached, we can put it back on the vote. We can put in a proposal. It's not done, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3924	Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a will of those who make most of this representative council to choose an auditor, they will. I continue to insist on an individual vote, that the simple public of BiH be seen who is with whom. When there's power, when there's opposition. This is where things are wanted to disguise to that extent that all the authorities and all the opposition are, and that's impossible. I'm asking you for professional matters to plead individually. Niko one is defending MPs to vote for the Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian MP, if they think they meet the criteria, to once step out of this scheme that, here, BiH leads to what.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3925	I'm asking for a consultation with the Sekretarijat. 37
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3926	I'm asking for an individual vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3927	We can accept the individual vote. The Kolegijum's proposal to postpone the vote on this issue for the session, since it appears that consultations have not been carried out. Simply, here, we have now agreed whether to go individually, whether to go in the package, see what the BiH Presidency thought, to consult with the BiH Presidency and not to make it unnecessary complications. To consult with the BiH presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3928	I beg you, in addition to what the chairman suggested and the following, I wanted to say before he suggested. You don't have a clear situation here that we agree on and what we correct. Keep in mind that out of three people last time two people got most of them, and one didn't get a majority. So you can't work in a package at all and give it all away next time and see how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3929	Do you accept the position of the Kolegijum? To postpone and hold a debate with the BiH presidency and return the session to this. Let's see what's causing this condition, this consultation. I'm closing this point with this note. Ad.3. A report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international obligations for January-September 1999. I'm opening a debate at this point. Who's applying? We have a report from the Commission before the debate opens.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3930	Gentlemen, co-chairs and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, the Finance and Budget Commission, at its 5th session, discussed this item of the agenda and by majority of votes, 4 per to 1st decision not to accept the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for January-September 1999. Explanation. Comments have been made that it would be useful to keep material costs and investments separately, as prescribed by the Budget Act. That the funds are not at the level of the planned funds paid into the entity's budget, so no planned transfer of funds, i.e. subsidies made to the BiH joint bodies' budget, has been made. That the implementation of the budget was not carried out in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH, so it is proposed to carry out an audit of the spending of funds and funding methods. The funds allocated to the DKPs were spent more than planned by the Commission to most votes 4 to 2, proposing to provide a justification for the spending of planned funds, i.e. the spending of funds per DKP-38 of which was not in line with the Law on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget, because it is inappropriate in the world that this law is not respected, that the DKPs have spent what they have collected. So, he could have needed to carry out the obligations of a million marks, to collect 10 million marks, and to spend all 10 million marks, that is, he could have collected 500,000, but he needed a million marks, so that no one was refunding it, which means that it is inappropriate and, here, these are the basic indications of the debates that were conducted within the Commission, and we suggest that this report on the execution of the Budget is not accepted. That is the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3931	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. As MP Mrs. Muminagić comes out, I ask you to speed up this debate a little bit, and let us focus in this direction to deliver our remarks and suggestions in writing to the committees responsible. Since these are the blueprints and the drawings, I'm sorry, this is a suggestion. I'm sorry, you're right. This is the report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3932	At the 11th session of the House of Parliament held on 9 November, I mean a follow-up of 9 November, I asked two parliamentary questions from the Minister of Civil Affairs and Communications, and it was said whether all the revenues of the Budget of the BiH institution and international obligations are realized in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of Budgets and other regulations, and in particular whether the provisions of the Law on Administrative Taxes by which these fees are made by the budget of BiH. The second question was whether the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, which oversees financial and material accounting affairs, legally and meaningfully used the funds of all beneficiaries of the budget, whether the availability of funds by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly takes place in accordance with the regulations under the decisions of the competent authorities and the orders of the responsible persons of the budget users. I didn't get an answer to any of these questions until today. I thought it was the usual ignoring attitude towards parliamentary issues. However, this report assured me that it was an irresponsible relationship between this ministry and the implementation of the Budget Act and the Law on Budget Implementation in 1999, and then the Law on Administrative Taxes. Here's to explain what's going on. The BiH institutions' budget for 1999, in addition to revenues from the Federation of BiH and RS, the transfer of funds from their budgets, also planned other revenues of 25,579,900 KM. In the January-September period, according to the report, 19.2 million were reached on this item, to round up, or 75.8% of the projected funds, meaning that only this item of income is realised. Note, these are the revenues that are included in the Budget of BiH. These revenues stem from charged administrative fees, of which is only 7.6%, which is the part that was achieved on the territory of the Federation of BiH, paid in Budget, and 92.4% was kept on the DKP accounts that charged those fees. In the 1999 budget, all of these revenues are foreseen as budget revenues and are thus allocated on the flat-rate side. Therefore, if these revenues are not incomed in the budget, then there is no law on the execution of the Budget, and in addition, in Article 30. The administrative tax law states that these fees are payable to the DKP foreign account, which is transferred to the budget account, in accordance with the Payment Account Regulation, etc. According to Article 21 of this Law on Administrative 39 Taxes, the control of the collection of income and transfer to Budget is carried out by the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that is the first. Therefore, revenues were not made in accordance with the Law. Secondly, the report says that taxes were charged in the DKPs and that they amount to 17.9 million KM, that they are on DKP's accounts, so they were detained against the Law on Administrative Taxes and said these funds were used for wages, material costs and investment in the DKPs. I've been going over this expense side of the report, and I've seen that these funds are mostly used for material expenses and investments, as shown from the next one. The 1999 budget provides for DKPs, for salaries, 17.3 million, which means either not well planned, or that the DKPs were not filled in during the year, because only 3.6 million or 20.7% were spent on these purposes. However, for material costs and investments, the budget envisioned 6.2 million, rounding up, that they could speak faster, and in 9 months 14.3 million KM was spent. I have to say, I've come to the conclusion that they've spent exactly how much money they have left on the bills of chargeable administrative fees. So it's been spent almost two and a half times, or to be exact, 2.3 times as much as it's intended for the budget for this purpose. Even though he's a member of 6. The Budget Implementation Act stipulates that Budget users can use budgetary resources only for the purpose set by the Budget, and Article 9 states that expenditure amounts are maximum. There are other members who speak of violations, that a person who, a responsible person, who has allowed the funds to be spent above the intended amount, may be penalised, however, not to quote all these provisions of the Law. The report does not show whether or not someone has made decisions on re-routed funds from salaries to investment and material costs and for what reasons. Yesterday on the Administrative Commission, representatives of this ministry responded to us, so, well, the BiH Council of Ministers can make a decision later on. Therefore, there was no such decision. I'm talking about what's been done, because this is in nine months what's already been done, so that's before the decision is made. I have drawn from this conclusion that one offence, leaving funds in accounts, led to another offence, let those funds be spent to the end and were spent on what was not intended for the budget, or was intended, but was not foreseen in that amount. The report also does not see whether budget users have been granted funds in accordance with the Law and whether their use has been controlled. I will make this an example of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, because I have so asked the parliamentary question, since I had some indications on the Administrative Commission that the law does not apply, or that the funds are not used in accordance with the law. What happened? The funds provided for in the Budget for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly were used so that two-thirds were left to some part of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the Federation of BiH, and one-third was transferred to the part of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from RS, although we have one Parliamentary Assembly and we have one temporary Secretariat, so all employees here. I won't take the excuse that it's some kind of budget technique, it can be a budget technique, but one body decides on it, one is a user. That body has its own decisions based on which it operates and has its commanders. They weren't the same commanders here, and when the Administrative Commission asked to make an insight into the 40th part that's one-third so we could plan the Budget for next year, then we couldn't get that data, because the Civil Service wouldn't deliver it to us. We've asked the Administrative Commission twice for those data to be delivered to us. The administrative commission has been authorised by the BiH Parliament to prepare Budget and run these affairs, and therefore the parliamentary commission has asked for that information so that it can do its job. Therefore, we could ask the question, by whose decisions and orders these funds have been spent, and let the Ministry of Civil Affairs see if this is correct, as far as the accounts and the budgetary techniques are concerned, I would not enter into it. They can answer us, of course, whether they were controlling the spending of those funds, because we didn't get those answers. I'm not saying they're not, but here, they can answer us here. There are more questions here. One of the important issues, Nikola, the President of the Commission, has said that budget revenues are not realised from part of the funds that should have been transferred from entities and they are not quite achieved in a way that, according to the estimates we heard yesterday on the Budget Commission, these revenues will only be achieved by 66%, of course it affects the implementation of the Budget as a whole, and that is a question that can concern us and can be decisively affecting the budget for 2000. Because of this all I've said, we, the SDP Club MPs, cannot accept this report. We believe that, in accordance with Article 29. The budget law, which should be detailed, commission, controlled, or reviewed by budget revenues and expenditures for 1999, should be seen in addition to what I was talking about, of course, by other parts. I do not claim that only the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is financed in this way, there is the possibility that other joint institutions are financed in this way, but since I have no data, I should not establish it. If anyone knows, they can explain it to me. We should, when we adopt the Annual Report, it used to be called the end of the bill, and now, I think, the annual Budget report for 1999, as I recall, is scheduled somewhere for the first quarter of the year to run. We should get detailed information on everything I've talked about, and before this review is done, that's our request.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3933	Thank you very much. Who's on the phone?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3934	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Suada has expressed the position of the SDP Parliament Club and cited the basic reasons why we cannot support such a report. I just want, given that we believe that this is how it is done in every parliament in the world, this item of the agenda deserves a serious parliamentary debate for two reasons. The first reason is what is called transparency, to ensure that we see where it is spent, in what way, and another reason to make a plan of activity based on this report, what we do is that the problems that arise from this report do not repeat the following calendar year. A lot is said about what's called transparency, and my colleague already said that you have a lot of things here that suggest that the assessment of the transparency of the use of Budget, the budget, in the last year cannot be favourable. However, I would like to draw attention to two aspects of this report, which is, above all, what we expected the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, to come up with, some proposal on what 41 is expected of the BiH Parliament to adopt, i.e. what the relevant institutions, the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministry, are planning to do and whether they need the assistance of the BiH Parliament in overcoming some of the problems here. The first problem I want to draw attention to. It literally stands here in the Report, the commitments towards the BiH Budget, during this period, have not been carried out either by the Federation of BiH or by the RS. That sentence deserves a suggestion, what now? By adopting this report, we realize they didn't do it and nothing. Now let's move on. For us, it's like a principle that's unacceptable. What's worrying here, in a certain way, and on the other hand, some might say it's a success. It appears that the two entity officials for the transfer from entity to state budget are indeed coordinated. It is visible from the date of payment and transfer of funds and is even visible at the amount. Very interesting. This report says that both entities, imagine, have fulfilled 74.1% of their obligations. How precisely distributed we will not give to the Budget of BiH. 74.1% are payments to be exact. Both entities have paid six times in nine months, monthly amounts, from which it can be seen that monthly amounts are paid at intervals which are plus a minus any day, you even have the same days when they are paid. In nine months, six monthly tranches were given. It's very interesting, every tranche was exactly 74.1% of the commitment we made in the Budget that was here, which was adopted here a year ago. For us, it's, to say the least, unacceptable, not to say alarming. Also, for us it's alarming and I think it deserves attention and it deserves the action of the findings that literally stands here, that other than the income from the entities we see, here's how they were given, and the income of the first nine months. For the first nine months, 1,478 and 1,478,796 KM were collected, based on administrative fees charged in the Federation of BiH. What does that mean, if I get it right? This means that administrative fees from the RS area did not enter this budget. What does that mean? This means that OHR probably passed the Law, or declared a law that simply one entity does not implement. It's totally unacceptable for us, but for us, it's the most unacceptable thing to do in all of this is not to follow the suggestion of what we do from these findings. When you add to this information from the Foreign Ministry that BiH's debt to international organisations has accumulated on 7.5 million KM, true in real stamps, and when you see that this year, only 1.9 million are paid, it says in favour of us not planning to settle our obligations. These are just some of the reasons that I am obliged to mention, which is why we expect that, not only by not accepting this report, we charge the competent institutions to give us answers to the question of what they're going to do to make things that are written here overcome.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3935	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports, there's an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3936	Ladies and gentlemen, this particular discussion of Mr. Lagumdžija, who was now present, found that this information, or the report he called, had achieved its goal. For the first time, one ministry, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers, is in a position to transparently show what happened in '99. A year, until September of the month. We, however, have also made a quarterly and six-month and nine-month report, but, 42 here, only this nine-month-old came to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and it is good to discuss it this way. I think all delegates see what kind of problems we have in achieving the Budget, in fulfilling the Budget Act, and I think this is exactly how we can achieve what we're normally bound to, and that's about everybody to know what's going on. At least in such a situation, we will be able to be called, as many have been called, because of some bad things in the paper. That's exactly what the basic goal was and was, and that's exactly what it was to come here and say where the money was being spent and what was going on, what problems we had and to try and delegates to put in a situation, MPs to put in a situation to point out or help us solve some problems. The fact is that we've had problems with entities, and it's also the fact that there's a series of excuses that caused us to have problems with entities. You know that we had problems in the flow of funds, given that the economy and the RS and the Federation of BiH suffered and today suffers because of what was happening in the environment, so that some defaults in payments were, which was also understandable at one point. Furthermore, we have a big problem that is still present today, which is that both entities have not even brought their budgets into line with the Budget of BiH, and in this way, in their budgets they have provided for less funds than we have foreseen in our budget. The difference is approximately, for the Federation of BiH, around 7 million, while for RS it is about 3 million, which means that 10 million budget gaps already exist. And that's one of the reasons we've had our problems, but I still think with this information, with this report, we've achieved the purpose we wanted to achieve, which is to introduce you all to what's going on with BiH's finances. We will give the final report, someone said earlier, he will be, and he knows until when his legal obligation is, by then we will give it to him, and then MPs will be in a position to make an even more transparent decision and find out how we managed the BiH money. This proposal by Mr. Lagumdžija, I think it's more than good, and I think we can make some suggestions, but how to overcome certain problems that are raised in this information. The problem was, here I say again, but here we are not hiding, and we don't want to hide them, you better know, too. We're going to try to propose a short plan of measures for these 2-3 months as long as, let's call it, while this budget commitment of ours, that is, last year's commitments, let's see how we're going to establish a more correct relationship with entity ministries. I don't think there's gonna be any problem this year as it was last year, but here I'm saying, the basic goal is achieved and this discussion confirms it. I'd like so much for this, and I say we deliver the final report in time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3937	I'd just like two more sentences. I fully support what the minister said. It's two or three findings. I think the report on spending means that budget execution is very transparent for both users and charge and discharge. The funds are in the accounts. The funds were spent in accordance with the law. In one case, one item was broken, however, there is also in the Budget Law Article 11.2. that this can be resolved in a very simple, legal way, because of the problems that a BiH institution has been having at the moment. Transparency exists and will be even greater with a 12-month report, as we at the ministry are preparing a detailed report on the spending of funds per user. So each user will show the cost of funds, of material costs, of paying phone bills, fuel consumption, diaries, etc., I guess that's what a couple of MPs were alluding to today, possibly to 43 transparency. Which is why the synchronisation of payments coming from one and the other entities appears to be, for the simple reason that both entities have maintained the level of deposits from the 1998 Budget, and that is exactly 32% or 3% less compared to what the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has accepted as the Budget of BiH. Whether dates match, sometimes there were problems in the delay, however, that is the reason. As far as obligations to international organisations are concerned. We paid over 2 million of our liabilities last year, since one long period, three or four years, we didn't pay. In this year, we have so far paid about a million and nine hundred, we are scheduled to pay another 600 to 700,000 by the end of the year. I want to say that we are key obligations and all the key problems that we have had with key international organisations, starting with the UN and the International Labour Organisation, the International World Health Organization, Interpol and others, that we have paid the key obligations and that there is an agreement on and reprogramming the debt, and I think that we are one of the few UN member states who, regardless of the economic situation as it is, has carried out our obligations and so far with none of these international organisations have had key problems. As far as the items are concerned only the DKP network, I must tell you that there have been stories here. However, if you look at exactly what amount of funds was spent, the DKP network was supposed to get 23.6 million for the first nine months after the budget and spend 23.6 million for its operation, and they spent, according to the report and our 22 million. However, there is a difference in the item provided for in the salary and item provided for for for material costs. However, this was due to the still incomplete completion of the DKP network in the way it was supposed to be and how it was agreed in the 6th or 7th month, even I think later, so that one part of the costs went to so-called. contracts on work and engagement from time to time, one number of users. All the funds achieved as income are very transparent. What has been achieved in BiH is very transparent, it is on the bill, it is necessary to make a decision on their use. What was achieved in the DKP network, they simply received less funds from the Budget, and these funds were used very transparently, I must say, in the central account in Munich, so that they could function. As for the detailed report, we just have to remember when the Administrative Tax Act was passed, meaning much later than the implementation of this budget, and that's simply why in the first nine months, Budget functioned the way it worked. The budget law, i.e. administrative fees, was passed much, much later.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3938	Dear colleagues, I will not repeat what my colleague Suada said, but I must comment in some way on these findings that claim that this is quite a transparent report regarding the Budget. Please, I can't argue that these figures are like this or not, I even believe that they are like this, but when you say the means of pay and the money for material costs, or just the means for wages, and the means for material costs and investments, then, in my opinion, transparency would mean saying how many employees, which are wages, which are investments, in which they are realised, to say, in some ways, which are material costs, etc. That would then be some transparency to the end and 44, then we could be quite correct about all of this. I have to tell you that I come from a canton where the financial police, if you gave her this report, would ask for a lot more paper, and I don't know how to implement a report like this. You'd have to prove deep and fat each of these items the way I'm presenting it here in some way. So I would ask you to understand that we in the SDP cannot accept that this is transparent in the way it is given, in order for transparency to involve much more data, related to each individual item and the way it is spent. The items related to the DKPs and the fact that the funds were kept in the DKP accounts, did not enter the budget the way it should have been, that is, what they would say, a story for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3939	I have no intention of plowing. My intention wasn't to make any controversy between us, but I want at least those laws we're making to enforce. We are the Law on Administrative Taxes, we did not bring it in, declared by the High Representative, published in the Official Journal on 2 September, but we previously passed the Budget Act and made these administrative fees available by that law. Therefore, we once said by law that these taxes were budget revenues. Whoever was in charge of controlling the execution of the Budget was obliged, regardless of the Administrative Tax Act, to achieve these fees being the revenue of the Budget. They're here for the Bdžet's income only visible. I didn't want to go into that detail, but I'm taking the right to know something about Budget. They are here only the apparent revenues of the budget, because they were left to them as the incomes of the DKP, and it is estimated that these are their expenditures. It's a technique that can be executed, but they must be budget revenues. It doesn't matter if they're transferred to the account. Why am I saying this? Because no one has the right to make those revenues available on their own terms, because expenditures are provided for in the budget, no matter where revenue comes from. The cost item of material investment costs is 2.3 times higher. The Tuzlan Canton is now conducting a process for this, not only because of it, but one reason is that the funds have been spent beyond what is provided for in the Budget. I'm saying this because we're about to bring a new Budget. We have to stop this practice, not to get into a situation where we, as MPs, are going to initiate court proceedings, and so can we. So I also want to talk about this illegal spending. We have passed the Law on the execution of the Budget. I am giving my suggestions to my colleagues from the Council of Ministers to read well, to see what these items of the law have been broken, that I am not keeping the whole Parliament now. We would have to improve the Law on the execution of the Budget, free us of the BiH Treasury Act if it will not be implemented. He must be executed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3940	I think this debate on the 1999 Budget Report is the introduction of a debate on the Budget for 2000 years. This is an introduction, a sort of debate and a kind of introduction about how we're going to discuss Budget for next year. The only thing that has been asked of all the questions that the MPs have asked, and on which Mr. Ašanin, by circumstances, has not given any qualification, nor has his deputy, or Deputy 45 Mr. Rečica, is the question of income from collecting under the Law on Administrative Taxes. Namely, it says here that revenues of 1,478,000 KM were made for the first 9 months, with administrative fees charged in the Federation of BiH. I would like to ask very directly, if possible before this final report, what is the reason why administrative fees in Budget are only being realised from the territory of one entity, or, I would like to point again to what I was talking about a few months ago, which is one encouragement from the BiH Council of Ministers in finding a way for so-called. Direct financing of BiH, which is the BiH institution. I think the way in which Budžet was executed as said by the entity, the entity's injunction, i.e. the constant waiting, delay and arrangement, then the various others, at the very least, of the controversial things that Mrs Muminagić spoke of, say that perhaps it should turn more radically towards the possible way of financing Budžet BiH, so-called. By means of direct funding, and I would like to ask Mr. Ašanin, given that he has come forward to comment on this sentence on the collection of administrative taxis only from the field of one entity.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3941	I suggest ministers wait for two more MPs, they have something to say, so maybe there'll be a better answer package.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3942	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to contribute a little bit to making this issue a taxi, an administrative taxi from the Federation of BiH and RS clearer. You know it's about the Law on Administrative Taxes for those fees charged to joint institutions in the country and abroad. Since BiH's central institutions are predominantly located in the Federation of BiH or 100% located in the Federation of BiH, it is logical that the location of the collection of administrative fees on this basis will be the Federation of BiH, and therefore I ask you not to open some dilemmas that may be given some other political calling. So, it does not avoid the RS paying part of the taxis that belong to the joint institutions, but rather those, unfortunately, are not located in RS and that is what Nikola Špirić was up for here when he said that the auditor's office of the institution was in Banja Luka, so when we held the debate the way we were conducting. The moment you allow BiH institutions' headquarters to be in Banja Luka and Mostar, then you will have the location of those taxis in the RS entity, Mostar is in the Federation of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3943	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a document in front of us that clearly states that this is a report on the achievement of income, on the achievement of the budget for January and September. To look for a detailed report in this report that needs to be filed with an annual report with a final account, etc., I think it is unacceptable, because this report serves us, as someone said before me, simply as a starting basis for the debate and adoption of Budget for next year to give the right grades. Secondly, I would pray that when both the income and the expenditure side are observed, it is seen to be balanced and that globally, there are far better achievements than from the point of view of 46 Budgets in 1998. If you remember how we had a report, how many debts under the 1998 budget, especially a taxi to international organisations and other institutions, then here we can see that that's enough, to use one inappropriate word, ironed and that's where one recovery is done. Another thing that is also difficult here and I thought about talking about, which is the problem of funding from the budget of the RS and the Budget of the Federation of BiH. When we were bringing this budget, I was just discussing that in the budget of the RS, which has already been passed, not the amount of funds we've brought here, but that it's planned for 3 million marks less and that we don't have the right to adopt more than expected. Unfortunately, so was the Federation of BiH for 7 million, and then when we discussed it, it was not appreciated, simply with the voting machine, we brought what we brought and we have the realization that we had. Therefore, we must also hear about what is happening in the Federation of BiH, what is happening in the RS, and on the basis of this, make certain calculations and on this basis extend what can be financed. I only resent that something should be done in some items that have really been exceeded as material costs in the DKPs. There is an institution of budget rebalancing, etc., in order to fit the legal regulations that we have brought from the point of view of the implementation of the Budget, it must be clearly brought before Parliament, which someone said, transparently, and that, if necessary, the rebalancing of the Budget where certain procedures had to be carried out which could not be planned at the beginning of the year, which should have been achieved. In that sense, I suggest that this be just one basis for us to discuss the budget for 2000, and that all these remarks we have now made must find their place in making the final bill for 1999, which will clearly show what we are looking for today to see. I think now, on the basis of nine months, we're looking for all that data, we're going back, it's pointless when in two months we're going to discuss the same material, but one detailed, comprehensive, because it's practically not a financial year closed for this year. So I would, in that sense, accept this report with these remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3944	I would like to thank Mr. Špirić for answering Mr. Kadić's question in full, that's really true and that's really an explanation. I must tell you that only one part of the joint bodies, that is part of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, has its head office in RS, that is, in the premises of the Serbian Sarajevo, everything else is located in the areas of the Federation of BiH and it is no wonder that the fees, the item of the administrative fees charged, are from the Federation of BiH and not from the RS. I think that's the most correct answer Mr. Špirić gave. As for the questions raised by Mrs Muminagić, I think her questions are essentially in place and I think her questions can help draw up a final report. However, I deliberately did not want to get into specific problems earlier, you know, the question was just before why the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is given one-third here, two-thirds here. He's got a lot of problems. We cannot, overnight, fully form the 47 budget system as we all imagine it and what it's supposed to be. After all, here you have also had a proposal on the Treasury, and it may be a certain upgrade, if it comes to the establishment of the Treasury, and it may work even better than the Budget that worked in 1999. He's got a lot of problems. We have workers in the foreign ministry, in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that are registered in the RS area and there is a contribution to be paid, and there is a tax to be paid. We also have workers in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the foreign ministry and other joint institutions registered in the Federation of BiH, and that is where taxes and contributions and everything else are to be paid. As a matter of fact, we have a technical problem and we are forced to separate the funds that we are referring to at certain times, but I am also saying that Mrs. Muminagić with her questions can only help us to remove, or Mr. Divković, to remove some of the shortcomings that are present and that we do not hide at all. After all, that's why we came out with this information so that you, too, can point out, if we have some mistakes, to point out mistakes, to see, we're wiser together, and we can make it easier to make it right. So, I would ask you to really consider this, someone said earlier, as a very good starting point, that later we do what will be, which will specify everything we need to specify in Budget, and if we went to it, Mr. Divković, this wouldn't be three papers, this would be the whole book, you know very well what the Budget looks like, what the Report looks like. Therefore, the financial police working in the canton should also work in the canton, and when we give the final report, it will be significantly wider and significantly larger and will not be on three sides. I say again, this is just that you have the opportunity to follow through the year what we're doing and this was an initiative, there was no concrete constitutional obligation here. We are obliged to submit an annual report under the Constitution or at the request of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH or of another authorised person, the request did not come from anyone. We simply wanted to meet the BiH Parliamentary Assembly ourselves, to get to know the public that, with a cut of nine months, or with a cut of three months or six months, they are in progress and to see what is happening in the Budget of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3945	Lagumdžija, what is it, is it a replica? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3946	I think it is best that you call it a replica for the very simple reason that my colleague Špirić referred to what I was saying, however, since the minister announced that he would also give his clarifications in response to the MP's question, I was waiting for Mr. Minister to see that he was replicating Mr. Špirić, however, since he did not, I am obliged to draw attention to something that I, unfortunately, have now heard from Mr. Minister. We know that central institutions are mostly located in the territory of the Federation of BiH. We know perfectly clearly, if we were to ask ourselves, a different distribution would be done. No, it wouldn't be all of it, but, Mr. Špirić, we can talk about it if you put it on the agenda. I believe that tomorrow, when the Border Service is established, and many other institutions, there will then be more income to be made in a territory other than the Federation of BiH and that, by nature of things, a good part of the central institutions called the Border Service will, conditionally, be on another territory except federal territory. So that's going to change that relationship. However, my remarks were on the fact that the amount of 1,478,000 administrative 48 taxis was charged in the Federation of BiH as opposed to 0 in RS. If there were no institutions in the RS, then that zero would be logical. However, on the Commission you chair, the members of the Commission are informed that somewhere around 90 to 100,000, correct me, because we have not received written material about it, has been charged in institutions located in RS territory. Well, you see, that's not there. If it's 10 marks, it has to be in the budget. So it's 10, not if it's 100.010 marks. Our remarks refer to the principle, not the number, because unfortunately, I don't know the figures except those that are given to us on the straw. I think Mr. Rakić really pointed out the right thing when he talked about not being in the entity budget, that it wasn't planned as much as planned, it was logical then. To seek the rebalancing of the entity's budget or to seek what is normal in this situation, to reach simply for our constitutional powers, if we have made such a demand party, then to define the original revenues for the Budget BiH that would settle what cannot be settled from the entity budgets. It's unserious to make something like this. That is why we are against this report in the hope that what has been said so far will be like a lesson and a lesson to soon get something that will be a concrete action, not a acceptance like this and a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3947	We're gonna put the ball down, and we need to get this thing straight. The budget, I don't know, is the most important thing in the American Congress. At least it should be an important thing in Parliament. Mr. Špirić gave me the answer, and Mr. Ašanin agreed with Mr. Špirić's reply, in principle, despite the fact that it is not clear to me that one income is possible to be unknowable, 1.4 million, and the other 0. I came up with information a little later, this is for the first nine months, and since the Law on Administrative Taxes was declared in September, at the end of the fiscal year, this financial year, there will probably be income from what is termologically marked as the entity's area here. However, my question is now referred differently to Mr. Minister Ašanin. Why do administrative fees under the Law on Administrative Taxes, as the direct income of the Budget of BiH, use terminology from the area of this or that entity? That's an additional question. Is it in accordance with the law and if it is, OK, and if it isn't, then it's not termologically used as so-called. indirect income that goes from one entity to the state, rather than direct revenue from the State under the Law on Administrative Taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3948	I think Mr. Kadić is right and I think we should make it right and we will make it right and in the future there will be BiH, there will be no entities. I think you're absolutely right, the law is BiH. I don't need to answer to Mr. Lagumdžija. Here's what Mr. Kadić insisted on, I think it's an integral part of the answer to be given to Mr. Lagumdžija. However, I have to tell you that some of the information you have at your disposal, I really don't have it, that someone has charged 100,000 in the RS area, and that there are none, I'll do it urgently, and it's really amazing information for me that you gave, and right now, Mr. Špirić, if he gave that information, I'm calling him to tell him where he got the information, but I'm going to give him a warrant tomorrow, but you can get the information from the press, but I promise to give the warrant right away to check it out, and this assembly will be informed about it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3949	I would ask, ladies and gentlemen, Ašanin the name of Mr. Špirić is not used where it cannot be used objectively, because I did not give such information at all, but representatives of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, headed by Mr. Marko Ašanin. Since it's not written in this material, and it doesn't exist for me, it's not information, it's some oral statement, etc. It's another thing. I have to answer to Mr. Zlatko that the BiH Border Police Act will not impose charges in the DKPs, any donations and all that concerning the work of the DKPs, and I am convinced if, God Bog, what control would enter the DKPs, that no single dinar of credit and donor funds would ever enter BiH again. Thank you very much, and this will not be settled by the Border Service Act.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3950	In order to avoid misinformation, on my question at the Finance Commission and Budget, I am responsible for the fees charged, about 94,000 KM in the RS area in the proceedings before the BiH institutions, not being paid to the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3951	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I would only try to draw attention to the reason why the BiH Council of Ministers prepared this information, because it is known that this information is in 9 months and is not an integral part of the work programme of the BiH Parliament. The Council prepared this information for two reasons. The first reason is to set up the BiH budget and in this we fight with ourselves and fight with others. We fight with ourselves to establish a budget. Five people are working on the Budget, which was still untouchable to us at the BiH Council of Ministers at the beginning of the year. And then, when we tried to settle the revenues coming from the entity and made, according to our obligations by standing by arrangement with the IMF and entities, the agreement for last year was not respected. Despite the fact that both Mr. Živalj and Mr. Valentin Ćorić and Mr. Nudžeim Rečica are MPs in the Federal Parliament and despite the fact that the Federal Government and the Federal Parliament also have representatives in this parliament, as Mr. Rakić said, the budgets were not adopted in the same text, but it is the same thing as Mr. Lagumdžija said, they were not adopted in the same text, and therefore, unfortunately, the BiH Council of Ministers sought to provoke this information to avoid coming into the same situation for the following year, and unfortunately we came. The latest IMF letter, which arrived before the end of the year, since it seems to remain the only means left for both the Council of Ministers and the IMF to agree on these things, states that entities have again failed to agree in their proposals this year with the BiH Budget as agreed under the stand by the arrangement. That's it. This time entities have raised their proposals to last year's level, and our agreement with the IMF is 10% increase compared to what we planned last year as a revenue side. For this reason, the BiH Council of Ministers sent this information to say that it is one reason to point to this matter before adopting an entity budget and not to repeat it this year and to have a balanced and harmonised case. The fact is that 50 of us asked the IMF to initiate the rebalance of either the BiH budget or the entity budgets and to agree with each other. The promise was from the IMF that entity budgets would rise to BiH level and that the gaps would be paid. Obviously, because of the problems in the entity budgets, it wasn't done this year. I would therefore appeal to both political parties and coalitions who have their own representatives, both in the Federal and in the parliament of the RS, that, when it comes to financing joint institutions, the Budgets should pay attention to those items with entity budgets on the spending side being equal to those for which they have raised hands and coalitions in the BiH Parliament, on the revenue side when it comes to the financing of joint institutions. Another reason is in relation to entities, the issue of communication, the question of these dates, or how to spend money on the BiH budget. I used the term "expension" because colleagues in the resolution ministry have tried countless times to reach finance ministers or other persons to secure these payments. Unfortunately, I will personally insist that in this next review stand by arrangement the same automation and payment obligations to the state as the external debt service automation has been installed. In this way, I think the joint institutions have been brought into an unequal position. However, this is both saying that there is obviously no willingness, except for that political, level and force that advocates original incomes, obviously there is no willingness to do this financing of joint institutions correctly, and, behold, I have already mentioned two reasons why this is so. Another reason why the BiH Council of Ministers asked for this information to be prepared is to put it into office as the Administrative Tax Act. You know that this parliament did not accept the law, although I am behind this pay phone, along with my colleagues from the BiH Council of Ministers, insisted that the law is one of the ways that this, conditionalally said deviation, or means of collecting income, of BiH's own income, should be placed under one full control. After the publication of this law in the Official Journal, which was declared by the High Representative, the BiH Council of Ministers gave the order on payment accounts and the publication of that order, it should practically achieve the ultimate objective of administrative fees that they all have the character of income as Mrs Muminagić said, therefore, direct budget income, and then in the second phase of the cost to be paid back to the users of the Budget, including those who collected those revenues. In this context, it was also the intention of the BiH Council of Ministers to put these two key, to say so, groups of issues here to the BiH Parliament and to gain support from this parliament in insisting on bringing these things into order. As far as the expenditure side is concerned, I deeply believe that this parliament will also support the BiH presidency's proposal, to appoint auditors at the level of BiH, who, according to their final account for the past year, will make an insight into the expenditure side and present to Parliament, is their obligation under the Law on Audition, Purpose and Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for the past year.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3952	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3953	Mr. Chairman, this is going to be a bit of a weird replica, you know. Strange by what I'm saying is that I completely agree with Mr. Tomić in the qualification of this material because he, and I've counted correctly, has six times repeated that this is information. We have a material called the Budget Implementation Report. Mr Tomić repeated six times in his statement that this is the Information on the Implementation of the Budget and if this is the Information, then we know that we are pleading on the Information. Then we can talk about how complete it is or not in other ways than how it has been reported.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3954	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we can conclude from the debate so far that the BiH state should have its revenues. It's about harmonisation, it's about automatic payment, so there's no delay, so it doesn't come to these situations, etc. I think this parliament should support the request of some of us who are equal to three years old, that BiH as a state has its revenues except for those we have today. It's not normal for one country to have no direct income, but to be alimony in this way by entities. Without that, we won't be able to. It's only a matter of when we're gonna make it happen. Since this is where it's spoken, slightly politicized, the issue of the Border Service. Can't state without the Border Service, can't do without a legal system, can't do without solving property issues at the state level. That's why we raised all these questions three years ago. We'll have the Border Service. We could've been in a much better situation two years ago. We will have a legal system, the Court of BiH, very quickly, we could have it two or three years ago, in favour of all BiH citizens. Let us also think about these direct revenues and all these problems will be practically eliminated by the fact that the BiH state, like any state, will have its direct revenues. Now it shows an opportunity, by establishing the Border Service, by establishing normal customs protection. If we miss it now, we'll wait two or three years to do one necessary job. That doesn't suit anyone, not one nation, not one political party. The BiH state should have its direct income. Unfortunately, when we asked for it, as is the case with the Border Service, with the reform of the legal system, etc., three years ago there was not enough support on both domestic and international terms, in this case, to be very specific, from the World Bank. They later admitted that mistake. Let this parliament be constructive. The BiH states need direct income and it is for the benefit of all of us. It's up to us whether we do it now or in a month or three years.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3955	Dear gentlemen, I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. You could have raised your hand earlier, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3956	I ask you, Mr. Chairman, that all MPs are worth the same to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3957	Don't beg me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3958	Discussing the execution of Budžet, and relying on the original revenues that are nowhere in the BiH Constitution, is not holding a political burden, what should be done past the constitution. No one has the right, nor does the co-chair, nor does Mr Silajdžić, until the constitution changes. The procedure for changing the Constitution knows what it is. So please, let's discuss the agenda once.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3959	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3960	If you remember correctly, this same answer was on demand that we have the Border Service, the exact same, outside the Constitution, no constitutional basis. The same answer we had for reforming the legal system, no constitutional basis. The same answer we had for the state-level privatisation, so today we have it the way we have it. Let's get past some narrow frames. Of course there's a constitutional basis for this, of course there is, and there will be, the moment you ask for it, we'll explain it. If you look at the 1997 proposals we made on the Border Service, on revenue, etc., I'm not counting now. Among those 140 laws for BiH, you will find an explanation and constitutional basis for this. It is not constructive and it is not in the interest of any BiH citizen to work like this, believe me. Don't say again there's no constitutional basis, so let's hear today that everyone agrees to have a constitutional basis, it's just a question of what the border service is like. Who does that serve? Those who use what we don't have established limits, so we don't have health care properly, so we don't have schooling properly, etc. It has a constitutional basis. There's a need for everything there is to be no constitutional basis, the need for citizens. I'm telling you there is. You claimed here for this speaker that there is no constitutional basis for reforming the legal system, that there is nothing to be done at the state level, that there is no basis for the Border Service, is there, that there is no basis for privatisation. For a year and a half, I said there was, that it would eventually turn out to be. I thank Ambassador Tokić. Should I repeat what I was looking for three years ago? You don't have to. I'd like to ask my colleagues, we here, let us do something here for ourselves. Here, all that there's no constitutional basis, so you should, of course. Look at the problems we have because we're waiting for the entity to do this. You know the damages that are caused by this and all that there is no constitutional basis, there is a need. Since it has a constitutional basis, it cannot be justified from any side. It's only a shame for every citizen, no matter who he is or where he lives. We need it and it has a constitutional basis and what to put it off. To what shall we wait a year and a half, two to confess after that, as we recognize today, that there is a service for the Border Service. When I first mentioned it was said it was outside the Constitution, there is no constitutional basis. It's in Article 1. The constitution exists, etc. Now I'm not talking, we've read the Constitution here many times in front of the cameras, and I don't think that's necessary and let us work constructively for the benefit of the citizens of BiH. No one can convince me that it is against the interest of the BiH citizens that we do not have the Border Service, that we do not have direct revenues. These direct revenues help everyone. I don't know in which way you could more than 53 underline that need to normalise the work of this body and do what all BiH citizens expect us to do.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3961	I'm sorry, I had no intention of replicating. I really didn't have a chance as Mr. Silajdžić to be in Dayton and to participate in the creation and signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement that created BiH as it is. I'm also not saying it's an ideal solution. It is not my fault that it must now be lamented that in a document made by people for such BiH there are no opportunities that are currently needed, but I only advocate a normal procedure. If this document becomes a narrow throat for BiH's development, and every time we see it becomes, then there are procedures or adjustments or changes. Gentlemen, it is not good for every representative council to reach out for changes to the Constitution or work unconstitutional, because how many times have the Constitution of the United States, France, etc. This doesn't seem to mean anything to us. I swore. Until it changes, this is a sacred letter, Bog damn it. Now the creators of this suddenly in front of the public say there is a need. There's a need, but it can't go past...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3962	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in fact, we have provided something we haven't had in a long time, a parliamentary debate on a single document that treats the report on the execution of the Budget of the BiH institutions, in a way that we've never had in the BiH Parliament before. I don't remember talking to you like this. Given that Minister Ašanin was very precise in the response he gave to Mr Kadić that he would correct that part of the report concerning the fact that it was not about the specific revenues of the entity, but about the original revenues of BiH in accordance with the administrative tax laws, I thought there was a turning point in relations between the BiH Parliament and those responsible for submitting such information or reports. I think Mr. Tomić was right when he took this under information and thus made it easier for us to decide in one way that could be about like this. Since all the remarks made by MPs have been accepted by Mr Ašanin, Mr Tomić, it seems most rational for these remarks, commitments, to be incorporated into a 12-month report and thus to become, as I would say, a rule on reporting on the budget by the BiH Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliament itself. On the other hand, the discussion in another way about this report confirms that we are getting institutions that feel responsible for the BiH Parliament's body being in the process of what the institution is doing. I must say that there is a three-month and six-month statement and now a nine-month report creates a different climate between this body called the ministry, namely the Council of Ministers of BiH and Parliament, and it is my suggestion that we could concentrate on a discussion concerning the draft budget and the call by the Council of Ministers of BiH. Let's ask the next question, can many discussions be the conclusion, I am ready to formulate it with the other MPs, and to make a statement about it, if necessary. To draw attention to the fact that the BiH Parliament could not accept either the Report or the New Budget Draft, unless the BiH Parliament respected both the RS and the Federation of BiH what is called the harmonised principles, based on the relations agreed? And how did Mr. Tomić explain it? That's the other side of the medal. The key event today is that we are all agreed that the original revenues of the BiH Council of Ministers, in BiH, are a basic 54 basis for the continuation of BiH's budget. That is why I would suggest we support the position to make statements by the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers concerning MPs' demands, in fact, binding on the BiH Council of Ministers for a 12-month report. It's the only way we can get past this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3963	I had a replica of Mr. Tomić and Mr. Špirić's repetition, the first time he spoke. For Tomić, the report is foreseen in the BiH Parliament's operational plan, together with a review of the Budget, and it is not logical that without such a report we are considering the Budget. So we didn't force him, and I wouldn't call him with information, I'd call him what you called him, and it's your duty to file that report. As for what Mr. Špirić was saying, I think it's very easy, or we easily tend to have something that has no constitutional basis, or that there is, if something suits us or doesn't suit us. We have passed the Law on Administrative Taxes as the original income based on the Constitution. Here, I'll read you a member of that constitution on the basis of which we brought it. We've been having a fat debate here, and that's what this administrative committee of ours found. In the financial chapter, in Article 8, it is said that I am not reading everything, but "the Federation of BiH will provide two-thirds, and the RS one-third of the revenue needed for the budget, unless the revenues are collected in the way that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly established them," at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the mandate, is said to decide on sources, sources I stress, and the amount of funds for the BiH institutions' work, for BiH's international obligations. That means we can, only if there's political will, do it. We can, and I had an intention to talk about it at the budget, but as soon as the debate started, I wanted to point out what the real incomes we're about to enroll are that the entities are going to give us. We have to take care of that. We'll get into a situation so we can't execute the Budget. We don't do full capacity now, that's another question. This report isn't the final report on Budget, so I didn't want to talk about it. So this is my replica that the constitutional basis exists, if it has political will.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3964	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few things about Mr. Silajdžić's discussion. Mr Silajdžić calls for the constructive work of this parliament and for us to constructively make decisions and certain documents to be made. However, the situation in practice is quite different. Whenever we enter some constructive debates, then Mr Silajdžić comes out with some of his programmes, with some sighting of BiH, which he propagated and for which he makes various programs, various books and based on which he even makes statements, as he gave on the PROMO Tuzli in the spring or will not be or will make BiH the way it should be. Even then, he said an ugly thing, where he was warned about it, as long as BiH is like this, he would never get donations, investment funds and other things, and even I wouldn't give them for BiH like this. I have to say it here simply because it's a destructive work. Whenever we enter what we need to do, to bring the ball in, to express ourselves sportingly, to the country, that we can normally discuss certain things and bring and live what needs to be brought to life, every time we enter into a debate, which becomes counterproductive and that only brings one distraction into all of this. 55 We have now debated information. Unfortunately, it's called the report. It's Information. We have to accept that this is Information and once again enters a debate that goes beyond the one about the revision of the Dayton Agreement, about the revision of all that needs to be revised according to the scale of certain people. Therefore, to do so and to try to behave in such a way, and to invite us to co-operation, we think that at least it is incorrect. I've discussed it once, and I'll do it again. Has Mr Silajdžić, as co-chair, ever called on the presidents of the entity government, tried to sit with them to agree, that what the Constitution defined that could be transferred to common bodies, with the consent of the entities, to see what is disturbing, to see how we can make some progress in BiH. Unfortunately, it's never been done. There is always a kitchen that prepares certain documents, pushes 140 laws, as you just said, etc. and thus blinds the people of this BiH about one win if it is done or not done. He's discussing the Border Service. Say, please, what did you do in the Federation of BiH about the Border Service? Cantonal police are doing you border service. I went through Neum this summer. There are no customs or police on the Bosnian side, only on the Croatian side, and you ask certain questions. You have done nothing in the Federation of BiH, and what can you not do in the Federation of BiH, everything needs to be raised to BiH level, to be done at BiH level, whose interest is that? What's that? What concepts are these? Such concepts that differ from the Constitution, from what is agreed in Dayton, to enough that we cannot work in such a way or have mutual trust that we can work properly. We're ready to constantly trick something, something abuse it, etc. And then he says why we're forced to control each other. Because we don't trust each other, and we keep breaking out the way we step out. I'm sorry I've been so long. I had no intention, but really from that report by the BiH Council of Ministers and the referendums, or the correlats, Mr Silajdžić on the work of the BiH Council of Ministers that led us to debate, so it is today and many times and I do not agree with that, and I do not think we should do so. We need to do what needs to be done on the agenda, and we need to stay there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3965	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to take the right not to talk about the agenda point, because they've taken it right from before. Since it's repeated more often, I really have to react this time. My reaction concerns Mr Silajdžić, co-chair of the BiH Council of Ministers. A colleague Vito Rakić stole a few sentences from me, but I still need to highlight a few things. Namely, there are people in BiH who are strangling BiH and the people of BiH, taking the right to love BiH more than anyone else. I don't give that right to anyone. I will now admit that I loved both the former Yugoslavia and the former BiH, but the fact is that there is neither former Yugoslavia nor former BiH. I am here to stand up for the one BiH whose foundation is, the new BiH whose foundation has been hit in Dayton and whose constitution is signed in Dayton. Everything else is against BiH. It's not true that today, why am I saying all this? It's a tenentious thing to do. To show in the presence of the international community that some of the efforts that lasted once and a half three years, behold, have finally been proven right. First of all, what's true doesn't have to prove that much time. Basically, what's this all about? Simply by replacing thesis, it comes to conclusions. We have today found and one of those who voted for the Law has found that there is no constitutional basis in what it says. There was an intensities to satisfy the constitutional basis. There are certainly many needs in BiH that can be undermined under constitutional law, but not in the way 56 do it. Many things, other than those ten that are taxed in the BiH Constitution, can be the subject of laws that are passed here, but if constitutional procedures are followed and previous consents are reached in order to obtain it. On purpose, or on purpose, these procedures are being skipped, I beg you, and this is how BiH is being strangled. I repeat once again the strangulation of BiH. It would be really good if it stopped. What I would really like to congratulate Mr Silajdžić on, is that he is persistent in those efforts to achieve "short-term" some successes, which is lobbying with the international community. I'm going to come up with only one of the laws he mentioned, that he also said, here it was not a constitutional basis, so it proved to have, it's the Privatisation Act. We had a letter, received by RS Prime Minister Dodik, from OHR, that the constitutional basis, at the moment, for the privatisation law at BiH level does not exist. I have that letter in my archive now. Mr Silajdžić was more successful in convincing the same high representative's office that there is a House of Peoples, to convince them that they should vote for it. That's what success is all about. I assure you, I assure you that this success is short-term and I call on you all to return here to the Assembly in the BiH frameworks, within the competence of the two entities to discuss and create a constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3966	Well, come on, this goes beyond measure. The gentleman says short... is there me?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3967	I don't know who turned down this Border Service Act today, if we're talking about replacing thesis. I voted for him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3968	We're talking about the execution of the Budget, MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3969	I think it's in a tight relationship. Here, you see how much harder I can replace myself successfully, and now I'm asking you gentlemen, because this is a real debate, and in me you've always had an open conversation. The strangulation of BiH began in '92. The year has continued to this day. You know, here, here, as you can see, we have... The law on privatisation in an entity called RS, in the form that existed, discriminated against 860,000 people quite openly. The international community now acknowledges that. What incompetent people who couldn't see it or who didn't care about it were doing in the international community, that's another thing. Are we going to have a review, gentlemen, of privatisation, whether we are going that way, as will be the privatisation review in Croatia, most likely we will. The consequence is that in 1997, it was not for real privatisation at the state level and for restitution, too, enough support on the domestic scale, gentlemen. I don't know which parties existed three years ago, or on a domestic basis, or on an international basis. Explain to me how such measures, anti-discrimination measures, the measures that contribute to the budget and the improvement of BiH, the measures that place BiH in normal countries, how does this strangle BiH? BiH is not 57 in favour of BiH citizens. We want a normal country in which BiH citizens will normally live. We can't do this without legislation and without normal institutions. We won't be able to do it, it's not a victory or anyone's success. It's a victory for all of us if we have boundaries. For every normal citizen of BiH, and that is why I am so persistent in it, and I will continue to work as hard as I can and where I am already in that direction. I believe it is in favour of every BiH citizen. Do you know how many wood trucks come out today, with construction cuts and uncircumcised outside today, whose benefit it is, and whose damage it is to?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3970	I'm taking the opportunity to replicate Mr. Silajdžić. I'm asking you to do a few things... I don't know where the woods are, who's driving, where's he driving, let's hear more who drove her, and where did he take her, these are some new milk? The gentleman says it's driving. I knew he thought he was driving across the Drina. The rafts were over the Drina before this and that war, but please don't replace the thesis. There's talk here, I voted for something. I, gentlemen, would never boast that I voted for something contrary to the Constitution, and there is a constitutional basis in this constitution to do so. Don't say we didn't vote anything. It is not allowed to vote in accordance with the Constitution what we think should be voted on. Do not, I ask you, think of someone here and deceive the public of BiH, that here there will be prosperity when the Constitution is violated, bring something contrary to the Constitution, seeking and calling on stronger forces to do so outside the people and citizens of BiH. I want to make a deal and bring it all together. Don't take care of my birthplace, or I'll take care of yours. We were all born here and no one has the right to say that he loves BiH more than I do, and neither do I. Please understand, sir, it's a five, I think it is both the RS and the Federation of BiH is BiH, it's all BiH. Understand, this is a modified BiH, which is thus recognised internationally and do not look for anything that would go back and lead this people into tragedy.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3971	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, would be long to list all the irregularities made by the most responsible people today in this parliamentary session. There have been dozens of discussions here today that have gone out of boundless love for BiH, out of boundless love for the peoples of all constitutionalities and those who are not constitutional, about the extraordinary commitment and zeal of the College, this earlier summons of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and nothing has been done. Here ready to go unconscious to confront and the moment you ask a question of responsibility, is someone ready to answer for the effect that nothing has been done today, no, it's not ready. BiH is dying of this love for BiH, Mr. Silajdžić, Mr. Banjac, Mr. Rakić. You have been sitting together at the BiH Council of Ministers for 3.5 years, the ones Silajdžić likes to mention, and now has been reducing to a year and a half lately. Don't, stay saying that since 1997, but stay away from working on that plan for a day, because if you were working today, it would be completely different and responsible. BiH began to be strangled in 1990. Bosnia will not allow it to be drowned, and it does not depend on the love of Špirić, neither on the love of Banjac, Skopljak, Genjac, as it did not previously depend on the Momčilo Krajišnik, or on Avdo Čampara, nor on Mariofil Ljubić. They were just passing people and nothing was getting better. I can promise an audit on behalf of the SDP. We can promise an audit of such behaviour and 58 responsibilities to be expressed in the budget after the budget is carried out, where there is an indication that the same political option, the same CD coalition, 74%. Mr. Messenger Bičakčić is responsible here. Don't give us responsibility in terms of, now, as it were, entities are no good. Mr. Rakić, is Slog an entity, a government in the RS entity? Is the Coalition and HDZ holding responsibility in the Federation of BiH? Who are you appealing to? Those delusions, those games you're making, that fog you're throwing, the boogia, as they say in some parts of BiH, you need to stop. Imagine what we did today. Here, a man came from Paris, went to us by the bill of the Drago Ljubičić, we won't be able to plead. The agenda point is budget implementation. We are against budget implementation because BiH was strangled in that budget by the Coalition for Full and Democratic BiH, the Coalition of Slog, equally in entities, equally in BiH's central institutions. Mr. Ašanin, it was a very nice discussion of yours. I personally ask you to repeat this discussion to Mr. Dodik at the meeting of the most independent Social Democrats' leadership. They were very good discussions in BiH's defence, say that at SDA's meetings, the Civil Democratic Party, the Liberal Party, you're in the coalition, don't distract the people. Take every part of your responsibility and imagine what you've done. We distance ourselves from these results and support only what someone mentioned in terms of revision. Right, gentlemen of the HDZ?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3972	Gentlemen of the presidency, colleagues and colleagues, is not really the time for discussion, but I cannot resist reacting to the presentation of MP Dokić on the one hand and the presentation of counterpart Tokić on the other side. There is a mention of love for BiH, which I very much respect and would say, in turn, that we should not measure the emotional attachment of BiH to anyone, nor declare it. Personally, I'm not for any romantic or romantic Bosnian patriotism. I'm really up for something I call constitutional patriotism. At the shortest, I would just say that constitutional patriotism implies, therefore, the maximum respect of the Constitution and, with that in mind, the obligation of the Members here to affirm what the Constitution requires. Or to fight for BiH as a state of law and, then, again, not for the state's unitary, some legal system for the whole of BiH, but for the state with that elemental legal unity that every political community in the world today assumes. On that side, I feel very uncomfortable, and I also felt at today’s session, listening to whether something or not is in harmony with the Constitution. In today's world, the state is the only form of political communities, whether we liked it or not. The arrangement of these political communities is something else and can be talked about. The state is a form that assumes its elemental uniformity. On the other hand, I believe that our obligation is to seek legal solutions for the establishment of this fundamental legal uniformity and our efforts here with various formal possibilities seem very irresponsible and very irresponsible. I feel very bad about it, I felt very bad about it today. In this regard, I am also experiencing a discussion of counterpart Tokić as another in a series of contributions, first of all a colleague from the SDP, who says that the improvement and all the solutions will, and they are telling us, come to this BiH when they come to power, if they come to power, because here, this concept is not mentioned today, but is constantly mentioned, the concept of power, of course, makes it impossible. I repeat something I've already said for this pay phone once. In political communities, there are no concepts of 59, but either the rule of people or the rule of law. I personally believe that BiH will be a state and will be so many if it is governed by the first laws and if the MPs in this and in each parliament finally become clear that before the authorities of the political parties in the normal states rule the laws. Politically, I do not like to use it, uneducated and illiterate people, as we are inclined to say, who go from BiH to Germany or some of the Western countries, for a very short time in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, institutions that rule there before the political government. The obligation of the MPs is here, at least I thought they advocated it first, and only then to affirm the political concepts of their parties. On the other hand, I say, I had no intention of going out, but I was encouraged by my colleague Dokić's discussion, I would invite MPs, however, that I do mind calling on the public that I am very often excessively and that on the line of one politicization of this Parliament to be more responsible to each other, respecting these primary obligations. It's up to us to pass laws and make this state a country, a real state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3973	Mr. Tokić, in one of the previous congregations I asked you not to insult anyone from the Council of Ministers of BiH and today I ask you again. You just said I was two-faced, translated, not to be two-faced. I'm not a two-faced man. Unlike you, I think we talked about the report, about the report, and we should talk about it, and believe me, that the attitude I said earlier, and that's just my party's attitude, and I present it here just the way that I should present it, but when you were talking about the report, when you were talking about the review, I think you should take care of the revision that needs to be done with your party right now. You should see what you inherited. What property did you take, and then let's talk about duplicity and, in that way, try to get some stuff on the wallpaper. But personally, I don't think there's any need to have a discussion about it, so we'd better have a discussion in the hallway than behind this pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3974	I, as usual, let Mr. Secretary say what he was going to say before I replicate to Mr. Neimarlija, who mentioned the SDP, completely out of context, to whom he called. I am obliged to say a few words to Mr. Neimarlija, as a man who does not take a small position in the hierarchy of the ruling concept. I completely understand Mr. Neimarli who went the way he felt so he said, when the SDP came, and then he said if, probably, if Bog did, what I agree with should be said. So, when, if Bog does, it happens, then indeed, Mr. Neimarlija, this concept of government in which this country is ruled by people, not by law. The change in the concept of government, among other things, is that this country will be ruled by people in accordance with the laws, not as people rule this country today, because the laws were not made by the people who were in charge of them. The High Representative has declared four times as many laws as he has adopted this parliament. At this pace of adoption of the law that this parliament has set off, the country will not be able to rule for the next hundred years by ruling the laws and people in accordance with the laws. It's just people with an existing concept of power, whose part you've been in since 1990. Mr. Ašanin, I must tell you that it is touching for me that you take care of the assets of the SDP and what the SDP inherited, and I welcome it. I hope that you, within your jurisdiction, will allow for the return of what has been taken from us and taken from us. Because if what was taken 40 and 50 years ago is now coming back, and I don't know how many years ago, so I guess what was taken in this country will come back, not only from the SDP, but also from the common man and also from the SDP in the last few years. You'll get a chance to make sure he gets back to the SDP what was usurped and kidnapped. First of all, Mr. Minister, if you want to talk, we'd be happy to go after this speaker, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and we can, by the way, you can do it either way.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3975	I beg you, you carry on later, you finish this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3976	I have spoken to Mr. Minister, and I am convinced, Mr. Minister, that you will stand in the defense of every party's rights and interests, and also what fellow Neimarlija said when, if Bog does, he comes to power, because then there will be no need to correct the injustices that have been done not only to this party from which I come, but also to many people. I'm finishing my replica by gesticulating Mr. Banjac, the man has gone down with his head, and he can't really come to himself that the Council of Ministers of BiH has become so funny, charmingly, simply speaking, unseriously.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3977	I am really sorry that my colleague Lagumdžija, however, gave his wish and ambition to rule, when he said he expects a time when the SDP will win and when people will rule in accordance with the laws. I am for BiH, which will be governed by laws, and people and political parties will regulate relations in this country according to the laws. I said when the SDP won in line, so I was referring to the expectations of the members, of course, of the SDP, and I was talking about constitutional patriotism, to add more, driven by the very appropriate discussion of counterpart Tokić, when he took the only objective measure of the value of this parliament's work, which is the adoption of legislative acts.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3978	If you don't mind me, as chairman, there's something I don't understand. You're telling Ambassador Dokić an MP, and Tokić's colleague, that there's no coalition at all? Thank you very much. 61
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3979	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy that in BiH, since we are the House of Representatives for all of BiH and we are not divided here, as they constantly try to install, by different entities, by peoples, as the House of Peoples, etc., this is probably once explained. I thought that was clear. Having opened a political debate, I was intrigued by how much, in fact, there is agreement between the Social Democrats on various BiH territories, with various political ambitions. This is an afternoon discussion. Replica. Then I was impressed by how much there is, in fact, how open this positive democratic process is between social democracy, which is indeed one great thing for me, as well as any other political interest, an interesting group, an interesting space, with the action of people who have ambitions, of course, to behave in accordance with the law, not to rule or regulate relationships, but to act and comply with the law and to have the same rights and obligations. I was interested in the afternoon, I didn't even know, I didn't even care who was in front of which party, which intrigued me very much. It is very good that such a pluralism exists within one political option. What intrigued me this morning is a double position towards the BiH Council of Ministers. I didn't want to react this morning, because I thought it was so perfectly normal, because there's an inner so-called. a democratic structure. In fact, we heard a lecture about how we no longer have the Technical Council of Ministers of BiH. In doing so, we held a debate under point 1. And then I was intrigued by what happened that over one bill, a decision from the same political option came up with a proposal to first cancel the existence and not accept any position or decision or question coming from the Council of Ministers of BiH, and to call on the political one at this home to propose that the BiH Council of Ministers propose, together with entity governments, to agree certain views. Then I asked if it was the personal position of the MPs or if it was a harmonised position of the Members' Club, and I was happy to hear that it was the personal position of the MPs. Once again, I was retroactively convinced of the process of democratisation that goes very well and within a political option called social democracy, in a broad space called BiH, and I do not accept these regional criteria and I think that all political parties here are interested, no matter how far they are within their reach, to work in the whole of BiH. These two processes were more indicative for me, that today's debate on the Budget, for example, would take note of what the extraordinary remarks were and the suggestions of different political parties, individuals and MPs. I thought, just now, here comes a more open discussion, MPs speak for themselves, see different things differently, and that's okay. I have now noticed that people have taken advantage of it, instead of bringing down a debate on a point that is on the agenda, a report or information should call it whatever it wants, and to bring to an end this debate, we have come to the position that political speeches are held on a single report, so the occasion should be good to place different political thesis, okay, and that is the legitimate right of every MP. But if someone allows himself to have the exclusive right to call every single political party and option, then the right to democracy is also to ask the next question. If, in one process, one day, about the same position of one body as the Council of Ministers of BiH, you once define yourself as a ministry, for the second time as a council, for the third time just as a certain institution, then the question is whether we actually want to extend the debate indefinitely, with great concern that everything will change by making a contribution like this and such in the verbal sense of that word. 62 I'd like to suggest something. I went out and asked to make a commitment to the Ministry which came out with this report that, since Minister Ašanin accepted publicly, which is why the objections and were made to refuse or accept, he accepted, literally, all the objections that were made to this House today, and that is the first minister to accept something to be paid attention to. If we can do something, we can oblige that ministry and that minister to prepare a more precise answer to the questions that have been asked, for which there is no opportunity today and, on the other hand, we can conclude that this debate is brought down in a way that would be answered to say indeed at seven o'clock, gentlemen, political debate, a special item of the agenda, which party, which coalition, etc. Every time you take a chance on this, by the way, anyone, in a way, hangs himself, in a nice way, lucid, and I greatly appreciate it with a number of MPs, of course, counterreaction, which is quite correct. I ask you, as an MP, to approach, Mr. Chairman, the decision-making process. It will reject this report, the vote, it will accept this report, it will accept these suggestions or not, but we will finish the debate on this agenda point. If someone does not want this agenda to be completed, they do not want us to move to the next agenda and to the next meeting. Since we agreed to work until six o'clock, I'm asking you to make a statement about a point that's on the agenda and that's all I'm asking. Who votes for, who is against, and on democratic relations in BiH the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3980	I agree with Mr Spahić that we should postpone, this is a political debate. Let me tell you, I'm the president of the BiH Party, and I can speak for my party, nothing is usurped. The BiH party can say that nothing has been usurped, we have nothing, and we are not usurped because we have not existed before. How could SDP have been something, if you say you inherited something, then you can't just inherit the premises, this is an old theme between me and Zlatko, but also a responsibility. If you inherit that policy, responsibility for what's happened in the last 50 years, responsibility, how and why we sit here and discuss how we discuss, and we're not one normal country. It hasn't occurred in the last 10 years. We've had strikes here, if you remember that in 1990, we've had communist national divisions in that Alliance, gentlemen, that led to this, so if you inherited it, then you inherit that policy and responsibility for that policy. I say you don't need that. We need an opposition as well as so many votes as there are people, and I repeat, we, the Party for BiH, have nothing usurped her, we have nothing because we didn't exist in 1989, the one who existed to him could have been usurped, but then it's not SDP, it's the Union of Communists.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3981	We're going to have to end this naturally. I only have a few words to say to my colleague Silajdžić. I have to admit there's a public offering here. The ruling parties that now form the ruling structure in the BiH Council of Ministers, in the RS and in the Federation of BiH, since they did not exist, since they have nothing, we are ready to give them everything we have 63 and take from them what they have so far, which is nothing. There's no problem. Put together everything your coalition has, what it didn't have and what it doesn't now, and still trade it for what we have. What you certainly have, Mr Silajdžić, and these are members of the Alliance of Communists, those who have ruled for so long and who in your Council of Ministers of BiH, as in your party, and in your ruling parties have much more party internships than the leadership of the SDP which, unfortunately, is the heritage and what is the past of your people. We are inheriting what has been going through various stages in BiH in the 1990s, which I will not lecture you about, I would only suggest, if you don't mind, that once you stop by to give you requests from your ministers, members, members of this Parliament, applications for admission to the SK, requests from those who have asked for more times, and they weren't received and requests in which it was so nice to write that they came from poor, working, peasant families, and now they have fugitives, and now they have a variety of leaders and I don't know what it's called, and I would suggest that what you don't change with us for what we have. We're open to you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3982	Gentlemen, I can't allow it. The College can't allow any more discussions like this. There's no point in arguing like this. I can only accept debates of MPs who, in accordance with the agenda, will propose something, otherwise I will interrupt the debate for anyone to come out now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3983	This proposal, which would require that we immediately declare ourselves in view of this high degree of readiness to address problems at this political level and the love of BiH that has been expressed, I ask the chairman to give the vote that there is no interruption now at seven o'clock rather than to work at least until we finish the election laws as the most priority points of the agenda and then we will see, on the spot, who is ready to work and solve these problems, and who is ready to tell the story, stay in our own positions and go home and say he defended the national interest, not by adopting any law, without solving any problem that we came to this assembly today, or the PSBiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3984	We only have suggestions now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3985	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I wanted to protest these discussions that had long since turned from the agenda of the Budget Report. I'm very sorry, there's a lot of things being said here and there's been an abuse of the patience of MPs who we've been sitting for more than two hours, and there's talk of other things that aren't in the agenda at all. So far we could have finished all the points of the agenda and gone home, and we know that we have one very important law that is necessary for the future of this society, and that is the Electoral Law, so far we have been able to discuss it. There was talk of an abnormal BiH, and I don't know what all the sentences were. But I'm going to say that this is all normal, given what 64 of us have come from, this is all so normal and everything has to go its course. There must be more tolerance, more compromise and more agreement. We must pass laws that will correspond to the interests of all peoples living in BiH and the interests of all entities and cantons and all organisations that exist in BiH, and in order to have such laws, they must be based on agreement and compromise, not on any imposition or desire or illusion of any kind of bosna that corresponds to individuals, groups or any particular peoples. My suggestion is that we move on to work and take care of the electoral body, the peoples who live and expect us to have a modern, decentralised BiH, the institutions of BiH, which will be profitable, cheap and efficient, which means that they will take from the people a few taxis, and allow them to create and to live as well as they can, every day, more and better to live, to start a business and to pass laws that will make life easier for them. There was talk earlier about the execution of the Budget, so it's normal that the Budget is not great and this report as it was not ideal, and it's not because the standard in the RS and the Federation of BiH is extremely low, because we operate mostly from other people's help, from foreign aid, from donors, from credit. Taxes are mentioned, tax introductions and so on, the formation of new institutions, so, for God's sake, it's all costing. All this requires more taking than these people who are on the verge of existence. Thank you. I'd like to vote now on this budget report and move on if we can, or interrupt the session, it's already too late.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3986	Now we should make a statement, first of all, on the report, so we'll talk about the proposal later, we need to finish the agenda. We have a report on the execution of the budget of the BiH institution. We had a lot of suggestions here. I think there are two suggestions. One of them, given that there will be a final report for this past year, that we suggest that the suggestions and the proposals of the Members be supplemented by this and, accordingly, make a final report, that is one and the other, to make a statement about what we had. I'd like the Secretariat to tell me how many are present in the O.R. - 27. The vote will show whether we accept it or not. Therefore, it is contained, MP Špirić. Here, I also note what Mr Špirić said, it is the Commission's proposal not to accept the report. There's a 27 in the O.R. I ask you, gentlemen, who is in favour of accepting the report in the proposed form. - 11-against? 9 - Abstained 7 Entities, from the Federation of BiH, who, i.e., did not get the necessary majority. Report not accepted. We have another proposal that the report be accepted with the proposals and suggestions of the MPs that have been presented here, which should be installed in the way the MPs asked to be installed. The conclusion that the report is complete with proposals and suggestions from the MPs and is submitted again for consideration. So there's no need. Please, it's a little awkward here that the minister isn't here. Is there a deputy? Deputy, does that mean anything to you if you make a recommendation, or should we return the report to you now to supplement it and to reconsider it? Please report to the motionary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3987	I just don't have anything to ask the promoter now. We didn't accept the report. He's been rejected and the story is over. We're not even going to review the nine-month report again. We will have an annual report, and they will learn lessons from this entire discussion, preparing an annual report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3988	Does this mean anything in the procedure of your continued work on the annual report if it is not accepted? Nine-month report not accepted. It doesn't mean anything. I thought it meant something. I don't think that's exactly what you're saying, if one organ hasn't accepted the report and you know what the consequences are. I didn't think it was that good, but if so, can we conclude this point with the following suggestions that it is recommended to the Ministry to include in the annual report suggestions and remarks from MPs and do it with the procedure and the way it is suggested here today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3989	I don't know now. You didn't accept anything we wanted to inform you. If you haven't accepted, I don't know what to do. We are obliged once a year to submit the report and we will submit it, and it is known when that report is submitted, and now you did not want to accept this information, you do not want to know what is happening, it is your right to do it. This is Information. Take it, take it. It says the wrong report, but this is basically Information. The report is submitted, Mr. Tokić, once a year, and that report in the People's Language is called the final account, if you want me to translate it. So if you didn't want to accept this, then you didn't want to know how we're doing, what we're doing, and we're going to keep providing you with this information, and you're going to consider, look at whatever it is, to provide absolute transparency.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3990	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, the difference between the report and the information, as far as I know, is that the report is accepted, and the information is only heard and there is no vote on whether it is accepted or not. What we have today is the result of some condition. This is what the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the ministry, informs of how the funds were spent and how much they were spent. However, the technology of this is not in the best order. We were looking at the Commission that discussed this Report or this Information a little bit more Analyticals. So, to see from that report what material costs are, what investments are, how funds have been spent in the DKPs, whether all the funds collected in the DKPs spent in the DKPs themselves or returned to the Council of Ministers of BiH or, in addition to what was collected in those DKPs, there has to be something more to support these DKPs, etc. We've talked to people who've been doing this job, namely, doing this budget, doing the report, there's a lot of things, our remarks, which they agree with, and we think that, indeed, this next report must be more detailed, there must be more analysis, 66 must be much clearer to accept. However, I'd keep myself here on this if this was information. That it does not have to be voted on, that we inform ourselves about it, and that next, I will say the next report is what we will adopt or not adopt, give to the BiH Council of Ministers, or the ministry that does the job, the passing grade or we will say it did not work properly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3991	We've already come to this conclusion that this is the report, this is the title. She discussed the Commission as a Report, we put it on the agenda as a Report, we discussed the Report. In our operational plan, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly says we will discuss the Budget Implementation Report in nine months and beyond at the 16th session. Therefore, I do not know what the Council of Ministers' intention was, it was mandatory to deliver the report to us. We made a statement about him because, now you can't change it if it was information, because we wouldn't accept it, we wouldn't discuss it, we'd ask for a report. Therefore, we can accept the report or not accept it. I accept, understand Mr. Banjac's intention to relativise it a little bit, but we've already made that clear and now, if we want to give some suggestions, we can, but for me, they're not necessary. Please, I can't agree with the Minister's findings, you won't receive information, you don't care. As far as we're concerned, we've been arguing for so long. However, the point is that we disagree with the way in which the report is carried out. It's also written in the commission's report, that's also said in our presentation. You can't fix anything in nine months. We don't ask for a more detailed explanation with others. Some things can be explained in more detail, but there must be a change in the execution of the Budget. If there is no change, you can't even give us an annual report different. So, these suggestions, people heard, we can give, try to get all these things in the annual report, so if it can't be done for the past year, then it's up to us whether we accept that report or not, but in the budget for 2000 it can be a different behavior. Do not force us as MPs to reach for legal means, to prove that the report has not been carried out in a legitimate manner.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3992	I would like to say now, unfortunately, in the end we come to very large comments and come to a large conclusion. We're coming up with some threats. If that's the case, well, come on, lay down specific remarks, let's go from point to point, on the report that you got, here, let's call it a report. Let's make concrete remarks. You can't talk like that. You know very well that it can't be a report, but you won't admit it. You know very well. Take the date when it's done. You know very well that certain commitments are now being made, that certain revenues are now reaching and only now can we fit them in. So if we're talking about a nine-month execution, we need to talk about the obligations that have now come into view in these three months, and we're talking about information, and we need you to admit that. I just said that we really owe an analytically prepared budget implementation report, and that's what we'll be able to do when we finish the financial year. Then we'll have all the data. However, on a case-by-case basis in the DKP, we have an obligation to deliver to you if the DKP spent, how much in Spain it spent, how much it spent anywhere. We weren't able to do that now and it's perfectly normal for us to deliver this informationally. 67 The fact is that it bears the title of the report, but the same fact is that it's a technical mistake that it's a report. However, accept or do not accept. I want to say that I've accepted everything, there's no suggestion that's not going to be built in, but if we're seriously asking, let's seriously talk. Let's be serious about any particular case to ask a question. You're asking a question just now why the material costs are this big, they pay this size. You can see there was only a replacement. You see that Budget has not been breached anywhere, nowhere. There's no bounce from Budget anywhere. I firmly claim that, and I have arguments for that, but to see if we're doing business properly or not doing business, that's exactly why. I'm not talking about the SDP relationship right now, I'm talking about the agenda point, which is why I don't see why.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3993	We heard. Thank you very much, Minister. I mean, gentlemen, this point has been brought to an end. It's about the report and it's undeniable. Whether it's technical or some other mistake, we don't know that, the report wasn't accepted. It would be good to draw, gentlemen from the ministry, here are the minister and the deputy, lessons based on the remarks of the MPs and not to experience this fate. I think that's very important to you. I'm closing this agenda item. This wasn't on the agenda. Did you think the point would continue? I'll put it on now, but if we put it in the act, it'll turn out we'll keep going. Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador Tokić has suggested that we continue to work. Given the importance of the next agenda points, I just want to tell you that it is impossible to work tomorrow because of the holidays of the Serbian people and we, therefore, have the only chance to work tonight, that's what MP Tokić meant. We were going to suggest that it hasn't been discussed this long about this point of the agenda, that we end this election law, however, what it is. It's impossible to continue tomorrow. I only have a question as to who's in favor of working, but until how long? Is there any concrete suggestion? We agreed to work until 6:00 this morning, or 18 o'clock. Now the only thing we can do is work till 6:00. Please, just let me tell you. What exactly are you suggesting? How long you been working? The man has the right to propose. How many MPs are present? - 26. I just want to say one more time, that this morning, we deceived one of the promoters, because he attended a meeting this morning where it was agreed to work until 18 o'clock. Since we've duped one of the promoters, it's impossible to work at the point where man respected to be up to 18 hours. It didn't fit, it didn't get to that point, and he left. We can't treat one another one way or another. We can continue these two points if they agree, but this morning was the conclusion at the 18th hour end. Who is for this – 27 there are present, to continue to work until two points are completed around the Budget. The electoral law cannot, gentlemen, because we have deceived the motionary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3994	He's got a proposal. There's no other proposal. He didn't avoid it, he respected what we agreed this morning. Only, please, does Mr. Moris have the opportunity to represent the motionor here around the Electoral Law? I don't think there's that possibility. Who's in favor of continuing the work? Clearly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. To make a difference. - 11 As you can see, we can go against, but nothing will happen. Before I close this session, please wait. It's the 18th session. 01st at 10 o'clock. You'll get calls, where we left off at 12:30, we have a delegation visit. I'm finishing this part of the work. The sit-down ended at 7:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3996	Now I've been informed that the microphones weren't on. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, esteemed guests, I welcome you and suggest we continue the work of the 16th session, since we have 26 MPs present in the hall, which means we have a quorum and we can work and decide properly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3997	Ladies and gentlemen, before the beginning of the session, I suggest that Mr. Banjac, chairman of this house, warn the service that excessive zeal in the technical preparation of this session is not necessary. In fact, as MPs today, we have received a schedule in which all MPs have tried to place themselves on three MPs in one chair, while the names of the delegation from the Council of Europe are neatly cleared, as you can see, and professional services do not know that they will not be at this session at all. So I suggest that you order someone to pick it up until they come to the O.R., and until then that MPs sit neatly in the seats where they sit and once begin to deal with the dignity of the state's representatives of BiH, just as we treat our guests, or those who come to these sessions. I think it's historically important, no matter how little you seem at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u3998	Thank you very much. Please, take five minutes to coordinate the seat of the MPs. There's just a technical break here to schedule, where you've been sitting so far.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4000	I'd ask the question. Is today more important to us form or essence? Whether we want to work and whether we want to use this hour and 15 minutes to get to an esteemed delegation or not. If we do not, then we can continue to move, with all due respect to my predecessor who pointed to one practice, but I would remind you that you are not protecting Parliament's integrity through form but through essence. One day you invite someone else to bring laws on behalf of this House, and now you're bothered that we're not sitting in our seats the last time we sat down. We were in the last session essentially moved from our seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4001	We have two suggestions here. If we stay the way it is, so we don't re-evaluate the order later, because we have information that the gentlemen will join for the sake of it, there won't be any special interruptions, that they're being prepared, that they'll join, and that's why the space is left behind. I didn't tell them to come out, but to move, Your Honor, in a five-minute break, they just need to switch places where they used to sit, that was quite enough. Whoever wanted to move moved moved. Are there enough MPs? We've got 18 people in the O.R. right now. Whoever wanted to move, he did it. You heard the explanation of the Service why it's like this. Before we move to the fourth item of the agenda, I'd like to inform you of the next item. We just received a letter from the High Representative, which was sent to me, among other things. I want to read his first part. It's in the letter. I order that the BiH State Border Service Act enters into force immediately, on a provisional basis, until the BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopts this law in its prescribed form, without amendments and additions and without setting conditions. We provide you with the decision and text of the Law in support of this letter, for your information and insight. The decision and text of the Law will immediately be published in the Official Journal of BiH and the official newspaper of both entities. With all due respect, Wolfgang Petrich. Forwarded to all members of the PSBiH House of Representatives College. I had an obligation to introduce you to this. We're going to work. Before we open the discussion on item 4 to tell you that the absence from this session announced: Ivo Mijačević, Pero Skopljak and Ana Havel, due to the illness, as well as Ljubomir Zovko because of the official trip abroad. There are no other notices of absence. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. A draft of the BiH institution's budget and international commitments for 2000 before I open the debate, I ask the president of the Commission for the budget to come out and announce the Commission's views.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4002	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and distinguished guests, the Finance and Budget Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH discussed the BiH Budget and International Obligations for 2000 and, accordingly, I submit the following report. The Commission proposes to the PSBiH House of Representatives that the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2000 be considered in the form of a draft. The comments and suggestions of most of the members of the Commission are as follows: 1. It is required that material costs and investments be managed separately by each budget user; 71 2. That the funds for the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, due to the prominent activity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, are increasing the cost of the BiH Presidency and Council of Ministers' cabinets and that an internal redistribution be carried out evenly, within the institutions. 3. That the estimated amount for assistance to refugees and displaced persons is insufficient and suggests an increase. The Commission concluded that the budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000, that this proposal could serve as a basis for making proposals, while considering proposals and suggestions, would be a report by the Commission, and I reserve the right, as an MP, to present my view of this draft budget for 2000.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4003	I ask the President of the Constitutional Affairs Commission, does it need to be said? I think so, because so are we.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4004	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission considered the Budget for 2000. The Commission found that there was a constitutional basis for the adoption of the BiH Budget for 2000, but the Commission found, in light of the very content of the document, that, given the expressed need to approach the Budget in a different way, suggested that the form of this proposal should return to the draft of the BiH Budget Act for 2000, so that today we are discussing the Budget as a Draft rather than the Budget proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4005	Mr. Chairman and fellow MPs, the SDP MPs' Club of BiH, supports parliamentary committee proposals to discuss the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the year in the drafts. I have to say, when I've been saying this for so long, the name of the law, I have to ask myself a question, who makes up this kind of obnoxious name for a country's budget, but, well, it looks like we have to accept it, too. We believe that the budget, in the draft, needs to be conducted a very concrete debate and a thorough debate and that it is good that the draft said "one of the essential elements of the economic policy of each state, including the BiH state". From this area, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has placed the Constitution in charge of deciding on sources and the amount of funds for the work of BiH institutions and international obligations and the approval of the Budget or budget of the BiH institutions, because each of them has a part of the budget. In order for MPs to be able to fulfil this obligation, we would have to have more elements and data at our disposal than the BiH Presidency has offered us in this document, as a proposal from the Budget. The general remark of the SDP MPs' Club of BiH is that this Budget is not sufficiently explained and supported by data, and we are surprised that the BiH Presidency, 72 at the proposal of the Budget, did not insist that the budget's revenue side, as well as the budget's expenditure side, by each user, be more detailedly supported data and a thorough explanation. To be specific. As the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we are in line to decide on sources and the amount of funds, i.e. on the revenue side of the Budget. I mora say that in this draft budget, on this side of the budget, very little attention has been paid both in the budget and in the reasoning of the Budget and in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. Looks like we're more concerned about how to spend our resources than how to get them. Starting with foreign debt service revenues being provided in accordance with the Foreign Debt Act, I will remain on the revenues foreseen for the financing of BiH institutions. The revenues for these purposes are provided, or envisaged, so that, according to the reasoning, last year's revenues from 1999, revenues to be paid by entities, the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska have increased by 10% compared to 1999. However, this increase was planned against the projected funds for 1999 and not for the funds implemented. As we know from the Report that we were considering in the previous part of this session, entities in 1999 were unable to carry out the projected obligations and the injunction in carrying out the entity's obligations is more than 25%, when an assessment is made for the whole year. For me, the question of the reality of a plan like this was raised in 2000. When we compare this assessment for 1999 with what is scheduled for 2000, then we see that these entity obligations are increased by almost 50%, between 48-50% and that's why I'm being asked the question of reality. However, at a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission, by the services that prepared this proposal, we were told that entities had accepted this commitment. However, I must conclude that, nevertheless, in this Budget Proposal or the Budget Act, it is not envisaged what should be done if these funds are not realised, because, you know, we deploy these assets on the revenue side to the expenditure side, living institutions, and can be challenged by their functioning and, therefore, if entities have already accepted the obligations in accordance with the forecasts, we should provide for some procedure, ways in which these obligations will be carried out in accordance with the commitments adopted, i.e., if the obligations cannot be fulfilled, then it should be provided for in the Budget Law in which case the budget rebalancing will be carried out. I am saying that I am afraid that unreal forecasting of income can question the functioning of BiH institutions and the execution, that is, the non-execution of commitments undertaken with all the consequences it carries. The second paragraph is replaced by the following: These other revenues relate to administrative fees charged in procedures conducted in front of BiH institutions. I don't understand why the budget itself doesn't say that these are the original revenues from administrative taxis, because they're the only ones that are concerned, no other original income is foreseen. These revenues are projected by 30% more than last year. From the available data, I can also estimate that, I say from the available data, I can estimate that these funds are realistically foreseen, but I draw attention to the fact that these funds are now 42.5% of the funds provided for financing BiH institutions, and that they are 70% or 70% of the amount, I am talking about the amount of 70% of the assets that entities are required, according to this Budget proposal, to pay. For me, the only question is that in the Budget Implementation Act and 73 of the Budget itself, it is not envisaged in which the implementation of these revenues will be fully ensured, because we would have to cover these revenues in a comprehensive manner and ensure that they are paid in due time to the Budget not to be, as we had in the Report, that only one part of the budget’s revenues were paid, or that they were not paid. It should also be noted who is responsible for doing so and the measures not to comply with these obligations, these are my remarks to the Budget Implementation Act. I apologize for talking about him right away, because it's hard to talk about the budget, because there are only figures in it, and in the law of execution there are parts of how it will be executed. When we look at possible revenues for the work of BiH institutions and when we have in mind the obligations that we have made in the laws adopted so far at the level of the state, I think it was normal for the next period to see the possibility of increasing funds from the original revenues. Since this has not been done now, and it is my suggestion to do so in the next period and to see if we can find new original incomes, to look at all the reasons for and all the reasons against, and then to make a decision. I expected it to be done in this budget, at least given the possibilities, but, well, if it isn't, my suggestion is that it will be for the next period. The second is the expenditures of BiH institutions, planned at 75.3m KM and 2.3m for the current budget reserve. On the basis of very narrow data on the needs and means provided for for individual institutions, for each institution individually, it is difficult to talk about the eligibility of the funds provided for. In my opinion, it was necessary to provide for each of the institutions an advanced review with the previous year, to explain the changes made in the number of employees, in salaries, in material costs and in particular to show funds for investments, not together with material costs, and to give an explanation for their justification. This way, we don't know what part of the funds are related to material costs, which on behalf of investments, and I think that the process of material costs and investments must be different, because we can only enter investment if we have enough resources and only for those investments that are necessary for the normal functioning of the organs. We advocate, from the SDP MPs' club, to create equal conditions for the functioning of each of the institutions, and not those that have been created before to expand, which have previously started to function, and those who again function to have somewhat more difficult conditions to function. Comparation of the funds achieved and planned for individual bodies, e.g. The comparison of funds for the work of the BiH Presidency, which has 70% of the funds more than is foreseen in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, says that these proposals should be re-examined and the criteria for each of the bodies leveled, because, here, just to say that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has 57 MPs and delegates and that we now need to make a decision on the organisation of the Secretariat, and we know that this Secretariat is not complete and that it will be filled in in 2000. When we compare these funds, I don't think they're equally treated, let's say, these two organs, but I stand up for each of the organs to be reassessed. 74 Also, we advocate to provide greater funds for, here is a bit of a rough name, a refugee programme, I would call it or say it is about the obligations to implement the BiH Refugee Act and the displaced persons we recently adopted, for which very small funds of one million KM are foreseen this year, and the commitments we have accepted, in my opinion, are far greater. I also advocate that the Law on the Implementation of Budgets prescribes the obligation of a rational availability of funds, with each user, the savings of funds and the functioning of each institution, as a single institution of the BiH state. I was also speaking here in part about the Budget Implementation Act, these are proposals that we should include in the Budget Implementation Act, and when we come into the form of a proposal, then I can make concrete amendments if necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4006	Ladies and gentlemen, as the debate is being held in the Draft, I will try to give my view and a few perhaps useful suggestions, related to the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000. First, I share the opinion of counterpart Muminagić, who says that the income side, from the proposal's point of view, may not be realistically measured, given the economic power, i.e. the economic state and development, I say, of the entities and of the Federation of BiH and RS, although I suppose there is a promise from the entity government that commitments to the financing of joint BiH institutions in 2000 will be respected in the envisaged scope. But it is hard to believe that entities will be able to increase by 40% in 2000 compared to 1999. I think that after the end of 2000, we will come back in the same position to say that the entity's obligations towards the BiH joint institutions are not respected and that is why I agree to more realistically look at the BiH institution's revenue side. Namely, I've asked my colleagues from the Department of Civil Affairs. I'm interested, will the budget deficit of BiH's representative institutions be achieved in 1999? If the entity-based pick-up is less than 25% global, something doesn't add up. So there must be a deficit and must be said in which way the budget deficit will be covered or, if it is not there, it means that some other revenue to finance joint activities of BiH's representative bodies has exceeded the planned or expected amounts. The second thing that is illogical on the income side is the other revenues relating to administrative fees. I think that we are the only country in Europe or in a world where administrative fees to central authorities or joint BiH institutions are 12.5% of the incomes on which it is intended to finance the activities of the BiH representative bodies or joint bodies. I think that this item as MPs must be reduced, because this is an item paid by BiH citizens in front of joint institutions and we must disburse them, i.e. we must adapt that income level to the economic level, or to the level of BiH's development, or its entities. There is no country in the world where in the budget, on the revenue side, taxes are participating with 12.5%, not to mention the percentages spoken by counterpart Muminagić, and if the donations of one or another entity, or the collection of entity donations for the work of institutions, are observed separately. 75 As for the spending side, what I would like to draw attention to, there is one material error. The Federation of BiH must participate with 29.800,000 KM, not 29.700,000, so 100,000 marks have been subdued as I suppose an accounting error. As regards expenditure parties, that is to say, the global observation is that funds for material costs and investments are managed separately. I don't think any of the MPs can define what an investment is. What is the investment of the BiH Presidency office, which is the investment of the BiH Council of Ministers' Office, i.e. what is an investment that will tomorrow be the investment of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council. That material costs, investments and that we appreciate whether we are in a situation, given the economic situation that is in BiH, that we are going to any investment at all, and believe me, this is not about small funds. The second thing, or third, as you wish, is that the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's representative council in this conference has received one new dimension, at least by the number of meetings, the work of the committees and, I would say, we have entered into a normal parliamentary procedure unlike the work of the Representative's Council in the past meeting, with nothing negative going on about colleagues who had worked before us, and I suppose at least the meetings were held more rarely and such discussions have been held more rarely. Bodies such as the BiH presidency office and the BiH Council of Ministers' Office have defined, by initiative, the revenue side at the level of its needs to cover their activities, I suppose. I therefore propose that the simple funds for the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be increased by a linear reduction of the BiH Presidency's office and the BiH Council of Ministers by 500,000 marks, i.e. the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly from 2.900,000 KM is increased to 3.900,000 KM, for the reason that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Council will enter a quality new situation, related to our visits to various European parliaments, where we are hosts, for reasons, I suppose, and the quality of the work of this Parliament on the adoption of vital legal projects that will benefit BiH, not that the legal projects and future will be inaugurated by decisions of the High Representative. I specifically suggest that 500,000 marks be removed and provided for the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I have to draw your attention, of course, to the 1999 Budget Implementation Report, and I'm going to do a special apostrophe. You know that in 1999, following the decision of the ruling set in BiH, therefore, the entity of the Federation of BiH, that this year of return, related to the most vulnerable category of BiH, was avoided and displaced persons and was spent, with letters and numbers, 216,900 KM for the most unhappy category of the BiH population. The BiH Council of Ministers, relating to the budget reserve, has decided that fine-tuned people sit on the bag to finely untie it and schedule it like this. The funds for the work of the BiH Council of Ministers' Office 370,000 KM, funds for the BiH presidency's 300,000 office, for the purchase of fuel for the 100,000 building, etc., are nowhere to be found in BiH, although it has been declared a year of return and a staunch push for the realization of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. To make the accident bigger, even entity budgets didn't act happier when it avoided the displaced population. That's why I suggest, when the draft budget for 2000 is at stake, that the completely different problem of refugees and displaced people is observed, that this budget, as proposed by revenue and expenditure, is closed and that, given that we are in an unstandard situation, is made up of an Annex Budget, which will be 76 exclusively related to Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement where we'll be in a position to single out 2-3 or 5 million KM, and to get professional services to figure out what it costs to realize Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement at BiH level and to open up the possibility through donations from representatives of the international community or the international community in the sense that this problem is becoming more radically resolved in the interests of citizens who are in this war, who were led in these areas, left with nothing. We've been working on one calculation, related to RS, and, if Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Accords wants to honor until the end, that those who want to return, to return, those who want to stay where they are now, to stay, that those who want to make compensation, compensation, that it costs about 4 billion KM somewhere. I suppose, if the Federation of BiH is involved, it's a much larger amount, but it's a real calculation that we have to face and that's how we present it to the international community. I'm afraid that every year we'll be accused of destructing or obstructing Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Accords, which is because BiH does not have the means to deal with these problems on its own. I propose that this budget be made up of an annex that will be related to solving the problem of the most endangered category of the BiH population, i.e. both its entities, both the RS and the Federation of BiH. To make the case worse, to observe or help these poor people, three offices are envisaged, which are scheduled in Budget, with about 1,200,000 KM, therefore, which will work to prove the accidents of these people and will not benefit at all, but the state administration will receive not so little wages. I would ask you, of course, I went with this proposal and according to the budget of the RS, I was not in a situation towards the Federation of BiH. He hasn't come to terms with it, but here, I'd like to ask that we have a clear view here, when it comes to this proposal regarding the annex Budget, which is dedicated exclusively to Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. Of course, it will be the best guarantee for citizens who are in that situation that we simply, if nothing, well targeted how much it costs to realize Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement, and we will be, in relation to the international community, in a situation where we tell them that it is not true that the authorities do not want to resolve it, but that there are not enough financial resources and that we open up the possibility of donation. To make the accident bigger, the Bill on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH envisioned a category of donations, but they are nowhere on the revenue side of the Budget Proposal. There can be no law of execution incompatible with the Budget Proposal. We heard yesterday that the Government of the Netherlands has made a decision to donate Budget, related to the establishment of the Border Service. Niko one knows how much that's gonna cost. I ask you that all donation indications must find their real reflection in the Proposal or in the Draft Budget, so that we can redistribute both revenue and expenditure. Here, too, it says there will be no credit debt based on Budget, but I suggest that this possibility be opened, but exclusively related to the realization of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4007	The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, namely, I would like first of all to welcome that in this year we are planning a larger budget than in last year, because this is probably a message to all of us that BiH institutions will continue to develop, that they will not remain at this capacity that we had in 1999 and, above all, these planning figures for 77 Budgets in 2000, I see as a planned intention to develop BiH institutions and that our state will get those capacities projected by the Dayton Constitution. Probably our parliamentary comments about the reality or the unreality of this kind of planning of the budget are also also a matter of our commitment, as much as we want the state and as much as we want the institutions of the state to master their exclusive powers. That's why I support this way of planning and this way of working, that every year through its budget planning it just predicts and gives us guidance on how many countries we're going to make next year. The budget is, in any case, the regulator of the development of state institutions and how much money there is, and we will be able to develop institutions, and under the development of institutions, I mean that in this year we will probably have a reconstructed Council of Ministers of BiH, which will have a different structure than today's Council, which will mean, probably, a different structure of these costs and, in particular, what were certain questions regarding the costs of the foreign ministry. Our country, as an international law entity, will need to develop its institutions of the DKP, which leads to adequate costs. If we want a country like that, we need to be aware that we need to find resources for all this together. I'd like to make a few technical remarks. I believe that in the income item, revenue should be absolutely identified in the way it was given in the Budget Implementation Act. It should be clear that there is an entity transfer item, and then the entity structure, in any case, should be a grant and donation item, whether or not, but that the structure reflects the structure provided for by law and that there are other regular and extraordinary revenues, but I would demand that the law on the original incomes of BiH institutions return to the procedure as soon as possible, and that that is the name of the revenue items in the Budget and the Budget itself. I think that shows our commitment, too, that we want to round the country in the way that it was prejudged by the Dayton Constitution. I believe that in the divisive side it should be divided into two separate items of material costs and investments, because also by accounting codes, annual, one-time material expenditures, the material costs do not have the same character as the investment. That's what I would suggest to separate, and in the clarifications of the budget, I think we have it structured. I would suggest that budget reserves be reduced and that the budget reserve cuts increase the item for refugees and displaced persons in the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. In short, I'll resume it. I'm glad we're planning a bigger budget. I would like it to be realized, because this year's budget implementation measure will also be a measure of how many new functions we have established at our country's level according to the Dayton Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4008	Replication is on Mr Branković's display. I cannot accept its finding or conclusion that those who are talking about the reality of income are not to strengthen single bodies, because the reality of income is reflected from the point of view of the possibility of security, without the need for the financing and functioning of the bodies as 78 are, I did not question in my presentation. I was talking about reality, because last year we didn't do it, it's been a year. We have the data for nine months and I've done the math, entity revenues are undermining one quarter of the planned, so it wasn't realistically planned until they were able to execute them, it's one thing, and the other isn't, if they're realistically planned in 2000, I can accept that they are, because that information was given to us, then we need to provide in the Budget Act the way these revenues will be provided monthly, each month so that they are actually carried out in the amount that was planned. Therefore, since I was talking about the reality of income, Mr. Nikola should speak for himself, I want to say that I am not questioning the BiH institutions, strengthening them and functioning them, because I don't think the institutions are equal or treated on an equal footing, and it is necessary to provide as much resources as necessary for the normal functioning of the institutions, but at the same time to implement their austerity measures in the spent funds that are planned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4009	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed fellow MPs and MPs, Mrs Muminagić has made very clear, precise and detailed views of the SDP, when it comes to budget and draft, as well as the proposal for a law on its execution. But since it's a very large matter, I don't mean the paper that's in front of us, but large in itself. I am obliged to say a few more words that I would especially like to draw attention to in front of the SDP when it comes to the Budget and the Bill on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions. First of all, I must admit that for me, it is an unpleasant surprise that we do not have a proposing here today, and the proposal is the BiH Presidency. The budget in every country is, I know, I see a man waving his hand, I'm here, and you're waving at me with your hand that the man is there. I know that the gentleman from the office is one of the BiH presidency members, however, I am talking about members of the BiH presidency. It is about the budget that is once a year and it is about the budget which is the key point of the session of parliaments in the year in any country in the world. I expected that in front of the BiH presidency, chair or one of the BiH presidency members would take advantage of the opportunity to submit preliminary exposures to this budget, to say in a certain way what is being said everywhere in the world, and to give the BiH presidency's views on not only the budget but everything the budget is related to. For me, it is a very unpleasant surprise that the BiH presidency gentlemen today did not find it appropriate to address the BiH Parliament on the draft budget. The reason for this is more, not only the country's general economic situation, but the fact, among other things, that the number of unemployed in this country has become equal to the number of employees. Just that fact and the fact that the budget wasn't met by the entities last year, and there's no indication that it's going to be fulfilled now in the way it says it here, that's enough for one serious exposé. The fact that a social product in this country from mining has become smaller than a social product from catering is in itself enough for the BiH Presidency to go to the BiH Parliament at this time and refer to what we have concluded, which is the presentation of Mr Tomić, then acting as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who has presented very alarming indicators that speak, among other things, about BiH not being able to meet its obligations to abroad to the extent that it would be normal, because 79 lacks adequate mechanisms to lead macroeconomic policy. That fact, too, was reason enough to address the BiH presidency. The fact that BiH is in a category of countries such as Bangladesh, Burundi,... and other similar countries, Honduras, Moldova, and that not all low-income countries, the fifth category by category of World Bank categorization is quite enough, although some claim that individual entities stand better. This is the BiH Parliament. That's reason enough to talk to us. When it comes to the Budget itself, I would like to say that it is totally unacceptable for us that the BiH Presidency, together with the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, means four men and services serving them, have twice as many budgets as the complete two homes of the BiH Parliament and services serving the two homes of the BiH Parliament. It is also unacceptable for the Budget to stand an item designed for co-chair and co-chair offices, when we know it is unconstitutional. I don't understand how we can adopt in Budget items that predict the costs of categories that we know are unconstitutional. Also, I find it totally unacceptable that this opportunity has not responded to us agreeing to the entity's budgets with the BiH Budget. I don't want to open a debate about how it should be done, but we think we need to give an answer to the question of what's going on with it. Also, I was expecting and asking for an answer, if not at this time, but in any case, is what we heard from Mr Tomić, at one of the previous meetings of the BiH Parliament, did this change, when it is said in Budget that the amount of 187,000,000 KM for the service of external debt is foreseen, will we be able to meet it? Is that acceptable? Also, I would like to draw attention to the fact that fellow Špirić spoke about, when he rightly said there is no country in which 12% of the budget is financed from taxis, conditioned from the original revenues. In fact, 44% is financed when you break out those debts, but 44 is something that, on the one hand, can be characterized as worse, and, on the other hand, as worse. It is unacceptable that the Budget of a country depends in this way on the goodwill of the prime minister of two entities and the goodwill of who else knows who. For us, such an attitude is unacceptable, and I think the right questions we expected to be given an answer to have been raised. I want to draw attention to two items here, which apparently may not be that important at first sight, which is the issue of statistics and the issue of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments. What am I saying? BiH has no data in all global reports, a country most often lacking in data. In the World Bank's latest publication, you can see that BiH is the only country in the world in which, of all UN members, there is no information as to the expected age of BiH citizens. So for us, world statistics don't even know how much we're going to live. It knows about any country in the world, including those that have 300 dollars... per capita. The data on BiH are empty in European publications issued by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the World Bank and many others. It's unacceptable to have such a picture of us, not to go into the world, but that we don't have a picture of ourselves. That is why the issue of self-image cannot be addressed with such a budget line. The second question, the issue of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments in BiH, which, with this support, raises the question of whether it should at all. If we're going to do it this way, then we'd better reconsider all that together. I don't want to bid with numbers here, and that's how I'm gonna bring this to an end. You see, for us, it's unacceptable that Budget BiH, 80 revenue and expenditure pages, here, this is Budget, and the explanation is here. I appreciate the extraordinary material that we received today, the contribution, the material that was sent from the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, which gave me more information than all this I had before, but this we received by an argument at the last session and quite logically that the debate at the last session made sense because of this, but it is totally unacceptable for us to have the Budget of the country with its explanations look like this. To conclude that a budget like this and an enforcement law like this is unacceptable for us, we cannot accept it, and, Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you something I don't want to say when the session begins. In fact, Mr. Chairman, I don't want to embarrass ourselves in front of strangers, but here you have 13 chairs, for 13 people from the Council of Europe delegation. In no country in the world, the chair provided for a member of Parliament is not subject to another. Not in any country in the world, and it's humiliating for us. Please, Mr. Chairman, don't put us in a position when these 13 people, when the officials sit here, not the slow Foreign Minister and Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, need to have the place that belongs to them, but that their officers who carry the purse are sitting here, and that MPs are raised from there, it's absolutely unacceptable and self-indulgent. I want to say that now, so that I don't get confused and embarrass all of us when people come here. You're a solemn session, as you imagined, of two homes, and none of us in the SDP have any idea how you planned that session, what you thought about it, and what you wanted from it. I don't want to say that, I know I'm getting out of the Rules of Procedure, but it's better if I say here, when there's no such people, we don't throw up in front of them. It is unacceptable to call two homes in one sentence of a letter that speaks of an extended session and expect us to be overjoyed that the officials of the Council of Europe will be sitting at the place of the BiH Parliament's MPs. It's an honor to serve the College. I'm asking you to change that by 12:30. I appeal to you. I have no right to ask, because I have no foothold in the Rules of Procedure, but because of the cheeks of this House, I am asking you to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4010	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen, regarding this item of the agenda, I would also briefly refer to the projections that my predecessor made here. I don't think anyone in this room needs to explain comparisons with countries like Ruanda, etc., with the full respect of these Central African countries that have the position they have. BiH is a European country, with its position in Europe and with its economic development, which allows it to reach the level necessary in the coming period for all European integration. As some people see these things, they use for political promotion, it's a matter of their commitment, but this really isn't the place for that propaganda. There's stage, there's mytines, there's a lot of money, let them spend it there, and let them talk freely if anyone believes them. As for the execution of the Budget, I also want to point out that this cannot depend on the will of any man, nor on the prime minister of any entity, but rather on the legal obligations that are very regular and orderly in line with the executions of the Budget. As far as international obligations are concerned, they are carried out by automation, by automatic transfer and transfer on the same day as the time for those obligations to be realised. Thanks to this relationship BiH is one member... The IMF and the World Bank that allow it to get new support and new loans and to 81 meet its obligations under the stand by the arrangement. So that execution segment of the budget is automatic. It is executed at 100% level and has a zero priority compared to all obligations and, therefore, there is no, neither will be, nor was there in 1999 any deviations on this issue. It's not right here in the report, it's put in the data for nine months, so it's compared to the full year, and then the percentages look what they look like. This is correctly not done in the Report, but if the data is placed in 12 months and compared to 12 months, you will get a completely different picture, which is relevant and which can only be measurable in these discussions. In these relations, there is no difficulty that the entity's budgets for 1999 will be fully abolished with the BiH state budget and I ask you to declare that budget as soon as possible, so that this job could be done on time in the entity parliaments. It is not a special difficulty and depends only on the efficiency of the work of this home, when we will have final figures and commitment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4011	A Lagumdžija, a replica and a false quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4012	I appreciate Mr. Bičakčić's extraordinary efforts to show our reality better than she is, because it's possible that some people are better off than that. But most people are no better than that. Bičakčić suppose you should know, by the World Bank classification, that countries that, I say, are associated with the World Bank, with which the World Bank, the UN member states, are grouped into five categories. So-called ... countries of low income, countries... countries of lower or medium income, of those five categories to draw your attention to the facts that you would need to know, that high income countries include countries that have $2.890... per capita head and that belongs, fortunately, to the country from which our current president, Mr. Petritsch, Austria, comes. Then countries such as "appelmirl" are countries that have $4.540 per capita income, and that includes, for your information, Barbadosi and Bocvana, that is Croatia. I will not mention to you that we have to skip one, the lower middle countries include Belarus, Bolivia, Georgia, Guatemala, we are not there, Bulgaria is here. In the lower... countries are located BiH, check out, if you do not know I will be very happy to give you any publication you want on this topic, which includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi, Honduras and all the apartments Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and others, there is BiH with $990... in the last year, in line with the World Bank publications, that I am not worrying you... about the methodologies used. Unfortunately, you can only at the advice of the president of the Federation of BiH sell the story that the Federation of BiH has income, that it has GDP, that it has drawn close to Bulgaria, I wish you were right, but you can talk about it there. You cannot say at any relevant meeting that, unfortunately, Bulgaria has become the West for BiH, what it has never been in its history, with such a presentation to the BiH Parliament, whether you know this or not. I don't know what's worse than these two steps that make you worse. If you knew this information or if you didn't know, and you dared to go to the BiH Parliament with such an act. As for the fact that you thought it was true here, and it's not a fact, so it's not true, that you've carried out your duties 100%. That's not true. You have carried out 100% of your commitments to the Budget of the Joint Institutions of BiH, 100% as agreed with your colleague, Mr. Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, which is, according to the report of last session, at which you, obviously, did not endure until the end to stay, where you are finely seen here and, among other things, this report has fallen and that you have fulfilled together, agreedly, whatever you want to call it, the budget commitments with 74.1% of what was planned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4013	I'm asking you to stay away from the point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4014	What a distance from the point. The man says he's 100% fulfilled his obligation, and I'm telling him it's not 100%, but 74.1%, and you're saying it's a distance from the point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4015	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the distinguished guests, my replica refers to Mr Lagumdžija's remarks from the last time he spoke to the chairman so uncomfortablely. It is not right, gentlemen, from the SDP, to condemn today's way of organising the Assembly and to address the distinguished members of the Council of Europe as officials. You who all the time advocate to join the Council of Europe and are full of the mouth of the Council of Europe, this time with such a statement you were not exactly in place.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4016	I am not going to comment here on the allegations of Lagumdžija's MPs in relation to the issues before certain institutions, since it is not a place on this body, and that there are prominent scientists at these meetings who can replicate for themselves what they consider to be incorrect. However, the fact is that the gross social product in BiH last year is more than $1000 and that the increase in gross social product compared to the state of pre-transition in BiH is much greater than the countries that entered the transition and did not have war or destruction in this area. Inside BiH, the fact is that the Federation of BiH has 60% more gross social product than RS. It's facts and data that can't argue with some propaganda flossules, which we can verify at a group of some scientists, who can say more about this area than the two of us who belong to that energy lobby. Things look what they look like, and what in the World Bank's categorization is in a particular field, there are reasons, and these things can also be very clear and transparently explained. They lie in the fact that it is necessary to continue to negotiate with the World Bank on the reprogramming of our inherited and old debts. It's good for BiH that it's in that position to get more significant IDA funds from credit lines, and that's where you put us all. Unfortunately, we will lead you out of that delusion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4017	I really want to say to my esteemed colleague that there's no need to replace the thesis of who said what. Repeat. Mr. Foreign Minister of Ireland, Mr. 83 The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and two other members of the delegation that are members of the Council of Europe, as Parliamentarians, should be found a suitable place for them, followed by an army of their officials and they should not sit in the same place as them. Also, not even Mr. Foreign Minister of Ireland should take a seat as an MP, but should find a suitable place, it is very clear that we have one amongst ourselves. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Bičakčić, we've obviously ended the controversy for today. I believe that you have the opportunity to calculate that we are better off than the World Bank and other relevant international institutions claim. I know that you have a lot of experience convincing people that they're great, but that's what they haven't figured out yet and I really have no intention of correcting you from today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4018	Is it a replica, Rakić? There's a malkić discussion, a man to let go of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4019	The Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, I must draw the president's attention, and we are here to witness how a pay phone can be misused. That is why I would ask the chairman to prevent the abuse of speakers, a pre-election campaign to leave other opportunities for certain MPs, and now I would refer to the Budget issue. The structural representation of the budget users, in the positions of the Council of Ministers of BiH, reads the sentences: the offices of the co-chair and chair and the service. I would ask that for technical reasons, since the Constitutional Court has called and said this term is unconstitutional to erase this, this sentence just to delete and to stand position 4 without this sentence. In position 6, which speaks of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, in an item referring to the refugee programme, a qualitative shift has been made compared to last year's Budget for some 3.3 times more funds. However, given the adopted Law on Refugees from BiH and displaced persons in BiH, given the commitments adopted under the Law, I believe that this is insufficient and I am asking for an increase in this amount, and on the basis of the reasons for this budget, it is said that as much funds as the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications has requested, that it is requested possibly more, it would probably be approved more, so I ask that this item be increased so that we can meet the needs that are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4020	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of discussing this subject today, but I simply feel that a few things should be said. First, whenever we enter a constructive debate and we need to discuss this budget seriously, we get one debate with political programmes, without even one concrete proposal, by proving that nothing works in BiH and that nothing is wrong in BiH. We had such a debate and last time, so that the same ones who participated in the discussion, 70% would ask us to continue the debate until fatigue, all night, until we finish the agenda, taking care of the efficiency of 84 of our work and the realization of the agenda. Unfortunately, with such discussions, we become who we are, we become inefficient and instead of looking at what's on the agenda and discussing it seriously, and this is the Draft, and that on the basis of this draft of the gentlemen who propose this budget, they give some explanations and that, based on these explanations, we effectively adopt this budget at the next session. We've heard big words here, in various areas. We've been given a lecture on everything, and this budget is what it is and it's called what it is and it's the constitutional category of that budget. We need to prove something else, make a lot of problems and wrap it up into some other foil and show the people that, well, we're not doing anything, that there's no economic policy in this country or any other policy, and that we should be the ones here who we're going to judge, no matter what the Constitution has authorized and who needs to do it. Therefore, I am dissatisfied with it, Mr. Chairman, please lead this assembly on the agenda and interrupt anyone who goes outside the agenda. We have clear categories in the budget and let us discuss clear categories, not to be refugees and many things, to show, because we all know that behind this budget and behind this income there is absolutely nothing we can do to help refugees, but we can only help with one policy, quite another, with one good will and with what we need to do to program it. It's important to talk to the people behind this speaker and it's important to create a political platform for everything that needs to come here. In the end, I'll say two or three things about Budget. I was discussing this Budget last year and I said I disagreed with him, but we should have adopted him, so we adopted him. This year, I know for sure that the RS Assembly adopted its budget and adopted this amount to fund the joint bodies of 14.900,000 marks. I also know that the budget adopted funds to service a foreign debt of 73 million marks. What I said last year, that it cannot be adopted in this budget, what has not been passed through the Parliament of the Federation of BiH and the RS, it is not accepted, so we are discussing it now, because we want to show that we are someone who should constantly beat someone down in entities, what they are doing, how they do nothing. The biggest problems are with them, and social policy and every other policy is there and all the other problems are there, but it's important to degrade the entities, to show that we are the ones here who decide everything and everyone has to talk to us and everyone has to account for us, whether it's a constitutional category or not. So, I think, as far as income goes, this budget is quite realistic. As for the spending party, I have some remarks here, but I guess when we get these materials, we should also look into the procedure when the Budget is adopted at the next assembly, we will also make some suggestions and we should take care of these discussions that have been given and the remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4021	Ambassador Špirić Replic, I just don't know who, Mr. Rakić. 85
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4022	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that I agree with Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's disappointment that none of the promoters of this document are here. It may bother someone if someone here is called publicly, but this is the BiH Parliament to say something publicly about the BiH institutions' budget. I ask people who are willing to replicate, to replicate on the basis of arguments. To speak here, to be pleased with the degree of BiH's development and with the social situation in BiH, I don't know who can. There, yesterday, workers of Zenica Gležezar said what they wanted in BiH. They want people to eat bread, and we're talking about $1,000. Ask these people if they're not BiH residents, if they're nobody's concern, if I'm not talking about workers in the RS and instead of opening a debate, to say that we're reducing taxes to these orphans who are going to have to pay for some document that needs to be raised in front of the President's Council for the sake of the state budgets. That, Mr. Rakić, is what we care about the MPs and it's not buying political points as far as refugees and displaced people are concerned, they seem to be no one's concern. Those who have not felt these horrors, such as they have no need, but here, Mr. Rakić, writes a category of refugees and displaced in the budget. It's not a fiction, is it, or do you think we shouldn't discuss it? I specifically suggested, there were no proposals, firstly to distribute funds within the quantity of funds, to throw a million marks from the BiH Presidency's office and the BiH Council of Ministers for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary Council. This was a concrete proposal and it is concrete that in this budget, for the sake of non-standard economic, social and any other situation, an annex that will be closed, based on donations and credit funds, is precisely for the most vulnerable category of the population, and these are refugees and displaced persons. If this parliament has no hearing, if it will not tell the international community that it has the will and desire to solve these problems, then it must be avoided and displaced persons to make sure that, instead of sitting here and worrying about our concerns, that they sit and solve their problems both in this Parliament and in the Parliament of the RS and the Federation of BiH. If they had taken care of it by chance, they'd have both their own Prime Minister and their own head of state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4023	We've heard that before.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4024	Replication is on Mr. Rakić's presentation, I don't know what he was being managed, what remarks or suggestions on the Budget Proposal to say that we are giving a lecture here, or we are preaching to entities. Please, if you question the reality of income, it is brought from the point of view of the achievements in the past year. If entities accept the obligations that have been written this year, then I think it's normal to ask for a way to implement them on the Budget Act, because the Budget Implementation Act applies both to income and expenditure. I haven't heard anyone here say that entities are guilty of not paying, but the fact that the Budget's explanation says that the revenues are more than 10% for liabilities, the entity's obligations are 10% higher, and I say they're not bigger, because when we apply to the execution that they're in their budgets, it's 50%. Therefore, it is not the entity's accusation that they did not execute, but the reality of how each of us talking about the budget's revenue side must look at 86 of what has been achieved in the past year and why, and whether changes are possible for the better. I'm glad if the entities say they are, it's okay, we just need to provide ways to keep it real. At the same time, when I answered, to tell Mr. Bičakčić, we didn't bring these obligations here under the Foreign Debt Act. I even fenced myself and said, starting with being foreseen in accordance with the Foreign Debt Act, and it is up to us to monitor whether they will be executed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4025	Thank you. We're talking about the draft of this document today. We'll have time to see if the promoter appreciates something from this discussion and changes the proposal, and then we'll have the opportunity to make amendments. I'd like to ask a few questions. Firstly, I have already heard the answer from one of the MPs in RS, but the question is whether this proposal is in line with the adopted or proposed entity budgets, so that this year's situation in which the state budget was planned more than was adopted in the entity budgets, and then we had a lag in this regard. The other thing is the question of parliamentary expenditure. There was a clear entry point for international organisations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, of 24600 KM, however, it was not approved in the Budget proposal, as shown in the specification we received. Why the quotations for the BiH Parliament's membership were thrown out to international organisations as a expenditure in this budget. Thirdly, I think, in a certain way, the means for the refugee population to, I say, be separated here by not a few elements and it seems to me that it is a significant increase, but I think the promoter would have to find some other sources to increase funds for the refugee population, in line with the possibilities, but without breaking the budget framework amount, rather than redistributing funds. The fourth one that didn't exist in the last budget, but which I'm going to say, maybe not for financial reasons as much as for political reasons. In the budgets of municipalities, cantons and entities, there are expenditures for the work of parliamentary political parties, at the level of these entities, or parliaments. In the state budget, neither in the past nor in the draft of this budget, any expenditure on that. Does this mean that political parties at BiH level do not exist? Of course, I want to say very clearly that this budget includes some of the obligations that are the Dayton Constitutional Obligations of BiH, and others are obligations based on the various decisions that are listed in the Budget points on page 4 and where other users say, and then the other institutions. Other institutions include those institutions that have not yet been formed, but are yet to be established under the law, such as the BiH Treasury, etc. and projected funds of 7.5 million marks. I would like to make it very decadent for the proposer to know that I expect, given the upcoming elections in BiH in 2000, and given the fact that there are parties running at BiH level and local and will run for general elections, to foresee even if the symbolic existence of political 87 parties in the Budget of BiH, so as not to get the impression that political parties exist, only to the borders of the entities, because it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4026	I'm going to ask Mr. Lovrić to say if he's on behalf of all three members of the presidency, or just...?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4027	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests. It's my first time in front of this tall house. I am Velimir Lovrić, adviser to the BiH presidency for the area of finance. Otherwise, the real Proposer of the Budget and the Law on Implementation is the Ministry of Civil Affairs, or the Council of Ministers of BiH, but since the BiH Presidency is mentioned, I will only say a few words, perhaps a colleague, or Minister Ašanin, will explain some points that should have been specifically explained. This is on behalf of all three members of the BiH Presidency who agreed with the proposal, and it is not the Draft but the Bill on Budgets, that is, the Budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget. The BiH Presidency has considered the draft budget three times, i.e. twice, it has returned it to the BiH Council of Ministers, and it has been very much discussing the draft budget and has strongly suggested to the BiH Council of Ministers what should and what it should look like in relations with the people of BiH today and the possibilities. I will read two decisions for the illustration, Mr. Chairman, for example, from the 61st session, which took place on 9 November. Conclusion number one. The draft budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2000 and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget has to be returned to the BiH Council of Ministers for Co-operation, in accordance with objections to those acts, etc. The conclusion of the 62nd session of the BiH Presidency of the Bill on the Implementation of the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations for 2000 and the BiH Institutions' Budget and International Obligations for 2000 is to be returned to the BiH Council of Ministers, which means for the second time, with a request for a review of all budget items. 2. The Council of Ministers of BiH is asked to maintain the level of salaries for the 2000 budget and to review the possibilities for inclusion among beneficiaries of the 2000 budget, the Border Services, the Secretariat, the Permanent Military Commission, the Committee for the Audit of Citizenship, as well as other newly-founded services, agencies, directorates and other newly-founded users, but without increase, means expenditure, budget items. The estimated amount for all these new users, compared to the budget for the previous year, must be particularly explained. All increases in the amount of budgetary items in relation to 1999 must have particular reasons. 88 The BiH Council of Ministers is asked to review all savings opportunities in projecting the 2000 budget. So, the BiH Council of Ministers has been asked to streamline this proposal, which is, in any case, done, I will only read to you the first draft budget that was scheduled, let's say, for the Foreign Ministry 43 million marks, the second proposal was 41 million. Like, a lot of others got less than they asked for. They didn't get the number they were looking for. Then, that the estimated amounts are not increasing, but the budget has essentially increased by 10% compared to 1999, respecting the IMF's opinion that the BiH budget is in line with the entity's budget increase, entity budgets. The increase occurred in the first row, not due to an increase in the estimated costs for other expenditures, but because, in the meantime, at the end of the year, they are still under way to develop certain services, institutions, agencies, etc., from the Audit to the Border Service, etc. To be modest, what this budget is, I don't think it is particularly necessary to illustrate that it is more than modest, if it is the salary of the president of BiH, even if it was a state in such difficulty, 1,000 marks, or the salary of ambassadors, which some uninformed attacked, in Switzerland 3.5 thousand marks, which I can personally say because I was in Switzerland several times, is the salary of waiters in Switzerland, 3.5 to 4 thousand marks. So the 2000 budget is essentially higher by 10% and it is for the first time harmonised with the entity's budgets, where the international community's opinion, from the IMF to the OHR, has been respected, as well as met with the minimum requirements of BiH institutions for minimum functioning, means that they can function. It is generally envisaged, less, everything that is planned in this year, in 2000, of course there is no ideal budget, a budget that will predict everything, therefore there is rebalancing etc. On the basis of all the proposals, suggestions, as well as considerations, I said three times, the BiH presidency is unanimous, so all three members of the BiH presidency have proposed to this high house that the proposal, not the draft, but the proposal for a budget of BiH institutions, as well as international obligations, that this high house be adopted in full.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4028	Does Minister Ašanin have anything to say, if, Tokić, you allow, so we can round up their exposure? We've got five minutes left and we're gonna have to take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4029	I'm gonna try to be really short. First of all, let me inform you that this is, I think, the 10th or 15th draft we've made that's being discussed. We were in a very difficult situation when we made this draft budget, no matter what we had to respect the various demands. They weren't so dangerous for us budget users' demands, because, simply, if we were in a situation to increase and comply with his request, we couldn't even satisfy it. How dangerous the demands of others were. The first requirement to follow the first draft budget was the IMF's request. They asked us to comply with that deal that the IMF reached with 89 entities, which is that the maximum increase is 10%. After that, there was a request from the OHR. The OHR has asked for various budget users to increase. We also had to give the OHR some information and satisfy what they asked of us. There followed a request from the BiH presidency, a second request from the BiH presidency, and a third request from the BiH presidency to finally chew up the draft that is now in front of you. Now, here we come, here we are, in a situation where there are some remarks that may well be justified, and there are remarks that, in my opinion, are very, very unwarranted. There are remarks that go after Budget to be reduced, at the same time to increase, at the same time to move in, but I think we should basically support this Budget draft as it is. We, respecting what was happening in the first part of the session, and exactly respecting the MPs and what they were putting in the first part of the session, have today provided material that is more concrete and in which it is more detailed what is envisaged, what are the revenues, what are the expenditures and how further. I think from this material, given that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has decided that this decision-making material is not treated as a proposal, but as a draft. I think from that material, with the contribution that we delivered today, you'll have the opportunity to look at the reality of all the budget items that have been sent to you. I know very well that you're all right, what's planned for refugees is very little, but compared to last year, it's very much. We don't have a place to withdraw funds. We just don't. Maybe someone, asked a question, here, after the president warned me. I would ask you to take this opportunity and provide us with comments so we can get into a situation to talk about the proposal, not the draft.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4030	Dear Members of the Parliament, I will, with the consent of the two of us from the College, terminate the work at this point by 3:00. At 3:00, we'll continue our regular work. Now we will take a break until half-one when our guests from the Council of Europe join us and, of course, delegates will join us at the House of Peoples. This work will last from half one to three, with all the activities planned, in 3 we continue to work regularly where we have now stopped at this point of the agenda and the first one will receive the word Mr. Tokić, in three hours. At half-one, there is a discussion with representatives of the Council of Europe, announced at the previous session. There is no special agenda, but has simply their desire to speak to the delegates of the House of Peoples and MPs of the House of Representatives. Up to 12 and 30. We're here at 12:30. You will be informed, MP. / CONTINUE/ Gentlemen, honourable MPs, esteemed geese, I suggest we continue our work. We stopped at the 4th point, the word has an MP Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4031	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, chairman, do I not know if my question concerns the Council of Europe delegation?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4032	I think you forgot, MP, that you applied for a fourth-point hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4033	In any case, as regards this budget, on behalf of the SDP, the SDP Club, to clarify the situation, given that it is further clouded by the fact that the representative of the BiH Presidency is literally behind this speaker, after all the discussions, the debate, a large number of proposals, suggestions, which should be fundamentally changed by Budžet, said that this is not a draft but rather a proposal for the BiH presidency, as a proposal for Budget. The message was very clear. What you said at the PSBiH House of Representatives, as far as the BiH presidency is concerned, as a proposing, you spoke for nothing. In view of this fact, and all that we have stated as observations and requests for the creation of Budget, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I ask that the PSBiH House of Representatives be made known on the following conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives does not accept the draft budget from the mandated proposing, the BiH Presidency, and is asking for the new text to be drawn up on the basis of proposals, suggestions, proposals, the BiH Presidency, or the Budget. Since it is our view that this draft budget cannot be the basis for a high-quality budget proposal, given the position the BiH presidency representative had just said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4034	Here, we heard the discussion. Anyone else want to take this? We now have two suggestions for conclusions. It is one thing to add the draft to the comments and suggestions made by MPs, thus making a proposal to be submitted to the PSBiH House of Representatives for adoption. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Tokić, which says that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives does not accept the draft budget and asks for a new draft draft draft to be drawn up on the basis of proposals and suggestions. Does anyone have a third proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4035	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would not like to replicate anyone, but I would like to say my personal opinion, as an economist and expert, as a man who has not worked on the draft itself, this has been done by the Council of Ministers of BiH, but I have not personally heard, indeed, any quality proposal that would require the development of a new draft, etc., indeed. I prefer this as a contribution to the discussion from last session on the need for efficiency, I mean Mr. Tokić. I think nothing more serious is going to happen, the BiH Presidency, I said, has discussed the draft three times, indeed studioically, responsibly, you have seen, it has returned to the BiH Council of Ministers, the OHR, the IMF, has found space for all possible services that are founded and which will be justified and there has been no increase of 10% that has been harmonised, we said, with the entity budget increasing and that it is minimum that the state can function. You can never make an ideal budget, it's normal, which will satisfy today at the beginning of 2000 everything. What happens at the end of 2000. 91 I, in that sense, ask this high house to respect and support this proposal from the BiH Presidency and to vote in the budget. I think it will be in BiH's interest.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4036	I'm asking you to stay, sir, that's the third conclusion here. I'm asking you to just specify. So you're asking for today's vote as a proposal? If I understand you correctly, it's a new situation. I'll get all three things, I'll put everything on. Do you have the authority to say that on behalf of the BiH presidency? You forget about one fact that the PSBiH House of Representatives, by adopting the agenda, has accepted that the budget is being discussed as a draft, and not as a proposal, and I now just have to put this on the agenda, and that's no use, because the agenda has been established, there's no need to put it on the agenda. It's impossible to vote on your conclusion, because we brought...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4037	I really think that in the parliamentary session it is logical to go out for a pay phone and not speak from the place and that's the only reason why I went out, and as far as the painting is concerned, the painting stopped the moment, at least as far as TV BiH is concerned, when the gentlemen of the Council of Europe left, so, as it was taken, so you don't have to worry about that painting. I would just beg here a very clear one, here there was a certain way of insinuating that SDP now as slowing down the efficiency of action. I would remind you, both you and the public of BiH, the SDP asked in September to begin the debate on the making of Budgets, i.e. the budget, and in serious parliaments, serious institutions, to start already in the second half of the year debate on this. Therefore, the responsibility we did not particularly want to discuss here is, among other things, the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, which allowed it to begin, de facto, a year without the adopted budget. On that line of constant institutions, year after year, shifting efficiency, insistence on the importance of the Budget, and every time with the same story, we don't have time, we're not ready to influence this time and we're looking to make a serious budget.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4038	Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. We heard everything. Two conclusions. Two suggestions for conclusions. The first proposal for a conclusion is next. The draft budget is accepted, provided that the remarks and suggestions of MPs are incorporated into the draft budget and such a proposal is submitted for adoption of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Do we understand the conclusion? That's another conclusion. This is a proposal to the Kolegijum, based on the discussion. Is there any need to still...? The second proposal of the SDP MPs' Club is, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives does not accept the BiH Budget Draft and asks that the proponent, based on remarks and suggestions from MPs, draw up a new draft, a new proposal. Then we're on the same page. Okay, it's not a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, it's a neck, Here's a new proposal. Mr. 92 Tokić, you said a draft. If you don't accept the draft. We can see in the stenogram, Mr. Tokić, you suggested the conclusion I read. You dictate yours.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4039	I've dictated, the chairman, and I'm asking you to present it correctly. I said, make a new text of the budget. As far as we are concerned, if all of these suggestions and suggestions are respected, we are not entering the form with which the BiH Presidency will go, may be a draft, may be the proposal and the last sentence of my discussion, that is, the conclusion was, since the draft text of the Budget cannot be used as a basis for making a quality proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4040	Please dictate to me the full conclusion, so it doesn't.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4041	I dictated, take the job, take a break, and don't question any more MPs here like...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4042	Sir, please stop doing the show here because I hear it well. Stop doing that. You can do it somewhere else. This is the Assembly. You've heard, therefore, gentlemen, his suggestion, I don't want to repeat it, because I can't repeat it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4043	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, it seems to me that there is an agreement here on a few matters. The first thing is that these MPs do not accept this as a proposal, but as a draft document and it seems to me that this agreement, initiated by the two commissions, is particularly the relevant Budget Commission, is a big message to the BiH presidency, as a formal, or constitutional proposal from the Budget. The other thing is that MPs have shown reservations towards the overall budget, i.e. the way they are made, as well as according to certain items in the budget. The third thing is, which characterizes the SDP proposal, that this text cannot serve as a basis for making Budgets, that is one quite, I would say, the most radical, in its character, demand in this respect in which we should commit. It seems to me that perhaps, with a good will and a little additional consultation in a break, there might be a proposal for a harmonised conclusion that would bring the College together with representatives of political parties. But what I want to say is, in any case, and when it comes to the first conclusion, that the BiH presidency should be suggested that Budget can be changed and that it should be changed in accordance with our discussion, but in my opinion, Budget should not be able to break the budget level to an absolute extent as foreseen for the financing of BiH institutions and the service of external debt. I think that 93 we should stay in the proposed amount of Budget, and that this cannot be changed and that we can change certain items within the structure of this projected Budget, and in this respect, I am prepared to support the first proposal that was presented here in principle. However, it would be good, Mr. Chairman, if we were to try to find a compromise on these two conclusions, if possible, and if not, let it remain as it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4044	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have an absolutely clear situation and there's no need to further complicate something that's quite clear. I think that the Commission's position and I will read it: the Commission has concluded that the budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations can serve as the basis for making the proposal, with consideration of proposals and suggestions given, which means that the BiH Presidency, as constitutional promoter, needs to deliver a stenogram from this session and we will see what kind of proposal we will get. We can't prejudge things now. Let's not really complicate it. So that was the Commission's proposal, which also includes representatives of BiH's SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4045	Please, I'm reading the first draft conclusion. The BiH institution's Draft Budget, BiH's international commitments for 2000, is accepted on the condition that the remarks and suggestions of MPs are installed in drafting the BiH institutions' draft budget and international commitments for 2000. How many are present in the hall? - 30. Please, we heard. Who's in? - 24 Who's against it? Abstained – 6 entitetski, from the Federation of BiH, who is in favour? – 13 From RS – 12 I find the proposal accepted. That the proposal for a conclusion was accepted in this form as I read it and that this draft, with comments and suggestions, goes into the making of the proposal. The second proposal for a conclusion, did the Proposer ask to vote on it as well? There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm closing the fourth item of the agenda and we're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. Ad.5. Draft Law on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of BiH for 2000 Please the President of the Budget and Finance Commission to submit a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4046	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we, within this first item of the agenda that we have just concluded, have partly discussed the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and the international obligations of BiH for 2000. But I will state the position of 94 Commission. The Commission proposes to the PSBiH House of Representatives that the Law on the Implementation of the Budgets of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2000 is being considered in the form of a Draft, which is logical, as the draft budget is also being returned to the stage of the draft, so I think it makes sense. The observations of the members of the Commission refer to Article 1 in the sense that only the Budget is established by the Law. In Article 3, item 2, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Presidency are added. In Article 4, delete external donations and donations, since they are not available in the Budget Draft, therefore, the Draft or Proposal must comply with the Implementation Act. The law on execution can't be a source that's not in the Budget Proposal, it doesn't make sense. So, in that sense. In Article 12, in place, which has the current reserve with the suggestion of submitting a 12-month report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, it is therefore suggested that it be the Council of Ministers of BiH and that MPs are added to Article 13 for the payment of fees, as the category of MPs in that item is, I suppose, technically omitted, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4047	This law has been discussed by the Constitutional Commission and considers it to have a constitutional basis and there is no need for any particular explanation. The president agrees there's no need. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4048	All the remarks the previous commission has made, we believe they are justified and we accept them.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4049	Mr. Chairman, in this law, these first five members are about the structure of Budget, the users of Budget, etc. and immediately goes Article 6 which says that the users of the Budget can use the budget only for the purpose of a specific budget, so this is decidently stressed, which is very important. I therefore bind Article 21, where it says "if an authorised employee, when carrying out the budget proposal, finds that the Law, second regulation or act has been violated", I skip one part of the text and says, among other things, "confirms that the irregularities committed have the character of a criminal offence, can be reported as a criminal offence". Now in Article 31, the last member, both of these members, means 6 and 21 are read, for this article says: “Responsible persons are punished for the offence and 1. if they do not use the budget for the purpose to which they are intended and if the person assumes the obligation, ” etc. The question is, can anything be done that has the mark of a crime here? If he can't, then it's a crime, right there in a member of the one I cited on the 21st, to be deleted, and if he can, then in Article 31, or in Article 32, in some additional, he needs to define exactly what the mark of the crime here is. Well, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4050	Here, we heard your remark. 95
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4051	I was partly talking about this law when I was talking about the budget, and now I would just suggest that in this revenue side of the budget, in the law, the collection of all revenue is regulated and the income from entities and administrative fees. Nikola said these external donations and donations, when we predict them in Budget, should be in the Budget Implementation Act. In Article 1, I would suggest that this word of Budget be deleted because this law determines the budget and the way in which the budget is executed. The previous document sets out the Budget, and this determines only the way in which the budget is executed and I propose that in Article 5, the investment is divided into the operating costs of the investment, i.e. the investment that we treat separately.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4052	Since there are no more reports, I suggest that the Proposer make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4053	Given that this is a draft, as the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has determined, I propose that all these remarks, i.e. a stenogram, be delivered, and we will then prepare the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4054	I would only, as it is a draft, urge again to try to get to the Law on the original incomes of BiH institutions as soon as possible, and in this law, in Article 4, in the structure of the budget's income, to begin to figure out the words of the original budget revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4055	Any other suggestions? If not, I suggest the next conclusion. A draft law on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for the year 2000 is adopted, provided that the proposal includes the comments and suggestions of the proposings and submits such a proposal for consideration to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Didn't I tell the MP? I'm sorry, really, I overlooked it. So, the draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000 is adopted, provided that MPs' observations and suggestions are incorporated into the proposal and submit such a proposal for consideration to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Any objections to the conclusion? We accept parole. Some say it's good, some say it's not. You can't say. Okay, Mr. Špirić, we'll formulate it now. So, a draft law on the implementation of the BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2000 is adopted as the basis for making proposals, with remarks and suggestions from MPs. Are you okay with this now? Great. How many are there? - 29. We have an MP who wants to say something. No, he's voting. 96 Who's in? - 24 Who's against-- no. Abstention 5 Any objections to the voting process? There isn't. By entities, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 13. From the RS, who's in? 12 I conclude that the draft law on the implementation of the BiH Budget and the international commitments for the year 2000 was adopted in the proposed form. Thank you very much. I'm closing the fifth item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth point. Ad.6. Report on the public debate and the submission of the drafts (a) Election Law, Proposer Drago Ljubičić (b) Election Law, Proposer, Group of SDP Club MPs I call on Election Law Proposer Drago Ljubičić to submit the exposés. We have an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4056	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to Mr. drag Ljubičić, since with us today, the respected Mr. Fransoa Moris, who is the chairman of the Working Party for making the Electoral Law, has the next question for Mr. Moris, who has, among other things, given several interviews and statements, and two statements specifically draw attention to the MPs of the SDP and ask for answers. The first statement in the daily newspaper “avaz” in which Mr Moris reportedly said it was not guilty that a number of people in BiH were living in the wrong place, and another statement from a prominent NGO dealing with Southeast Europe in “Free Bosnia”, in a magazine, where Mr Moris allegedly told him that the electoral law must be as it is, because BiH is not a state and will be divided. We kindly ask Mr Moris to state these certificates or deny, so that the SDP MPs' Club has its position on further discussion of the Electoral Law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4057	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That doesn't diminish the procedure I predicted here in the agenda. That's what you can do when the proposed exposure is over. Mr. Moris will have a chance to answer maybe a lot of other questions if there are. I call again on the Proposer Drago Ljubičić to take his word for it. I didn't take a break, but I'll give it to you if you insist, it's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4058	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not dispute the right of MPs to seek a break of 5, 10, 15 minutes, as long as it takes, but I want to draw public attention to the need to conduct a debate on the essence. The alleged statements by anyone and in any list, which are not related to the Electoral Law, have nothing to do with public bidding in front of the BiH public. The proposal will be made clear on all publicly spoken matters and amendments, related to one and the other electoral law. It would be good, if necessary, for Mr Moris to consult with the SDP, but don't bother us here with any questions referred to this one or that one. I ask you to spare your fellow MPs, and leave any inconsistencies related to any statement, in any daily list, outside this House. Don't, I'm talking, and you can ask Mr. Moris why he got up at 8:00 this morning, and he's not at half past 9:00, and that's if you think he's your right of Parliament, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4059	Is it a replica? If you don't want a replica, there's a Mr. Dokić who speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4060	Representatives, MPs, regarding the discussion Mr Špirić had just before and where he referred to the SDP, to be quite clear, we want the gentleman to legitize himself as chairman of the expert commission, if he legislates with such statements, then, please, we have a very different relationship, not only after the debate on this election law, but we will ask that many things come here on the agenda as a priority. If someone in this hall, in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, considers those statements irrelevant to the Election Law, we are certainly not on that side and we insist on being here, we did not want to polarise on the daily newspaper. We've been waiting for this session and I'm asking Mr. Franso to come forward. I think we should interrupt any replicas. Our intention is to have the chairman legitize himself and know who we're talking to. Whether we are talking to the chairman of an expert group who has the task of creating an Electoral Law, afirming multiethnicity, BiH as a state of equal peoples and citizens, I am talking about the document of the Madrid Declaration, because they have given tasks for the Electoral Law, or we have a different chairman. That will follow, I hope right now and we will be able to continue working on the Electoral Law. It is very important for the SDP to pass the Election Law in accordance with the Madrid Declaration.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4061	Gentlemen, I'd like to warn you that if we open the process here in the Assembly of seeking answers to statements in the media, even in the pubs, then we won't be doing our job. Please, if the SDP insists on taking a break, give them a break and let them talk to the people alone. I'm not ready to sit here and listen to anyone's answer to anyone's words in the media. Let that same medium be calculated. What someone said here at the congregation pay phone, that's why we have the right to be explained.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4062	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, Mr. Morion is the chairman of the State Commission for the Making of Election Law. Election law is an act of importance right behind the Constitution of the State. A statement quoted in a weekly list said that the chairman of the State Election Commission said "At the same time, BiH is not a real country" etc. If it were a statement related to the Kafan atmosphere, for other issues that are not essential, I would fully respect the argument that the answer is given in some private conversation. However, since it is an act of such importance, and since it is a Commission of state importance, these answers should be given publicly in the BiH Parliament to be declared on the bill's proposal. The attitude of the gentleman who chaired the State Commission is very important, because he had the opportunity to influence the content and essence of the Election Law. Therefore, the CD Coalition Club insists that the answer be made before the debate, publicly here from this place, because, depending on the answer, we will treat the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4063	I have one replica, so there's one replica of the other. Dear gentlemen, don't diminish the public. You're the same one who's talking right now, saying you don't know Mr. Moris, and you don't know any expert group, but you know Draga Ljubičić. What do you want now? What is this? Is this, gentlemen, the new show you want to make here? Please, publicly, the same you who are saying this now, you have spoken for us there is a Proposer Drago Ljubičić. Ask Draga Ljubičić what you want to ask Mr. Moris. Now all of a sudden, you're respecting Mr. Moris, so far you've failed to respect him. What right do you do with it, gentlemen? I, publicly, as an MP, protest this kind of behavior, and I think it's been calculated to interfere with the draft debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4064	I'm asking the SDP gentlemen to make themselves known here in this situation. What are these attacks on Mr. Moris about reading the papers? What is it that's written in the paper? Is that true what the paper says? You can write anything and everything in the paper, is that an argument? Please, this is not like one MP, and especially the party that claims to be the leading party in the Federation of BiH tomorrow, and even in the premises of all BiH, that is not the way. The same you who advocated in our previous session here, from this pay phone, Mr. Bogić Bogičević and said: “I will ask the High Representative to declare the Law and that in the worse version.”
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4065	Ladies and gentlemen, we've adopted the agenda and agreed on a way to work. We have concluded a public debate on the draft law, the electoral one and the other, and we have agreed that today we have the opening statements of one and the other Proposer and on the basis of these opening statements to plead. This play that you are now performing, gentlemen of the SDP and the CD Coalition gentlemen, is a performance and a preparation of theatres to reject this law of the international community. I mean it on purpose. Let it be known. You're not in line with the Dayton BiH. The bill of elections was made for Dayton BiH, and those ugly expressions used by someone, normal and abnormal and such a state, should only serve the people who use it that way. We have determined 99 to work, live and build such BiH, therefore, and we will pass such laws. All those other sick ambitions that are being made in all sorts of ways, thank them, let them make those who did because they knew in '91. to create and degrade both the former Yugoslavia and BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4066	Dear colleagues, the chairman, honourable fellow MPs, above all, I would like here to, for I don't know which time, direct the criticism, Mr. Chairman, to you, because I think you've allowed your tolerance to take us off the adopted agenda. If I'm not mistaken, by this point of the agenda, you've already called on Mr Ljubičić to file a report on the public debate, when it comes to election law. However, I have, in any case, appeared and offered with such discussions and I would like to say only one thing and in this way I would refer to Mr Rakić's discussion, which is, I have the feeling that now an atmosphere is being created which was created before the announcement, i.e. the imposition of the Electoral Law, from a certain number here fellow MPs. I want here to also point out and underline that, in any case, as one of the MPs here, of 42 MPs, I am certainly one of those who I am in favour of the adoption of the electoral law and the fulfilment of one of the conditions set by the Council of Europe for Membership. However, I will again certainly be one of the first to vote against such a draft or draft election law not based on the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH and RS. In that context, I, Mr. President, and with that I will conclude, I pray once again and call on you to hold on to the agenda, to invite the promoters to make a statement here, to bring forward a public debate so far, which I am sure, I am now deeply convinced, to provoke safe discussions and other, remarks and suggestions, of the other fellow Members. I already know now that I will certainly participate in such discussions, because for that I have a fat argument.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4067	Very briefly, please, since the Coalition is also mentioned, there is no need to clarify and interpret the views of individual parties, there is no need or reason to create an opening performance, because the Coalition and MPs of the Coalition will, very clearly and reasonedly, say whether they are for the Law or against the Law, at least we have the right to do so. But we insist that anyone who does any work for BiH is very clear, or is fenced by attitudes that question the integrity, sovereignty and all attributes of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4068	I give our distinguished guest Franso Moris my word if he wants to answer the question. Mr. Moris wants to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4069	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I find it a great honor to have the opportunity to speak before you today, even if that means I'm giving answers to lies and gossip which is not so pleasant, which I've read in two 100 newspapers recently. First of all, it concerns a statement made by someone from a US organization visiting BiH, who quoted some of my sentences that I allegedly told him once and somewhere. I absolutely deny that I've ever said anything like that or even thought of anything like that. The second thing, I read it yesterday in a daily newspaper here, concerns the statements of an unknown high-ranking official from one of the parties here, who wants to remain anonymous and who spoke again about some of the things I allegedly said. None of that fits the truth. That's what I never said, not once. I have spoken very often in public and through radio and television and newspapers and during all of my public interventions, I have never said anything but what I will now say to you again. I truly believe that this electoral law is the key to the future of BiH, as a sovereign state and as a member of an integrated Europe that includes both the West and the East. I sincerely believe in the future of BiH and as president of the Working Group on Election Law, I am working hard for this better future of this country. During those countless hours we spent working at the Working Group on Election Law, none, none of the members of that group could ever hear me say anything similar to the nonsense published in the media and said by those very brave anonymous people. Finally, let them be my final words to this address, I will say this, I sincerely believe in this country and its institutions, first of all, in its Parliament. I have had the opportunity to sit in two parliaments and therefore I know very well what parliament represents, which is his responsibility, and I know that you will be able to conduct a debate that will really fit and similar to this key and essential law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4070	Thank you very much, Mr. Moris. Are you giving up your break? You're giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4071	Ladies and gentlemen, after this brief confession, I hope nothing, Mr Moris, I must say, would it please some MPs by any chance to make a statement that BiH is, say, America? BiH, gentlemen, has been clearly defined by the BiH Constitution and the Dayton Agreement. So please, there's no need, at least for an MP there shouldn't be a dilemma about what BiH is. I think that everything that is not in line with the agenda is like anything but the debate on the BiH Electoral Law. I have no reason to, for the first time, to see an honorable gentleman, or to be his lawyer, or to defend him, but unfortunately, I must defend the BiH Constitution against MPs who have sworn at least to know what BiH is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4072	Please, I will now give my word to one and another Proposer. I would like to remind you, the agenda item is called the Public Discussion Report and the Proposer's statement on the Draft. I beg you, there will be no debate. We said what we had in the debates so far. The promoter should be made clear about what we have noticed, one and the other, which we, I say, have put in mind dilemmas, in the light of ambiguity, in the light of new remarks, new proposals, that is, here you go, Mr. Ljubičić. I don't see any reason why we're having this debate right now. There's no need. We've said everything so far. They have their own to say. Well, what do they say, they think so, I guess. It can only be a question and an answer. We finished the discussion according to the drafts. The questions and the answers we didn't. This will be a statement today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4073	Mr. Chairman, respected, distinguished gentlemen from the international community, gentlemen from the Council of Ministers of BiH, gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, as the item of the agenda has been defined and adopted, when it comes to election law, I have no intention of taking up much of your time here, the item of the agenda is the Information of the Proposer on the implementation of the draft electoral law that has been working and proposed by the Working Group, as we just heard from Mr. Genjac, at the level of the state of BiH. The president of the Working Group who worked on this draft is also Mr. Moris, whom we just had a chance to hear. Personally, I don't think my role here is particularly high. I think it is also known to this representative council, as I have appeared in the role of the promoter, and therefore I would ask the BiH Representative Council to respect this fact and what the chairman, Mr Banjac, has suggested here, which is an opportunity to further discuss this and the draft law proposed by the SDP parliamentary group, along with what I have been told of one and another draft of the Electoral Law, with one note from me. I think it is clear to all of us that in the further debate of the BiH Representative Council, as well as the Council of People, one of these plans should come to a further parliamentary procedure and I hope that we will be in a position to continue this further debate in Parliament and to respect the deadline when it comes to the adoption of this electoral law, with a maximum respect for the facts and our obligations that we have accepted when BiH is in the Council of Europe and the conditions relating to the process. One of the conditions is the Electoral Law, which we have been informed of by Mr. Beri, should be adopted by the beginning of February. I hope, then, at the very least, that we will honor that deadline. As far as the information on the draft election law is concerned, where I appear in the role of the promoter, I think you all know the course of the public debate, certainly that I have accepted my obligation to submit one brief piece of information about this debate, meaning, with the fact that I have accepted the role of the legislator of this law. In the context of the public debate so far, we are obliged to attend at least one of these most present and other people who have been interested and who are still interested in this electoral law, the part of the roundtables that are foreseen in the part of the public debate and which have been organised and held, in which part of the debate on this draft law has been held. We had an opportunity within these round tables, 102 also, to hear certain remarks, opinions, suggestions, meaning those present on the proposed draft. As part two and the obligations under this public debate, these were public debates within the Council of Representatives and debates within the Council of People. I would also like to point out that, in the context of these discussions that we have been under obligation and that it is also done in the opportunity that from MPs and delegates, it means, from MPs in the Representative Council and from delegates in the Council of Peoples, we hear, too, your, or the opinions of delegates in the House of Peoples, proposals when it comes to the proposed draft. It's part of that debate, which means it's been held. I also want to point out one fact that is also important here. After that, part of the public debate was held, the Working Group accepted and I think they also respected the Decision of the Representative Council and the Council of Peoples. They gave their answers and gave their legal opinion and interpretation of all these questions, observations and proposals, simply put, they gave, they expressed their position, so on these issues, by these proposals, which I think is also very important, meaning, in the context of this debate, it was, as I recall, a new conclusion and a Representative Council and it was one of the conclusions and the Council of People. I think the Working Group respected it, and I think all MPs got it in writing. I think it is also important to note that we are within the framework of this procedure that is envisaged, and what you also have on you, which is an integral part of this information, which means what you asked for, here I am talking about, is the position and opinion of the Council of Ministers of BiH on the draft electoral law, as well as the opinion and attitude of the gentlemen of the BiH Presidency. I would like to point out that we have the opinion of two members of the BiH presidency here. We don't have the opinion of a third member of the BiH presidency. We do not have the opinion of members of the RS Presidency, Mr Radišić, in writing, whether I said it well or not, and we have the opinion of Mr Jelavić and Mr Izetbegović. It was also supposed to be part of this information and I want to mention it. As far as I'm concerned, I think it's enough, when it comes to public debate and all this that's been done and done in the public debate so far, when it comes to this draft law. In the end, I'd like to just say something. I suggest, and I expect, that an effort will be made at this session of the Council of Representatives, with one fact and, behold, a previous meeting that we had today, a conversation with the gentlemen of the Council of Europe and the Council, with high figures. I think we have also realized today that we have accepted the obligation today, when it comes to BiH's accession process to the Council of Europe. I want to mention it again. I wouldn't want to talk about it much this time. I just want to point out today, when it comes to the Election Law, that it is one of the conditions and those conditions that BiH, which means BiH institutions, should do and do. We have all supported this process, so, therefore, I expect that within that framework, meaning certain deadlines, we will make maximum effort when it comes to this law and continue this parliamentary debate and this procedure on this law and that, at least as far as this law is concerned, we will adopt this law, that we will not be in a position and opportunity to be imposed by the High Representative. This is an opportunity for certain things to be improved on this law compared to some of the previous times. 103 To me today, the role of the promoter is a little easier that Mr. Moris is here with us, as president of this task force, and, to any question today in this debate, answers will be given by Mr. Moris.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4074	I ask the Proposer, in order to do quality work further, all the answers to all the questions asked are given in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4075	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4076	So, you, as a proponent, are behind those answers. We need to know, because the MPs will be asking you questions. That's what we need to know, that's going to be the first question. I think that makes perfect sense. For the record, we're not asking double questions. There's no need to set it up. The answers were given in writing, you read them, the man stands behind it and we move on. It's just some clarifications that might be at stake. I ask the representative of the SDP to present the exposés. I think he's taking out the exposés and then we're having a discussion about one and the other. Here are the planned exposés, the motion reports. Proposer's statement, please read the point. You will now, you can't follow. I thought you'd get one and the other exposés, so they're setting up dilemmas. poslanik Rakić is right because the points are divided into a) and b). I've self-initiatedly combined it, if you object to that merger, I must accept. The dots are separated. He's right. He's right. We're opinions, if there's any opposition to being respected as it says in the agenda. Any questions for clarification?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4077	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, MPs and MPs, I must say at the very beginning, in front of the SDP of BiH, that it was a great pleasure for us to hear Mr. Franso's statement, which has made it very clear and unequivocally clear that, as the MP Bogičević said, I quote: "said," therefore, it is very clear to me once again, that your statement, an alleged statement, and we expected you to tell Parliament what you said, and that we do not think it is a great pleasure to know that the man who did such a responsible duty and who had such a responsible task, did not stand up for the division of BiH, even told us something we didn't even ask us to tell us, not that he didn't say it, but that he didn't think that it was a great encouragement for us when I was talking about the future, indeed, the law of course of BiH. We're glad to have the same wish, it's to make the law. As Mr. Fransoa said, he does not share BiH, and we fully agree with him that the election law is a key stone, quote, for the future of BiH, and that it is certainly the Electoral Law. Our goals in this sense are identical. Unfortunately, I have to admit that we disagree, which is quite 104 common in democratic procedure, that, despite our goals being the same, here we try in different ways to get there. In our opinion, the bill proposed by Mr. Ljubičić is absolutely contrary to the objectives Mr. Fransoa has set here. Since the agenda item is the debate report, I would like to draw attention to the very debate that was being held here and the few findings that arise from this. In fact, it is our view that Parliament is not familiar with the whole of the debate that has been held because there have been many more round tables, metric, professional, political debates, organised in certain assembly, entity, cantonal, expert, ceva's associations, which we expected to receive in preparation for this session. I want to draw attention to you, Mr. Banjac, that there is no need to interrupt your procedural remarks and that you are trying to explain that this is not the place to talk about these things.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4078	Please, sir, stick to the agenda, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4079	I'm sticking to the agenda, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4080	Sir, I'm running a session. When you lead, I'll understand. Let me conduct the Rules of Procedure. At the beginning of this agenda, MPs were warned. No Niko has objected, no one, so, therefore, neither you will be asking direct questions here, dilemmas, because all the answers are given by the promoters in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4081	Mr. Banjac, the answers are not all given and if you haven't noticed correctly, we've signaled you from above, you've even semi-emized with us, waved your hands, when we told you you couldn't conduct the session that way, you have to allow.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4082	Sir, it's not up to you to decide. No Niko was against it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4083	Mr. Banjac, you can, if you want, prohibit us from speaking.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4084	Go on. As the point is determined, proceed. 105
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4085	I thank you for allowing the MP to continue on this key issue for the future of BiH and what we had in the conversation today, when it comes to the Council of Europe. So, we are in preparation for this session, as part of a public debate and answers to questions, we have received the views of Mr. Minister for Civil Affairs in which it is said, support is given to this law. Then we received an opinion on the public debate here, on the draft election law by Mr. Tomić, acting as chairman, which is again being given appropriate remarks that Mr. Ašanin does not consider to exist. Then we got something here called Mr. Banjac, a report on the public debate on the draft of the electoral law, the promoter of Drago Ljubičić, whom I want to conclude that this is not a complete report, because it is still a public debate, it is not what was being held in your organization and which was being organised by the Parliamentary College and where only what was wanted to be heard was concluded. In addition to this, there has also been a debate on this subject and as an MP, I am obliged to warn you about it, and to ask you a question. Why are we not familiar with the very intense communication that was going towards the Commission, according to the High Representative, or the OSCE, on whose behalf Mr Fransoa is coming here? I will take just one of these, so to speak, views from the public debate, if we can call it a public debate, where one of the representatives, so to speak, of the international community, tells the commission a letter in which he literally says, the draft of the electoral law could, after I've been briefed, after you've told us, gentlemen of the Election Commission, we've realized that, as you say, the draft of the electoral law could be in conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, but, certain regulations of the Constitution of BiH have a greater weight and based on that public debate that you don't quote here, I'm just quoting one of the letters and letters that you have as many people who have prepared this. There's a comment here from a public debate. 1. Could the electoral law that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms really be done according to European standards? It's a question of the president of the European country. 2. It's not just about the right to vote, it's about the right to run for elections. Could Hrvat or Bošnjak who create a reputation in RS expect to turn into Srbin so they can run for office and what about the rights of groups mentioned in the Constitution under "other"? The current draft of the electoral law, if adopted, can be converted into an argument against the return of minorities. 3. Wouldn't it be better if there were no electoral law, rather than if we had an electoral law contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights? Stririn Bord may wish to speed up the adoption of this law, but the said gentleman thinks otherwise and challenges the vigilance of such an attitude. You have as many opinions as you want in what's called a public debate. Which one of us got this through protocol? Niko. At least we didn't win in the SDP. These questions, which are being conducted in the real public debate, have been imposed as much as you want. Look, a public debate on what she gave at a territorial site organised by the Association of Lawyers, Faculty of Law and the Legal Centre in Sarajevo, in 106, which is said among other things. A proposal for a permanent electoral law is contrary to BiH's long-term interest and stability because it concreteises ethnic division. In view of BiH, to enter the Council of Europe and later into the European Union, i.e. regional European integration, it is necessary to respect the standards of the European Convention, the prohibition of discrimination on any basis, etc. The report that we received to prepare for this meeting is very clear and precise, in the material of the Council of Europe, that the electoral law, the adoption of the Electoral Law, is no longer a condition for accession to the Council of Europe. At the end of all this, we still have one substitute for the thesis in which BiH experts have expressed the will of BiH citizens, Parliament needs the will of citizens to turn into the will of the BiH Parliament and to get what the international community is offering us, because we also have a domestic promoter, as our will. Because of all this, Mr. Banjac, I ask you, first of all, when voting, at the time of the vote, to conclude this point, that MPs are declared individually, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, whether they are for Mr. Drago Ljubičić, or for the law of the SDP, or maybe they are reserved for something, so they want us to start over in all this, or I don't know what. I'm asking that we make an individual statement. Who's for which, there's no reason. The SDP's stance, to avoid any misunderstandings, is that whoever votes for this law, with his will, consciously or unconsciously, we do not enter, votes against the return of the long-term and the vote to divide BiH. Mr. Rakić, since you mentioned us here, and this is very much the issue of this election law, I want to tell you that your claim that we don't agree with Dayton BiH is based only on the argument that exists where Mr. Fransoau is in his head that he didn't even think, well, there you saw it, that we were for the division of BiH, so in your head you could see. We never mentioned here that we were against Dayton BiH. The fact is that when we say that BiH should be a normal country, it is not offensive to this country. We don't think this is a normal country. If you've concluded that she's abnormal, that's another thing, but I insist that this is not a normal one state and it's not offensive, it's a fact. This is not the normal European state of BiH, and we want it to be. The fact that we talk about this like this is the best proof that it is not a normal country of BiH. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, once again, I want it to be very clear that the electoral law, which is claimed to have been made by BiH legal experts, for Bosanac and Hercegovac, that BiH experts have drawn up a law for Bosanac and Hercegovac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4086	They could've made it for the Srbin.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4087	For the Bosanac and the Hercegovac, for the citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4088	Look, I'm a Srbin, I'm not Bosanac. A Srbin, first of all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4089	I repeat, I quote people who have said this more than once from the international community, i.e. on behalf of the Working Group, who put forward a proposal proposed by Drago Ljubičić that BiH experts had made a law on Bosnians and Hercegovac. We do not want all the Bosanac and Hercegovac, including Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others, and all the constituent peoples and all the equal citizens not to be made by this parliament by voting the law of division and the law that will pave the way for us to European integration and to normal BiH. Mr. Banjac, I thank you for your patience for, however, having the nerve to listen to what you did not want.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4090	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija, MP, in the future, from this day forward, I will see you as a Bošnjak as you plead, and I can add to it a citizen of Bosnian nationality, a Muslim religion, and that will not bother me at all. I ask you to call me a Srbin, a Orthodox religion. I beg you, I am not Bosanac, but Srbin, Orthodox religion. Please, I respect you, respect only so much of me, nothing above that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4091	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention of commenting on certain comments, discussions and opinions. However, I consider it mandatory to give a small answer to Mr Lagumdžija's discussion. When it comes to this public debate, I do not dispute what Mr Lagumdžija said that perhaps this information does not contain everything that happened in BiH, on this draft of the electoral law, when it comes to public debate and that in this material that we have all received in writing, probably, and do not find all the questions and answers to questions raised in the context of the whole public debate. I'll take it that's probably the case, but I'd like to ask you something, though. It probably wasn't possible for me either, in this form of motionor, probably not for Mr Moris, probably not for the members of the Secretariat who made a great effort to do what we got in writing, when it came to a public debate or part of a public debate on this draft election law. So, let this be your addition, I would simply suggest and accept it as a full debate, Mr Lagumdžija. I accept that observation of yours, but I ask you to accept that you too probably weren't able to attend all these meetings within the framework of an organised public debate that was dedicated to this election law. Next thing I know, I'd like to ask you in a further discussion. Let's do our best. Let us not repeat the questions already raised in the context of the public debate and what I have mentioned, which Mr Banjac said several times. We got the opinion and interpretation of the Working Group, so those groups, so those people who were doing this draft election law and gave their position on many of these issues and the essence would be that. Another request, let us try to ask some new questions and take advantage of the opportunity, if there are new questions, which are not asked in the context of this public debate, to which there is no answer. Let's not repeat those questions we have an answer for. Whether someone agrees or disagrees with that answer, that's another question now. 108
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4092	Gentlemen, I would like to say that the majority of the answers to the remarks brought to the debate in this House, in our court, mostly apologetic nature, are apologetic in the sense that it has not entered into the context and in the essence of the remarks that have been made, but it seems to me, above all, that it is an apriorous intention to propose an election law to defend itself in electoral form, i.e. to affirm what is presented as a draft that should be accepted at all costs. When we look at this side, I think the answers that have been given by the proposings and the expert groups to your observations do not help us in some consideration of this draft, that the draft electoral law in one more favourable way... The CD Coalition Club has more objections to the draft and if we absorb those minor remarks, or those which relate more to the procedural level in the Electoral Law, there remain two capital gaps of the draft electoral law. The first refers, as previously pointed out, to Article 1st point 5 and Article 3(4), where it allows citizens, i.e. displaced persons, to vote for the municipality where they have their residence, if they present evidence that the displaced person has reported residence in the municipality, at least six months before the election day, we therefore hold that voting with such a member of the electoral law would mean a kind of legitimacy of the results of ethnic cleansing in BiH, i.e., leading to cementing the existing demographic configuration of BiH and, in perspective, leading to further segregation in BiH, i.e. the division of BiH as a state. Of course, as regards the provisions governing the election of members of the BiH presidency under Chapter VIII, we, therefore, hold that there is a disabling of general and equal voting rights for all BiH citizens, and that this is by no means in line with Article 2(2), point 2. The BiH Constitution on direct implementation, i.e. the implementation of the European Charter on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. These are, therefore, our two capital remarks and why the Club, or MPs of the Coalition of the CD BiH, will not make a positive statement about the draft electoral law proposed by the distinguished Mr Drago Ljubičić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4093	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, I am also encouraged by the reasoning given by Mr Moris at the opening of today's session, because it seems to me that from what was hanging over our heads as a dangerous tendency of alleged statements, we have received more than we could expect in terms of the desire for BiH as one state that works, when it comes to Mr Moris, as an expert and politician. I must congratulate Mr. Jahić on his courage, using the term Coalition for a complete and democratic BiH. I would not so use the views of four political parties, especially that some of the senior SDA officials have publicly said that this law may be good for the SDA, but it is not good for BiH. After such an attitude that I believe is not an official opinion of the SDA, I am not quite ready to, as one of the MPs elected in the CD Coalition framework list, stand so unequivocally behind something someone on behalf of the CD Coalition of MPs will say. That is why I want to say 109 that I am speaking here as president of the Liberal Party and MP in this House and in this regard I will say the following. The law, in the opinion of many BiH citizens, is legal experts and even those who have worked on it, not democratically, but may, in some ways, be in line with certain provisions of the BiH Constitution. For a much larger number of people in BiH, this law is also undemocratic, but it is also the opposite of the Constitution of BiH, which includes the Convention on European Rights and Freedoms, as an integral part of the BiH Constitution. This means that, in most cases, we are the largest Bosnian-Herzegovina public, we have the view that the Constitution is, now, the story of the Constitution, at least not democratic because it does not ensure the equality of BiH citizens throughout the BiH area. Gentlemen, the fundamental question to be asked is this. Whether we have the right to spend millions of marks, to condition BiH with the admission to the Council of Europe, among other things, by adopting this or this law. If we all, as MPs, see clearly that the law discriminates on citizens by ethnicity, do you have the right to, even if it is in accordance with some provisions of the Constitution of BiH, expose the MPs here to the bill they know about today and immediately to be discriminatory towards certain ethnic groups and which determines the inequality of citizens, or members of the people in some area of BiH. Who's that? Who can vote for a law that is not democratic and which is discriminatory and what is it, if so decided by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and what is the alternative to that? To be very open. For this law, for this law and for this law, I am convinced that it is discriminatory and that it is undemocratic. I won't vote for that law. Will you, as legislators, Mr Ljubičić and the Working Group at your service, change the current provisions of this law, and go to the future of BiH, remain to be seen, but I would personally like to encourage you in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4094	It's not right to interpret this law as discriminatory. If one is given the right to vote in the place where he is staying for eight years, is that discrimination, and that is the same right given to every individual living in BiH, no matter where he lives. So he has the right to choose. It cannot be interpreted as discrimination, or as a threat to human rights. This law was made in accordance with the Dayton Constitution. The fact that gentlemen don't accept the Dayton Constitution and work all the time to bring that constitution down, that's another problem. That's the problem we've been struggling with for a long time. This law does not bring us any great happiness from the RS and we are not with it in much part, in some places, we are not quite satisfied. But as a draft, we accept it and we vote for it. The amendments we've made, we hope some of them will be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4095	I would like here, first of all, to express my deep regret that Mr Silajdžić had not been here since the beginning, to hear the presentation of the SDP president, who categorically claimed that BiH was not a normal state at one point. Why am I saying this? Well, for the simple reason why, not so long ago, I was just saying the same thing, so in a certain way, I was almost ridiculed and exactly by those same people. I'm saying now, as I've said before, it's true. The counterargument was that it was fine in the Constitution of BiH and Dayton that BiH is a state. It may be a formal state, but it's not essentially a state, there's a problem, because there are certain fundamental shortcomings that we, above all, have to do away with our work here to make BiH, like the other 110 countries in the world. That's one thing. As for the report on Mr Ljubičić's public hearing, I would say the following. 1. I think the draft electoral law, as delivered to us, can in any case only be the basis for further upgrade and work on the same. Why? For the simple reason that we and in this public debate, which was conducted here and here in the BiH Parliament, in countless cases, have listed literally some members who are contrary to both the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH and RS. In this context, it is certainly necessary to build up such a draft, so that we have one draft legally in line with the positive legal rules. I would not agree with Mr Lagumdžija's statement that if we were to vote for such a law, for a project like this, to vote for the division of BiH and against the return of refugees and displaced persons, I literally wrote it down to myself, or to quote what Mr Lagumdžija said. I absolutely don't share Mr. Lagumdžija's opinion, by pointing out one fact here, which is that this kind of discussion obviously ignores a basic, notorious fact, which is that it's past the time of majorization and everything we had until '92. A year. Unfortunately, I have a deep feeling that there is a deep regret here for past times and that it is still in the minds of certain colleagues, responsible colleagues, there is still a desire and regret for this time and, also, a desire to put BiH in a position, through a very important legislative project, to put the same thing in the position of all citizens on the whole of BiH, while ignoring the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, neglecting the fact that BiH is composed of two equal entities and three constitutive peoples. The consistency is something specific that I would not like to talk about here, there will probably be time for that, but in any case, I do not think there are any elements of discrimination against any ethnic group, because, however, we must not forget and interfere with the mind of who was working on the project of this draft, yet these are people of the profession and who had before them, not just the Dayton Agreement, but all the other legal regulations that are necessary to come up with one of these drafts. In the end, I'd end up with it. I believe that such a draft represents a solid basis for further upgrade, and in that sense, as a member of the Radical Party of RS, I believe that it can be the basis for further addition and further work on the same.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4096	Please, stick to working arrangements. What you get in writing in response, don't repeat. You've heard the answers, you have the answers, and there's no need to waste time. I ask the MPs to stick to the agenda. We're giving a lecture here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4097	Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think there is any reason why we should all feel crucial to the future of BiH and any procedural reasons for limiting the discussion, but I think that we should go in the direction of unnecessary labelling and in the direction of trying to, as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and as elected MPs, MPs, we should really achieve what we have been talking about in the PSBiH House of Representatives for so long, but also outside the PSBiH House of Representatives, which is to build such electoral law that 111 will prevent any majorisation, to build such an election law which, indeed, will allow BiH to have three constitutive, equal peoples and that no one in any country in the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be majorised and no one be challenged because of its national membership. I call on all fighters for Serbian rights and interests, all fighters for Bosniak rights and interests, all fighters for Croatian rights and interests and I call on those who fight at the same time for both Serbian and Croatian and Bosniak rights, to find a formula in which it will be provided. In the Federation of BiH, by law, Mr Ljubičić, I am talking to you, about 4,000 people who have had a hard time, a great political action, efforts, with the denial of their return to Drvar, have no fundamental human rights, they are citizens of Serbian nationality. Fighting for Serbian national interests means protecting a Srbin in every part of BiH territory. Protecting interest in only a certain part of the territory is a call for majorisation. Let's build that formula through the Election Law, which the SDP has always advocated, Mr. Silajdžić, since '96, when you were still in Dayton, to find the formula to really ensure equality for the Bosnian Herzegovic peoples. To find a formula in which we will not charge ourselves with alleged majorisation and to find a formula that no one chooses representatives, but that the representatives elected have responsibility to their own people, given that they only need it and can choose it, but also the responsibility and support of members of other peoples. It is a tale and a fairy tale that a representative of the Serb people will protect the interests of Srbin in the BiH presidency. It's proven impossible. The BiH presidency can protect the interests of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak. This is how the BiH presidency, as it was made, can only be antagonists among itself, because I felt no responsibility for the current Bosniak member of the BiH presidency, according to life, social, economic, national citizens of Serbian nationality in most of BiH's territory, never. Because he has no obligation to do so. Gentlemen, his voice is as valuable as any of the BiH presidency members. It's my wish that today's debate, the epilogue can be matured, we can block this other law here, yes, indeed, towards finding that formula, but the formula not to discriminate against any Srbin. I'm a little, really, Mr. Ljubičić, surprised. I am a little surprised by the Radical Party gentleman, because radicals mean some thoroughness, some requirement from the ground that no national interest can be built and as a representative of the SDP on behalf of citizens and of the Serbian and Bosniak nationalities and of all other citizens, I really do not think that this law should be the basis for further legislation, because it conflicts with the basic postulates of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms. If we're talking about a normal and abnormal situation, I guess we're here in charge of everything that's abnormal in this country, everything that's been laid down in a certain way, as well as social and as political and whatever misery you want to overcome it. The situation is not normal. We can make as many replicas as we want here, as many gymnastics as we want verbally, but we objectively have to help Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak to really become constitutional in BiH, that's what we can and that's what we're in charge of. So I'm really afraid that this is where we fall for the national interest test. They are falling which require only the right of Srbin to have in one part of BiH territory, only in one part of the territory of the country in which the people are constituent.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4098	I don't know who I'm going to replicate. We have to do something. First of all, I will take myself for freedom, dear colleagues and colleagues, that a Bosniak member of the BiH presidency has just been mentioned, and since there is no member, it should be said here that he has just raised the constitutional court issue of constitutionality. It is this very member of the BiH Presidency that has raised the issue of constitutionality and I hope that this will be resolved positively very quickly and that we will all be, we are all equal, constitutive, etc. all over BiH. I'm not going to replicate the people who mentioned Lukašenko, Milošević, they're socialists, I understand them a little bit, because it's a very serious issue, a very serious topic. I would say not only this law like this, but the question is whether any law electoral can do something to fix the situation in BiH. Here, let's say it's normal. Very short. It was just mentioned eight years ago here. If an eight-year-old has the right to vote. What about the one who hasn't been in his house in eight years? What right does he have? So if a million and a half people are out, out of their homes, my question is a very serious question. Do we have the right to go to elections at all? No matter what law it is. This law that we're talking about, of course, is going to be changed and it can't go through like this, it's clear to everyone. Do we have the right to go to elections if so many BiH citizens, which we also represent, are not in their homes? Will your results be legitimate? That's a question for me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4099	Replica, MP Mr. Tokić and MP Mrs. Perkanović, means the lady has the first line.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4100	The replica refers to the right of choice. Gentlemen, if someone lives in one city for eight years, he's not there because he wanted to, but because he's experienced a tragic fate of banishment from the space of these people who talk about it. I'm sorry they're trying to take away all they have left, and that's the right choice. With that right, no one is denied the right to vote where he was born. Nowhere in the world is voted back eight years, according to the 1991 census. The Lord did not object when it was voted in sacks, when bags and letters came from all over the world, and which no one had checked and corresponded to. Then why wasn't it about human rights and the rights of those who are here? It's the right thing for a man to choose where he lives and be chosen where he lives. Imagine that Mostar municipality president is elected in Sarajevo, or that the President of Tuzla municipality is elected in Zenica, is not logical and not normal. People are chosen where they live from those who live there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4101	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to replicate Mrs. Perkanović who says she is the right of every citizen to choose organs in the area where she lives. This right is, of course, democratic law and normal in all modern countries of the world. But we, the Dayton Peace Agreement, its aneks 3, on the elections, in Article 4, have a general principle that citizens who do not live in the 1991 place of residence are determined as a general principle to vote in the municipality in 1991. It's a general principle established by the Dayton Peace Agreement. As such, he now loses the character of the general principle, as a new principle is introduced that has the same legal power, that every citizen can choose, in addition to voting in the 1991 place of residence, to vote in the place of residence in the last six months. So, it deviates from this principle set out in the Dayton Peace Agreement, so this is how it deviates from the Dayton Peace Agreement, and this is how the situation is legalised by force in BiH. The Dayton Peace Agreement must be respected until all those forced to return to their homes and only then can such a democratic principle be applied in all countries of the world be applied. That everyone he wants to live in, live in that place, and choose the authorities who will rule in that area where he lives, but when we all go back to where we were in 1991, when the Dayton Peace Accords are respected.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4102	Tokic, there's another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4103	We didn't get along. We didn't mind people voting abroad and voting wherever they want and for the municipality where they went and for the municipality they live in, it's just a desire to respect basic human rights, the right to choose. If we're saying he's gonna get the right to vote when he gets back, it means we have to force some people to really come back and have the right to vote. Well, imagine, gentlemen, thousands, hundreds of thousands of people don't think about changing the current place of residence anymore. The one who went to Australia, the one who currently lives in Germany, who may live in Banja Luka, or who may live in Sarajevo. Let's not go through the line of protection of human rights against basic human rights to choice now. Here in this law is really given a right, a wide choice of rights. Nothing is contrary to the Human Rights Act, nor is it contrary to the Dayton Agreement. This background and this comedy that's being built around this bill is just a desire to annul the Dayton Agreement, not to act in accordance with the Dayton Agreement. All laws that were contrary to the Dayton Agreement were unanimously adopted by the same ones that are now against the Election Law, and swear in BiH. The election law is the basis of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4104	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I'd just like to clarify. The right to choose involves the possibility that someone in peace can live wherever they want and choose a place to live. Today, we in most of BiH territory, in the vast part of BiH, in both Bosnian-Herzegovina entities, have an environment where, for example, a man cannot come to see his private property. Let such people have no right or choice. He's not allowed to choose. Only one who lives in one place or another can choose. I think the largest number of refugees and displaced persons are in this situation. As for Mr Silajdžić, I would like to explain. My discussion referred to the need to create such an electoral law in which a member of the BiH presidency, regardless of the people and entities from where he came from, will have responsibility for the entire territory of BiH, which 114 implies that in the future we would not have Izetbegović who had never gone to RS territory or crossed over more than 15% of BiH territory, and he visited half of the globe, of course, the same can be said, even more radically for Mr. Radišić, for Mr. Jelavić, well, Mr. Silajdžić, for you. I have never heard of you, as the first man to introduce yourself to the Council of Ministers, as a man of the BiH Council, taking care of the status, let's say, of the Srbin in Trebinj. I didn't even hear verbally. We need such an electoral law, which will promote such work, and I think that election law will have an effect beyond the elections. He will have responsibility, Mr Silajdžić, and you will have to keep in mind that every statement you make will echo between both Srbin and amongst the Bošnjak and amongst the citizens of other nationalities and it will be a completely different environment and you will have the responsibility that when you fight within the Council of Ministers of BiH and block full work, you do not extract from this positive effect, homogenising each of your people is blocking the work of the Council of Ministers of BiH, that is what we insist on and why we advocate a new approach to the electoral law, from the aspect of responsibility of anyone who is in the central institutions. As for the socialist you mentioned, you've been hanging out with him and you've got a lot of good, and, I don't know, at least you've said well, the experience of drawing cards, promoting those principles, which should now be upgraded, corrected. As for the SDP, our partners are Šreder, Bler, we are in...national and belong to the family of social democratic parties, who have indeed shown, on every inch of the globe, from Mendela to Arafat, to stand on one universal principle of solidarity and care for every man, so, if you will, and for a new world order that will not be based on the domination of anyone. In this context, I ask you to represent the SDP and only in this context are you talking about social democracy, and the socialists and your acquaintances can mention it elsewhere, they were your partners, directly in Dayton, and in 1990 when you were elected as a member of the Government, as well as some others were indirect of your partners. You know well who he is then, under whose predominance you are then chosen.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4105	Thank you very much. These were objections to the Electoral Law. I'm looking at the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4106	I'll speak, of course, this is a discussion about the Electoral Law. I have observations, this previous discussion has prompted me. In fact, we have a portion of the SDP MPs at each session performing something similar to Teletabi's broadcast on TV BiH regularly every night. That reminds me irresistiblely, because it has a lot of similarities. First, the show is broadcast, it is visible in the territory of the Federation of BiH, and this story, mainly, has a reception on part of the Federation of BiH. Second, these telethons can't grow up from night to night, these SDPs, mostly on percentage, remain the same. The third thing, teletelebis mostly tell a story where there is no shop and MPs, part of the MPs doesn't matter, it's mostly important to tell a story that has nothing to do with the agenda. The show is mostly watched and trusted by children and 115 that part of the children. There is, of course, a difference. These teletelebis have never spoken out from where they came from, and these SDPs are reluctant to talk about origin, although property has been unquestionably found to be the origin of communists, and teletabis has undisputedly found to have nothing to do with the communists. This is only with the intention of facilitating the monitoring and understanding of this part of the assembly session, which is almost regular here. There would be, of course, more similarities and a difference add, I'm going to stay at this moment on this one and maybe it would be good to establish that regular point. As for the Electoral Law, I would like to thank Mr Moris for his statement, I think it has been useful both for Parliament and for Mr Moris himself. There were many words about the Electoral Law, many of which were told by international authority, and, of course, those authorities said useful things, there is no need to underestimate those attitudes at all. However, I would also focus on the opinion of the local public. The BiH citizens are being passed the law, however, the OSCE campaign is being run under the motto, tell your MPs clearly what you want. The list I was elected to RS as an MP won 20% of the vote, around 20%, in the Federation of BiH about 50% of the vote. I haven't met any of these voters that he said he was accepting a bill like this, with whoever I was talking to. They were mostly against a bill like this. I especially point out this after the proposal has been made. We've had one greater number of objections, essential objections to the law. The applicant’s statement rejected the comments. The basic reason why this law, I mean, wasn't accepted the way I said it was, first of all, in the fact that it really doesn't offer equal and general voting rights. The second thing, the method of registration of displaced persons is according to a model that we had the opportunity to test three years of choices that were behind us in '96, '97. and '98. A year. In fact, it is mostly a provision that a displaced person, if six months before the election in a municipality, has the right to register in that municipality. So it was '96, '97. and '98. A year. The results, or consequences, are as follows. '90s. In the Federation of BiH, there were 22% of Srbin 96.084%, '97, 1.8 and '98, 0.34%. Some will say that it is in the spirit of an effort to leave the elementary human right to choose a place of residence freely and I am for it. However, can some Srbin, in some parts of the municipalities of the Federation of BiH, achieve six months of stay at will and exercise the right to stay in the municipality? Could some Hrvat in some parts of the municipalities of the Federation of BiH and municipalities in RS make that assumption come true? Could a Bošnjak in some parts of the Federation of BiH or municipalities in the Federation of BiH live with his free will for six months in a municipality, choose it and say I want to live there? Of course he can't. You can't, first of all, go back to where his house and apartment are, where his property is, let alone choose the municipality and say I intend to live. What am I trying to say? I want to say that the insistence to protect one elemental human right in the conditions in which BiH is located, in conditions where there are no assumptions about it, not only to protect the fundamental human right, but is essentially discriminating for the reasons that I have stated and, secondly, instead of protecting human rights, that principle is, in fact, a rule that suits the continuation of ethnic cleansing, ethnic ghettoisation and ultimately prevents the return process. Interestingly, he was also the first man of the Helsinki Committee for the Protection of Human Rights in BiH in the state commission to work on this draft election law. As 116 of us were informed, the State Commission had a unanimous view of this proposal. My party will send a letter to the Helsinki Committee, the Central, asking if it is the position of the Helsinki Committee or whether it is an individual's position. It's about important things, and that's why we're gonna insist on it. For these reasons, I am talking about the bill's proposal, not to mention any party, respecting the views of the parties, respecting the views of the clubs, for these reasons, I would like to make it very clear here that the MPs of the SDA within the Coalition Club cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4107	I hope now Mr. Lagumdžija will react to a standstill in development.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4108	Madam Chairman, given that the chairman of this House has brought classic insults to the SDP's account, I am obliged to respond and draw attention to this in the least possible way. You see, I wouldn't react if it weren't for the vice president of the SDA and the man who presents himself here very often as the head of the CD Coalition's Club of Representatives in Parliament. I wouldn't be talking to you, Mr. Genjac, if you were saying this as a gynecologist, but I can see you're saying this as an amateur psychologist, and I wouldn't even be talking to you here if you hadn't spoken to you from the post of vice president of the SDA and head of the CD Coalition Club. You didn't in any word deny what we were saying. In no word did you refer to the facts we spoke. If I wanted to use your dictionary, I'd probably tell you that, Mr. Genjac, if you've already recognized Tinki Vinki in yourself, then I really think you should have asked that Po, who I taught this morning about the butane and the propane, where you went and asked him if maybe with my little Salko, who's two years old, he's gone to watch your show, you're not even joining them, Mr. Genjac, those kids who understand what it's all about, and these insults you've started in Parliament. Every time you start insulting, you'll get it back. We don't insult. We're telling the facts. But for the insult, you'll get a double if you have to.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4109	I cannot agree that this law has been passed in a non-democratic way. This is the only law that has passed the democratic procedure. It's been working on since spring last year. Through OHR's intermediation, they went into all local communities and conducted polls, so they took the views of all BiH citizens. They did not conduct studies and surveys only in one city, only in one place, but also in local communities. Please, which is the law that passed such a democratic procedure that it asked the base. Not one. It cannot be claimed here that it is undemocratic, that it does not respect the rights, the laws, the Constitution, but I have one high grade, from the way of preparation, the coming to this law, and one positive opinion about the law itself, which respects this reality, respects the Constitution. Gentlemen, if our condition changes, it will probably change both the Constitution and the laws and everything else, maybe we won't be alive then, maybe it will change our children, grandchildren, great-grandsons, but, please, we will act in accordance with regulations and laws and in accordance with the democratic procedure. Just to point out, I would suggest that you move to a plea, that you no longer hold any... 117
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4110	We have to let people finish the discussion. We have to let them go. Maybe they have something to say about the law. This has been like this before.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4111	Ladies and gentlemen, I will finally say my final position on this bill proposal, but here, more and more has been said here than the debate on the proposed draft of the BiH electoral law, which, two, three hours ago, we swore before the gentlemen of Europe that it was necessary, important, most important, and I don't know what else we didn't know. But here I am quick to ask all MPs. How many members of the law are proposed, quick to be told. I have the impression that a stronger debate on this law has been conducted outside this Parliament and that much more serious debates at the expense of, unfortunately, the citizens of BiH led outside Parliament, as part of a public debate on the Electoral Law. I must, of course, warn those who are looking forward to the accident, and, behold, by yesterday alone, as a people in the state of BiH, we were in a great tragedy and disaster, which are looking forward to accidents in neighbouring countries, that they do not make happiness for their own country of residence. I must say that Yugoslavia, for those who do not yet know, is the current Serbia-Montenegro, the only civil state in the area of the former Yugoslavia. It's the only citizen. It would be good if we could get the strength, at least thank the people of Serbia-Montenegro for accepting that part of the unhappy Bošnjak, Srbin, the rare Hrvat who escaped from the tragedy that hit BiH and at that time Croatia and found themselves in Serbia, which helped them. It would be good if we could get the strength, they would change their regime when we too show willingness to change the one we say is not good, and that is why I ask you to understand, that if we do not at least live in friendly relations with Serbia and Croatia, we should at least live in correct neighbourly relations. If there is no stability in Croatia and Yugoslavia, we will sneak in for free and think that some stability will give us. We'll have to learn to cherish, among other things, and an exemplary dictionary of the countries that live next door. So I ask you to discuss matters that are on the agenda of the BiH Parliament. It is not the Slobodan Milošević agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and, if I must tell you, there are more musliman and other Srbin living in his parliament than you civil party gentlemen are ready to join the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I don't mean to defend him, let the people whose president is changing him. The other thing I want to talk about is that, no matter how much you resisted the BiH Constitution, you thought she was like this or like that, she looked ten years back or ten years ahead, Article 1, attitude 2. 3. says: BiH consists of two entities, from the Federation of BiH and RS, in the entity's further text. You cannot build an Electoral Law that will not respect the existence of the RS entity or the Federation of BiH. So such a law cannot be passed and is not possible outside the BiH Constitution. Is BiH a normal state? Believe me, I've never dealt with such grades, but, often, Mr Silajdžić said that BiH is not normal and that, of course, a normal state should be built. Can a normal man manage an abnormal state? And Zlatko often advocates the story that BiH is not normal, pleading to run an abnormal state. Anyone who wants to compete in a democratic game, calling it an abnormal state, I don't know what's going on with people? Are the other laws we adopted normal for the abnormal state? I think BiH is composed of two entities, 118 described precisely in this document and the constitutions of its entities. It is impossible to wait for the initiative to be launched for the constitutionality of the people, here, as far as I hear, Mr. Alija Izetbegović, because I do not believe in his initiative. Alija Izetbegović is directly responsible for Nikola Špirić and many Srbin leaving Sarajevo and living today in Banja Luka and are happy to be alive in their republic. Unfortunately, many have not welcomed Alija Izetbegović's initiative. Srbin do not believe in Alija Izetbegović's initiative, which expelled Srbin from the Federation of BiH. Once you realize that the persecutors, we don't trust them. Do you really think there is a Srbin who believes Alija Izetbegović's initiative? Do you really think that Alija Izetbegović really is looking forward to Nikola Špirić as an MP coming to Sarajevo, offering him a job at the Faculty of Economics or at the Institute where he worked, to return his property, etc. When are we gonna stop lying to each other? Once we start from what was created on the date of the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which is BiH as a state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4112	Shall we talk about the law?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4113	I'll go and talk about the law. Many have said that the law is undemocratic and discriminatory. That the law should recognise a future BiH. The law must not and cannot define future relations in BiH, must not prejudge matters. Relations in BiH are defined by a document called the Constitution. The law also cannot recognise BiH from the 1990s. A year before the war broke out. It's impossible to put the situation back. To be, gentlemen, all the pawns you lived in BiH at the time, not to suffer what she suffered. They are now political and individual regrets because the war that was waged in these areas did not bring the result that Haris Silajdžić and Alija Izetbegović advocated, he did not bring. I know that the Islamic Declaration by Alija Izetbegović and you as his follower and student are not the result of this war being waged. Finally, the international community made it clear that the war that was waged was a tragic war. The fact that you will define it this way or I will not feed those workers who sent a message to Haris Silajdžić in Zenica yesterday and say we want bread, please, sir, return us to our jobs, because six months ago in the BiH Parliament, you promised this would happen. They didn't call me. He can't do a legal project like that either. I'd also like to draw your attention that I don't know why OSCE downloaded 15 members of the CD list in Washington. Because I guess 3,500 Bošnjak who were never BiH citizens wanted to vote. The international community doesn't give these kinds of pranks, and they need to be sanctioned. Is this a discriminatory relationship, to prevent those who have no right to vote? That are not BiH citizens. Well, since the BiH Council of Ministers, we have not received an answer as to who has become a BiH citizen in such a way. Is that a germination of the SDA's results into the CD and I don't know who. Why don't we have those answers? Why is BiH an abnormal state, if you say so? Because you don't want to behave normally as you manage BiH. And in the end, I want to make my point. I think that the proposal for a legal project that we have received is a lot of effort, much more skills for BiH and understanding than we ourselves are willing to express and, as an MP, I will advocate that in further procedure, in the form of the proposal, this law goes, with the fact that, of course, as an MP, I will make amendments to 119 that part of the law that I think needs to be improved. I think this proposal is a solid basis for further discussion in terms of amendments to the bill, and I think we have had to have at least so much seriousness, that we do not insult those who have put more effort into making this law than we have to discuss this law that we have received.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4114	Hilmo Neimarlija has a replica. Well, here, we have two more so let's give you a discussion, if you want people not to get angry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4115	Some MPs have been quoted here as saying that those who say this law is non-democratic and discriminatory are against the Dayton Constitution of BiH. When we held a debate earlier on on the draft of this law, a heated debate when we led, one of the MPs reminded us that we had given a solemn statement that we would protect the BiH Constitution. I would remind us today, MPs, that when we gave a solemn statement, we would promote human rights and fundamental freedoms and protect the interests and equality of all citizens, all peoples and citizens, which is also a constitutional provision. Therefore, when we talk about the law, we must consider the whole of these provisions of the Constitution. I'll remind you. The constitution says that Bošnjak, Hrvat and Srbin, as constituent nations, in the community with others and citizens of BiH, establish the Constitution, inspired by the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and International Agreements and Civil Political Rights. I quote this so there's no mistake. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that the will of the people is the foundation of state power. This will should be expressed in periodic and free elections to be held through general and equal voting rights. So it's the preamble to the Constitution. In Article 2. The Constitution, under point 1. Human rights, binding on BiH and both entities, the constitution obliges to ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms. Under point 2. International standards. The rights and freedoms provided for in the European Declaration for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its protocols apply directly to BiH. These acts have priority over all other laws. Under point 4.. nediskriminacija says: “The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms provided for in this article but also in the international agreements referred to in Annex 1. The constitution is secured by all persons in BiH, without discrimination on any basis." Article 3 says the general principles of international law are an integral part of BiH's legal order and entities. By passing a new electoral law, the entire electoral system should be in line with the democratic achievements of Europe and the world, not withholding citizens' active and passive voting rights, i.e. the right for citizens to be elected and elected throughout BiH. This law not only does not comply with the Constitution, but does not comply with those declarations, international conventions on human rights. 120 We have received from the Office of the High Representative a document called “The Opinion of the Venice Commission on the Jurisdiction of BiH on Election Rights” in which, among other things, it states that the body adopted by the Election Law, which is this Parliament, must ensure that all people are guaranteed the basic democratic principles, universal, permanent and equal voting rights that ensure freedom of expression of the population, human rights, including non-discrimination and sensitive principles which are supported by the Dayton Agreement. In this draft law, these democratic principles are not respected and therefore, in my opinion, cannot be the basis for the draft election law. Starting with the fact that the special provisions of the Constitution, based on this draft of the electoral law, do not allow general and equal rights of citizens, all citizens, SDP MPs, the NHI and the Liberal parties to launch in this House an initiative to initiate the procedure of harmonisation of the Constitution with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and we expect that we will soon discuss this initiative, as well as that the MPs of this House, and, also, the international community would support our initiative, in that case, the electoral law that we adopt would be in line with the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4116	I just need to begin by thanking the chairman for finally remembering me. I think there's a bit of and irresponsiblely speaking a lot of big words here, words that are not based on anything and are very casually expressed. That's why I'd really like to pray, in the future, when grades are given, and we're not talking about the flat-rates, the principles of the law that's on the agenda, because we've already had a few principle analyses and discussions. If large grades are given, then they must be tied to specific paragraphs, certain members, certain allegations. Here through one globalisation, through one generalization, it really wants to be promoted, not what can be promoted, which is reality, but what it wants to be. I could have accepted some suggestions from some discussions 10 or 15 years ago, but that was 10 or 15 years ago. I would even remind some colleagues sitting here that on April 2, 1992, just across the street, we had a promotion of a major project and a lunch that had all the nations and nationalities of BiH at the time, it was said that what unfortunately proved possible was impossible. I admit I was wrong then, but for the second time, I can't be mistaken. I can't, not just to myself, but to that people who chose me and sent me here. This law, or some other law that we will accept and promote, must not be the fruit of my vision at this moment, as I imagine it could be. It must be the result of our reality and it must be in line with what is called the BiH Constitution. I support all those who have called on the BiH Constitution and I will insist that whatever variant of the law goes into further procedure be based on the BiH Constitution. I would like to remind once again that this is BiH whose constitutional foundation has been hit in Dayton and that we are required through the new law to guarantee the Dayton principles and, of course, to respect the Dayton Peace Constitution. When conditions are created and assumptions that he is changing, then we will change him here in the congregation, we will not look for anyone on the side to change him for us. 121 I do have a bit of a problem with a double approach or access to double arches, when some MPs are already talking about this law. Namely, when it suits them, when it suits their vision, then they come very well with suggestions and pressures and inaugurations that come from the international community, and when it doesn't sort of match their visions, then, of course, challenge the right for representatives of the international community to give them time. Let's get this straight. We need professional assistance from all areas, from rights to technology, economics, so if you want art from representatives of the international community, but help us get to those of the Assembly, to those legal acts that promote us to Europe. I'm opposed to anyone putting such acts on our side. We'll know whether they're good for us or not. What is a democratic, or discriminatory issue is a very open question. Obviously, I repeat again, no one has stated what it is to discriminate on someone, or what it is that is not in these conditions and under our Constitution democratically. Democraticly, it's very stretching. That's a very stretching term. One concept of democracy was in Socrates' time, another term is today, but if you look at every society, whatever it was called, no matter what time, it tended to be more democratisation. But as the chairman would say, and specifically about the law. The law we are now discussing is not ideal, it has not affected the aspirations, demands or desires of all and no law will be able to do so. It should be an acceptable compromise for everyone in BiH. My personal opinion is that he is not far from being the acceptable compromise for most in BiH. He needs to respect some realities. One of these realities, here, I will not be selfish, among other things, is that this law must respect the Hrvat in BiH to choose their member of the BiH presidency, however undemocratic this is for this BiH, the democratic issue of its future and the issue of further development of democratic relations within BiH. The law has more than been defined by the Dayton Peace Agreement centralised the issues it regulates. The issue of elections in entities, local elections in entities, should not lead to revisions of the Dayton Peace Agreement as some try to do. That is why I would suggest that debate be conducted on the second law and that we do not vote tonight, that we give the applicants another opportunity to give decadent answers, especially those where the laws are indicated that they are not based on the Constitution and that next time, through one brief additional analysis within an hour, we choose one of these two variants.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4117	The Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the Proposers and President of the Commission who has been working, I will be replicating, chairing for the end, now I will say what I thought about the Law. I have a lot of understanding for the character of the discussion given the importance of this law. Also, I am obliged to say that the Genjac has expressed the position of our club, but that I need to express my personal opinion in terms of the expectations I had from the Commission that prepared this draft. I did not, of course, expect an ideal law, that is, a proposal or a proposal for an ideal law. I expected, of course, the proposal for a realistic law, the measure of reality, in my opinion, to determine the Constitution of BiH and the practical state we have, but which is simultaneously static and dynamic. I note this because this draft is not constitutionally realistic, either in static or dynamic terms. It's not 122 constitutionally realistic in a static sense because it's very clear, by explaining it wasn't denied that we got later. The general rule provided for in Article 4, Annex 3, turned to the exception, and made the exception a general rule per voter. It is not as dynamic as one of the requirements of the Constitution, and this is a alignment with the European Charters, dynamically outlined in the text of this draft. I'm saying this because I don't think the draft is in agreement with the Constitution, regardless of what we all had reason to propose for much better solutions and what can't be accepted, not even in terms of this reality, like its passing, so to speak. We are all referring to the Constitution and, if you will allow me, a reminder of the last part of the Assembly in perhaps a inappropriate environment, I have called on constitutional patriotism. This draft also fails in this static and dynamic sense this constitutional requirement. Note, with the request that the motionors respect this, several purely technical notes. We have the election every year. I would not stress the importance of the Electoral Law, but given this very failure of the Constitution, there is a very great possibility for us to simply, fighting for the best possible or most realistic, the simplest Electoral Law, lose voters in the elections. With this unconstitutional, or failure of constitutional rule under voting law, space opens up, and I would ask the promoters to respect it. In a situation where we have a completely understandable decline in the voting interest of BiH citizens, or BiH citizens, a kind of manipulation of voting law, and that is one of the additional reasons that obliges us to comply with the general rule of Annex 4. I could, of course, do more about it, but these are just some of the reasons why I think this draft of the sea or should, of course, be completed. As for the replica I intended to present and which obliged me to cut this short now, I appreciate, since it is a very important legal project and a different character of thematicizing this issue of electoral law which is one of the basic or fundamental political rights of BiH citizens, but I expected that my colleague Špirić, whose discussions I very often disagree with, and I mind that he is already repeating this reaction to his discussions, again resorts not to calling for facts, but rather to very inappropriate assessments and characterisations. I would remind only that there are international officials who called on Srbin to leave Sarajevo and who invited them to stay in Sarajevo. Is this a chance to talk about it, too, I'm not sure. However, MP Špirić imposed this in one extremely inappropriate, inappropriate and unacceptable way. I also find it extremely inappropriate that he presented the reasons for which he, of course, remains to live in Banja Luka and is not ready to return to Sarajevo. It is a very inappropriate comparison between Sarajevo and Banja Luka, especially in the context of the debate, as we have heard, of the most important law after the Constitution, very inappropriate. I don't want to bother the facts, but I do believe that in such important discussions they need the fact that they're speaking, in fact, and I'm going to go on with it. Who invited Srbin to leave Sarajevo, and who invited them to stay in Sarajevo? I would also remind of the facts that speak about the position of Srbin in Sarajevo and the position of Hrvat and Bošnjak in Banja Luka. 10,000 people died in Sarajevo, there were no war conflicts in Banja Luka. There is no mosque in Banja Luka and we know very well what the percentage of Bošnjak is today in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4118	Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am sorry that, for the first time, I was able to replicate to Mr. Neimarlija, although in his replicas, Mr. Špirić, as I recall at the previous session, said that the MPs of the CD Coalition would perhaps consider other measures when it comes to me. Just to remind him that those replicas weren't always relevant, but I didn't consider it necessary to make a statement about them. Who invited whom? Nikola Špirić was a resident of the town of Sarajevo before the war. He was one of the best students, the best graduate, there's no one in this town's public life that I don't know him personally unless he was born at the time I left town. Nikola Špirić at that time did not belong to any of the ruling options, not to the SDA, not to the HDZ, not to the SDS, so he did not go to the invitation of those to whom Mr Neimarlija associated, but he was lucky to keep his head. What is worth to those who died in Sarajevo for being called by the party of Mr Neimarlija to stay and kill them. There's no comparison between Banja Luka and Sarajevo, and that's where I agree. There were no and no mass graves in Banja Luka, there are them in Sarajevo, but that's not the subject, the electoral law is on the agenda. It's just a replica. I mean, if it's going to be replicated, then it's going to be replicated to this. I warned of some things when it was said that a member of the BiH presidency, Mr. Alija Izetbegović, launched an initiative on the consistency of the people throughout BiH, it is not tragic but ridiculous to me. I've become Mr. Izetbegović's initiatives, I must tell you. I mean, until as long as Mr. Alija is a member of the BiH presidency and those who follow him that nothing will happen, Mr. Neimarlija, from your story. The fact that Mr. Haris is called, or I don't know who, that he got 20% of the votes in the RS entity, any Srbin who voted for Haris, I support him while he's alive and anyone who will vote for Haris. Here, I don't know how many of them. Who are you talking to about the multiethnicity of your list in RS? On your list are those unfortunate men who left the RS for this or that. Don't really embarrass yourself in front of the BiH public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4119	I called on MP Špirić to call for facts when discussions on such important issues are this serious. (I can personally make some publications interesting personal experiences and personal reasons.) The laws presuppose some elemental uniformity and require dissemination of experiences. Representatives of the international community, from Holburg and beyond, made a very precise and clear indication, which followed all these events in one way or another, directly involved who invited whom to leave Sarajevo or to stay in Sarajevo. I stated, and I expected my colleague Špirić to respect the facts, I did not want to elaborate them, obviously it is not relevant about the very serious differences between Banja Luka and Sarajevo and the staying of Srbin in Sarajevo and Bosniaks and Croats in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4120	Give me some of the law, please. I'm really asking you, give me about the law, so, I mean, it's more degutant to listen to this, here you go, Ambassador Silajdžić. 124
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4121	I don't want to talk about the law, Mr. Chairman, this is a replica. Now that the atmosphere is like this, let me remind you, a moment ago there was talk of us being abnormal and insulting. We've got insults, we've got abnormals. There were MPs who, beware, were male members of parliament who had a objection to the appearance of the BiH Council of Ministers, you can find this, says, you see what they look like, e, now, it can be a compliment, it can be an insult. As you can see, we don't know if we're normal or not. In any case, and in this regard we seem to be making progress. Of course we should talk seriously from this pay phone. I can tell you what I just heard from Mr. Špirić that it's a very serious thing for me too very difficult to hear. We know very well how people died in Sarajevo. We've got 300,000 witnesses here, we've watched blood on the streets, we've seen butchered people. The commander of those who threw these devices at Sarajevo is a certain Galić who is in The Hague today. Did you, Mr. Špirić, tell him that he was a proven Serbian patriot because the newspaper passed it on? Let me make a mistake. If it is, then you really have nothing more to say to me. I had to go out and say this on behalf of those in Sarajevo who know very well how we died, regardless of nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4122	I really think Mr. Silajdžić is right. I don't have anything to say to him, he doesn't have anything to say to me. I, for the sake of Mr Silajdžić's policy, left Sarajevo, and he does not do Nikola Špirić's politics. As far as Serbian generals are concerned, I know you'd rather not exist. The war that was waged in BiH has created Serb generals, whether they taste or not. I know that Mr. Haris Silajdžić would have preferred that all Srbin lay down, so that your policy would destroy what is not for BiH, but I suppose there would be neither Srbin nor generals. Giving the civil war at BiH level is a major tragedy. I guess it's a great experience, it hasn't happened again, but I don't think representatives, advocates of that policy at least can't replicate with Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4123	I don't allow any further discussion in this direction. He can't take it anymore. Mr. Ambassador, how about the law? It's just about the law. If it's not about the law, it'll be taken. All right, my people, you've come to the session, so what can I do for you to be messengers?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4124	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this agenda, I was having a little discussion and I said I was expecting a theater and the theater happened. We heard what we heard, and basically, we didn't do anything. The positions are clear and let's not lie behind the positions that stand, it's all clear tonight. The Commission, which proposed the Law, was discussed on two occasions. First we discussed the principles, later we discussed the details and made observations about each member. Today we agreed that after the motionor's report, there was no debate and we reopened the debate to say what we said, which 125 I don't think contributes to anything. It only contributes to the creation of public opinion and arguments for such or such a position. Those must be certain, I'm not going to name, we've achieved the effects, and we've come to this position that we've come to. I have three things to say. The first thing in this country was war. The war was stopped in Dayton and a compromise solution was made as it was done. We are followers and those who protect this current solution. Tonight, we have clearly opened the cards to show that we are no longer for these solutions, that we want total review, that we want to be happy that the Serbian member of the presidency chooses the whole of BiH and, say, to forgive Mr Bogičević, that he may be, we would be happy, because he was a member of a presidency that did his job the way he did and brought a country into what he had brought or not to list further.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4125	Let's talk about the law, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4126	So, we want the law to be chosen to the fullest extent of all BiH citizens, not to neglect the BiH Constitution and carry out a total review. Now, gentlemen, that won't work. That option won't work. All false oaths to democracy, to multiethnicity, to those attributes that have been used tonight, to Hellish rights, to human rights, and to all other norms beyond which many things can be covered and put on one veil that the ordinary world does not understand what it will be, it probably won't be able to. I think the point is to keep this debate going. It's all clear to us. We know about this detail law, and I apologize to the gentleman who found the time, has waited for us three times so far, and none of us has come out to ask one serious question, to enter a serious debate, to give us some answers and some parallels to be given to this law. The gentleman was wasting his time here and listening, I'm going to use another word, our nonsense, our thinking of how each and every one of us sees what BiH is like. Therefore, I propose that we bring this debate to an end and make a statement about this law, because in my view, this law is certainly a good basis, based on whom and public debates, a bill can be drawn up that needs to go into further procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4127	Mr. Banjac, I am now not addressing the chair or esteemed colleagues. I want it to be determined that you, consciously or unconsciously, have put us in a position to discuss things here that have nothing to do with the agenda and that you have led us to let MPs here, by Mr Silajdžić, through Mr Špirić and Mr,
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4128	And Mr. Lagumdžija. 126
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4129	And Mr. Lagumdžija now, to begin exposure to you by telling you that you will not speak of the Electoral Law and then you are consciously provoking here, Mr. Banjac. You're predicting there's a debate here about '91, '90, '92, '94. You consciously put this parliament in a position to argue about who he was when he killed. You consciously let Mr. Genjac here talk about the teletabis, so when that story didn't go through, then you started the war. Mr. Banjac, you are pulling this parliament by the nose and allowing here to discuss things that must not be discussed in any way by the Rules of Procedure or by political law. You've put this House here in a position to lead a fight that you belonged to, and Mr. Genjac and many others, which have led since the '90s. Until '92. And, Mr. Banjac, put these two laws to the vote, once you hear the opening statement on our law, please choose to prohibit everyone from speaking out of the agenda, especially about '92. and '95. It's not right for people who are missing today, to talk about them in this way, to make political change out of them here. You are directly responsible for this and you do not need to replicate anyone in any way. This is a shame what you did, in the way you did and I have no intention of answering your word anymore, whatever you said now, because you were embarrassing, when I first answered the word, when I wanted to talk about the law, in every way you tried to prevent me from talking about the law. When it didn't work out for you, when you heard about the Law what you don't like, then here you let the story of who he was when he shot and who killed and who then tried what. You are directly responsible for this, Mr. Banjac, and for me, the controversy with you is over.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4130	I'm glad you ended the controversy, because I have nothing to do with people like you. You've come here, sir, to promote some barren civil option which is far more nationalist than any other one, and I'm telling you plainly. If anyone here is making obstructions, then it's you and some of your members and it's your honor. Mr. Dear, on several occasions I asked you first not to do what you do and to take a word like your gentleman from your party, calling for when and force more to impose something that is not in accordance with the Constitution and calling for force on the other side to take away what is in accordance with the Constitution. Don't get involved, sir. Neither am I. You've said a lot here for this pay phone. You have called a lot for the protection of the interests of Srbin etc., say to protect the Srbin Bogić Bogičević, not to protect the Srbin. No Niko behind you stands by the Srbin except for this man I told you his name and remember it once and don't do it here, whenever you've come here, you've made a political promotion by deliberately provoking, I repeat here deliberately stalling about the agenda, about anything, just let it stall, let there be a promotion. When others tried to replicate what you were doing, then you brazenly, very boldly produced, because the one who has no arguments has impudence, that's you, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4131	Maybe women will say two smarter sentences. Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament. If I'd listened to those kids I gave birth to when I took an oath in this House of Representatives, so I'd say, come on, kids can do both cartoons and 127 of this and that, but people who are two or more years old, like this, I'm really disappointed. The people who worked in that group, they probably made an effort. I've learned it from you in the last 13 months and listened to some of the laws of hard work, effort, what hasn't been done and done. Now I'm sorry that the task force has agreed to be Drago Ljubičić, if Mr Silajdžić or Alma Čolo or anyone else, I'm just wondering if this situation would be the same. I mean, it's really extreme insecure. What don't you say about all this stuff that's been said. Someone's in the way. Someone wants to act, someone won't, somebody knows, somebody doesn't know. What it was, no one should ever forget. That there's a force never to happen again. You know how hard it is to have one child, and all the mothers gave birth to it, and they left and now they're acting like this, uh, this is, uh, people, out of their minds. I came with 200 and a few miles to listen to these stories of yours here. I want to hear from you, if there is no debate and no vote on this law, I will no longer sit and listen here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4132	It will be now. Here, two replicas and an end.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4133	This is a replica of you, Mr. Chairman, not as chairman but as an MP, because it seems to me that you spoke here as an MP. It is not true, Mr. Banjac, that we fight only for one Srbin and that we have only one Srbin, we have very much. I believe it's hard for you to believe, but here's the town I come from, you can come and see for yourself. The other thing is, it's not true that we run a nationalist policy, comparing the party that I belong to and the party from which you come from, let the public tell who's running the nationalist policy. A third thing, and when it's controversy, it should remain within the limits of some correctness of human dignity and respect. Fourth thing, we're not paralysing this House's work. Take the draft laws that are on the agenda today, and even earlier, take the amendments, etc., and you will see that this is one correct approach from the political position that I come from. I can understand that you don't like it. I can understand that you don't agree with that concept, it's all understandable, but I can't understand that that's how you present it here in the radius.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4134	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the hatred with which, Mr. Banjac, you spoke of this speaker about SDP, multiethnicity, about Srbin who do not belong to your political option really remind me of the '90 period. Until '92. years and obviously your conscious intention to start your future is to look at that plan. It was really ugly to look at this speaker of a man who belonged to a political option that committed so much evil, I'm not just talking about Sarajevo, I'm talking about the Serbian people. An evil that hasn't been stopped yet. The evil that's rolling in the streets of Belgrade today, all with the story that it's in the name of it. 128
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4135	I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4136	You're not taking it, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4137	I'm closing up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4138	You are the speaker of this House and did not take your word, chairing, when you insulted Mr Bogičević, one of the honorary names of the political life of the former Yugoslavia's space. May you be ashamed and ashamed. I don't belong to the category of people when the Krajišnik was trying to distract such games.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4139	You've been taken from me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4140	You can't take my word for it, because you didn't even give me the word. The word I'm saying is the word of Srbin who have been killed by such politics, the word of Bošnjak, Hrvat. I speak for them and, Mr. Chairman, if you will not lead the assembly in principle, not with these cheap school games that will eventually end, sir, in The Hague. Your teachers are already there.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4141	You see, a man who insults like this deserves to be away. I'm warning you, and one more sentence you'll be far away, and if you need security to call from the O.R., I'll try, sir. And that you know I'll try.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4142	Gentlemen and Mr. Chairman, I have taken the floor, not to commit myself to any side, I have taken the word not to be smart, not to document, not to experience academically here, not to flirt, not perhaps to bid on my own importance, but just to appeal to you all, to us, to reduce these passions, to turn our minds, to realize that this is a very delicate institution, that this is a top state institution, a representative of the legislative authorities, and in that sense to do our job. I didn't come to this parliament early, but I got a glimpse that there was more political rallying going on here than actual work. I know that BiH is a country in a difficult 129th position, that this poverty, both Croatian and Muslim and Serbian, is also in a difficult position. I am aware of the context of political opportunities, but let us, however, do something for both this people and this reality, etc. Why all the fighting, which always opens up some of these past things, those wounds that may still be bleeding, that haven't even healed, so let's look at this future for once, and let's at least do something. We're all smart, we've all read a lot of things, and historical literature and literature, etc. And we all know how well to talk, maybe it's some doctors, some are masters, teachers, etc., but it's all their intimate, private matter. Here we are chosen by the people, (public activities) and only by our honesty, honesty, by working here we can do something smart. We've been fighting here all day, so to speak, none of the agenda points have been taken care of. Well, it's not right, though. I repeat, let's turn to work, seriousness, a little tolerance for someone, that passion, that bickering. We here answer to the people, both Hrvat and Srbin and Musliman, not just their political parties who have delegated us here, so much for that. I'd like to say one more thing, maybe it won't be nice to someone, but I see BiH as a decentralised state. Experience has shown that the Karadzic Yugoslavia, due to its integralist tendencies, has had no perspective because of its centralist tendencies, and despite its help from the west and conservative circles inside, it has failed. She fell most of all because of this integrated Yugoslavism and this centralism, that she simply couldn't stand it. So-called Tito's Yugoslavia suffered the same cause of centralism, integration, etc. I'm afraid for BiH, if it is centralized, something will be fine again. This bill, it seems to me that he's running centralization and there's nothing wrong with him again. Dejton and Washington agreements give the impression of decentralised tendencies. Therefore, our law now leads a little backwards. As a Hrvat, I would not want my member of the BiH presidency to choose, that is, that his choice depends on some elements that with Croatianism, so to speak, have nothing to do with it. Anyway, I would like him to be elected by the Croatian people and that he represents the Croatian people and also not some other people. It is one thing that Mr. Tokić noted, 4,000 Serbian refugees in Drvar do not, so to speak, have no rights, I think, because the head of the Drvar municipality is a Srbin, therefore, it can be said that these people are accomplishing something. I'm finishing this whole thing, and I'm undermining, come on, please, patience, less passion to talk a little more about things, because something has to be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4143	Namely, just one observation, so to speak, of a methodological nature regarding the course of these sessions of ours. Since we very often say that we want to look up to Europeans, I think it would be good if, when and during this parliamentary session, we were to look a little bit at their experiences and on this plan. In fact, we've spent certainly 2-3 hours today on things that are absolutely out of the context of the agenda. I am a member of this Parliament's Parliamentary delegation in the OSCE as well as my esteemed colleague Deretić and there, for example, we have seen that the agenda is structured by the completion of the 130 priority work within 2-3 days, which refers to specific things, political, economic, security and other nature, so that at the end of that last day is left for what is called... ie, the general debate. Whoever has time to listen to those stories and who's free enough to sit and listen to what people say on a different basis, come to this general debate and listen to that debate. I think it would be good and useful for the College to consider the possibility of calling special sessions where people would run for various issues that are not excessively connected to the agenda, and yet in some ways tang, provoke the debate daily in Parliament. I know that it is very difficult in some way to refrain from being out of the sphere of what is priority, in the debate does not turn to what is marginal in that debate. I think it would be useful for the chairman to, of course, take care of one preliminary agreement of all MPs, to take a word from each MP at the outset when it comes out of the agenda, and to consider calling some thematic sessions where a general debate on everything and everything would be opened, where people could simply apologize. I fully agree with those MPs who say that they are waiting, I don't know, they have a bus, train or I don't know which means of transport and we all have other priority jobs than to listen to what we've been listening to, I will absolutely, in the spirit of some constructive proposal that I intend to give here, refrain from any qualification of debates that have been given here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4144	As MP Deretić comes out, no one here can take his word. Here you can only physically drive him away if he won't, just don't give up people and we'll consider, this is a good proposal to schedule general debates, so whoever wants to listen and there's no problem, this is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4145	Dear fellow Members, here, right now it is exactly 18 hours and 25 minutes, I think it would be good to bring this session to an end today, in this context, Mr President, I ask you to put this proposal to the vote, with regrettably once again to realize that, indeed, it is up to you to be very patiently, possibly well-intentioned in the conduct of Parliament, therefore, these sessions, we come to situations where the very unpleasant situations and discussions that are past the agenda points. My proposal is clear and I would like to ask another distinguished colleague of Tokić that, indeed, from now on, he will show in his discussions less zeal and concern for the Serbian people, both in the RS and in the whole of BiH. Because he will best know how to show, already now, both in the local elections and in the election on the first Saturday of the tenth month, so to whom he will give his vote. I pray that Mr. Tokić and the rest of the indifferences may they take care of the one they took care of until '92. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4146	I now suggest that he take the word of the promoter that, if he wishes to answer any questions, or Mr. Moris on behalf of the Proposer. What he heard about the dilemma about the law. Is anything accepted and to what extent? Do you need to say something? 131
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4147	Mr. Chairman, I think there is a need, in the capacity of the legislator of this law, to say only in the end, before the plea, a few words. Listen to these discussions on this agenda point, I think we could all notice what kind of state this is and what kind of conflicts of interest this country is dealing with. We've talked a lot so far, so here we are, and today we've talked about the importance and importance of this law for BiH and for the people in BiH, and the debate has turned into something else entirely. So this agenda point was clearly used to potentiate something we may have wanted, we did not realize. Dejton ended the war in these areas. I think most of the people in BiH are satisfied with the Dayton Peace Agreement in that part that the agreement has stopped the war and the conflicts in these areas and the deaths. It is obvious that they are not satisfied with the agreement, on some other issues, either of these three constituent peoples in BiH. Therefore, someone has said here one finding, so no law that has been passed or that we need to pass will be such a law that everyone in BiH will be satisfied with the law. Therefore, neither should we expect this electoral law to satisfy everyone. So it's not ideal, considering exactly these interests and conflicts that are still today, so clearly expressed in many discussions that we've had the opportunity to hear here. Now that I'm out, in the end, I'll be done with this, Mr. Chairman. I would really like, like, here, an MP, or delegate to the Council of Nations, and in the role of the promoters of this draft, to understand one reality, one truth, BiH, that's one new BiH, that's not the BiH that was before the war, it's probably not BiH that we wanted in the course of the war, so there's a whole new state, a whole new BiH, and that's our reality, and if we're ready, and if we accept that we live in that BiH, new BiH, I think there's got to be a lot more understanding among us, a lot more tolerance and a lot more respect. This means, in the end and in the adoption of all laws, there must be much more compromises and consensus when we declare that this law is passed. We have to, we don't need to vote for this law or some law that we're not entirely satisfied with as humans or as members of a group and a nation, but...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4148	Mr. Lagumdžija asked for an individual statement. An individual statement is needed to remain in the stenogram very precisely by the name and last name of who voted, which, unfortunately, will not happen this time, because you, Mr. Chairman, during our plea for, against and abstention, did not repeat in the microphone how who voted, and I am not sure that from the lower lines of parliament it is heard that who voted and that they will remain in the archives of parliament. This is just one suggestion for the future.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4149	Very good suggestion. Alagić Raifa - v Branković Nedžad - abstentioned Čolo Alma - v Genjac Halid - v Jahić Adnan - v 132 Kadić Rasim – v Neimarli Hilmo – abstention of Pamuk Mustava – v Silajdžić Haris – v Bogić Bogičević – v Zlatko Lagumdžija – v Muminagić Suad – v Tokić Sejfudin – v Pašalić Anita – v Anita Mikulić – v Baković Mirko – v Bećirbašić Smail – v Malkić Abdurahman – v Deretić Miodrag – for Bošnjak Milenko – for Dokić Branko – for Jovanović – for Rakić Vito – for Banjac Mirko – for Perkanović Mara – for Rađević Desanka – for Špirić Nikola – for the sake. I think it's important that this stays. We're going to point b. Ad.b) Election law Please ask the Proposer to submit exposures.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4150	Ladies and gentlemen, the SDP of BiH has proposed an election law in the form of a draft and so far we have twice explained the draft of the electoral law, so I won't be taking up much of your time. We have come from the Dayton Peace Agreement, from its provisions, that BiH is a state with two multiethnic entities and three equal nations and that BiH will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights and freedoms provided by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, without discrimination on any basis. We've come especially from Article 2. The BiH Constitution, that the rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its protocols will be directly applied in BiH and that it will take priority over any other law. We adopt this law as permanent, not temporary measures, and it will determine the future of BiH in Europe and the world. What is important, which we insist on ensuring the active and passive right to vote for every man in BiH, so that he can choose and be elected. We must comply with European standards in line with the demands of the Council of Europe and that we must interpret that political pluralism is not national pluralism and that elections from year to year must not be converted into an ethnic census. 133 We have accepted a number of suggestions, which have been made in the debate and have embed them in the draft electoral law, which we have also made, and I will brief you on what we have adopted. We agree with the proposal that among the signatories who support the participation of a party in the elections, it should not be at least 15% of the constituent peoples, as provided for in Article 85. The law. We also accepted suggestions to delete from the Electoral Law provisions relating to the direct selection of prosecutors in the Federation of BiH and RS, so that the bill deleted the provisions of Articles 114 and 117 of the Bill. However, we know that such practice exists in the world, but we accepted suggestions. It is now in the Federation of BiH in the process of passing laws on the election of judges and prosecutors, so we have suggested that this issue be regulated in the law as well. The prosecutor's office is extremely important for the prevention of corruption and crime that are very pronounced in our society so that their direct choice should strengthen and ensure their independence and independence. As the report on the public debate on the draft election law shows, several MPs from the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, as well as many scientific and public workers, at several round tables and other meetings, supported proposals in the SDP Election Law to provide active and passive voting rights to all citizens of BiH, to elect representatives of the House of Representatives and all members of the BiH presidency, throughout the territory. The general opinion is that here is the fact that the BiH Constitution is made up of many international acts, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, the International Treaty on Civil and Political Rights and others and that they are incorporated into the BiH Constitution. In the drafting of the Election Law, we had in mind the provisions of the Constitution on non-discrimination, Article 2.4. The BiH Constitution and provisions of the European Convention and the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, which form the BiH Constitution and must be respected. They have the same legal power in our opinion. Other remarks and proposals made on the proposal for our law, we also think they have a foothold in the Constitution, starting with the general principles of international law, which will be part of BiH law and both entities. BiH, as a multiethnic state and that entities are multiethnic, according to the Preamble of the Constitution, Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat are constituent peoples of BiH and hence none of these peoples can be minorities in either part of BiH. Therefore, we will insist that the future Constitution of BiH and the Constitution of the Federation of BiH and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia comply with the BiH Constitution. Also, when it comes to the provision of a member of 4.3, under which the Constitutional Court will also have an appeal jurisdiction on issues under this constitution arising from the opinion of any court in BiH, in the proposed law, insists on judicial protection of BiH citizens' rights. The main observation that the draft electoral law, almost fully regulates the choice of authorities at all levels, from the municipal council to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in all entities, is only partially accurate. Since the bill dropped provisions relating to the choice of prosecutors, the choice of the president of Canton, the mayor of municipalities, mayors, etc. 134 The proposed Electoral Law predominates the need to ensure unity of the electoral system, i.e. that instead of the principles of ethnocrats, it is necessary to provide the principle of democracy in the choice of power. Election rights are basic human rights and must be guaranteed and realised throughout BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4151	I'm opening a debate on this draft. Who's calling for a hearing? I'm asking one more time. Who's calling for a hearing? There isn't. We've got one.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4152	The Bureau, fellow MPs, the draft draft that we first discussed, was not consistent in my court in terms of the Constitution's request. For the draft proposal offered by the SDP, I would say for my part that it is not consistent in terms of the principle on which it was made, which he assumed, I mean the European Charter and the equality of the citizens and the people of BiH throughout the BiH area, i.e., I am saying this because I expected the first proposal to be maximumly realistic, and the second, given the declared principles, is ideal. So I consider it unideal and for illustration I only hold that it does not assume, does not ensure equality of the members of the constituent peoples in both entities, since it is only one illustration, it does not predict the House of Peoples in the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4153	As for this argument of the SDP election law draft, I will point out, regardless of the fact that certain suggestions have been adopted here, when it comes to certain solutions. I have already pleaded before when we discussed this draft, and then I said that this draft of the electoral law, unfortunately, comes from the fact that in fact, it is a complete procedure when it comes to elections at all levels in BiH, the truth, as well as the earlier draft that we have just said. However, in my deep opinion, the negativity, at least from my point of view, as MPs, is precisely that it solves certain provisions too uniformly, therefore, certain provisions that are very important for the creation of each citizen of the RS and when it comes to the election process itself, leads to further unitaryisation, leads to further erosion of entities or RS as such. When it comes to the constitutionality of the people, certain solutions are being prejudged here, regardless of the procedure before the BiH Constitutional Court, there are already certain findings that are absolutely unacceptable to me, as MPs, and in this context I will vote against him.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4154	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think this is one responsible moment. During the debate on the Electoral Law, we pointed out the need to seriously approach the creation of an electoral law based on 135 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms and that BiH's affirmation as a decentralised state would be three equal constituent peoples with two equal entities. The previous two debaters talked about some sloppyness, we as proposings are ready to work together for the well-being of both the RS and the Federation of BiH, to get a law that will be in the interest of all citizens, and I call on all members of the BiH Parliament to approach their voters responsibly and to declare this law as a good basis for making the electoral law. Mr Deretić did not fully talk about these members that would point to unitaryisation, however, I can responsibly, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, say that our idea was not a unitaryisation, if there are such members, I am, of course, ready to avoid such traps together, because no one is in the interest of building a unitary neither BiH, nor the Federation of BiH, but on the basis of European traditions, we are building a decentralised state in which local administration and self-government, and then the election of responsibility of elected representatives will be brought to the highest degree. I, the chairman, would ask that the same conclusion we had here, suggest that, but respecting many other facts, means, sometimes beyond some of our own personal views, we must decide what we have an obligation to do in the BiH Parliament. On that side, I would suggest that this debate be concluded as well. We have a proposal to approach the plea to shorten, i.e. allow for further procedure of debate on this law in Parliament, and I think it is our obligation to decide on one of these proposals and to continue working.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4155	Would you like to take your word for it, Mr. Moris? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to point out that this draft election law has never been considered as anything other than grounds for further work and amendments. I'll just mention one example, and this is an example of the right to the voice of displaced persons and refugees. First of all, those who say that the right to vote in the places where people lived in 1991 is no longer the rule, but becomes an exception, seem to have not read this draft law. As for the rights given to all citizens of this country to choose whether they want to vote in their permanent residence, which are those in which they lived in 1991 or in their current residences, where they currently live, that is the personal right given to every citizen of this country. This law considers the normal place of voting to be the permanent residence. This law also says that you need to live in one place for six months, after you can be considered to be your current place of residence. I was also saying that maybe this six-month period isn't enough. It may take a year, maybe two years, to discuss that in any case, and other problems. When I say that, then I strictly adhere to Annex 3 of the Dayton Agreement, that's exactly what that annex is saying, no less or less. I'll also say that the task force didn't think she was in a position to skip the Constitution. The question isn't whether I like the Constitution or not. What I have to do is stick to the Constitution and no law can break 136 of the Constitution, that's not possible. That is precisely why the current draft of the electoral law is strictly within the existing constitution, and the question is not whether I like it or not. Let me just say one more thing to those who suggest something completely different. Change the Constitution first, it is possible, however, it stands in the Constitution itself. Parliament must not be asked, asking Parliament to adopt a law that would be against the Constitution. If you want to change the Constitution first, then you can have other solutions, for example. on the election of members of the BiH presidency. It was my duty to put on the table a strong and solid basis for the future of this country, and we tried to take what is best from the Constitution and the best from the existing systems in the world. We've been working on it for 18 months. I never said and, please, I'll say it again. I never said this law couldn't be changed. This is just the beginning of one process of change. I therefore appeal to MPs here today to see this law as one beginning of the process of opening the discussion, to open the process of making amendments in one, so to speak, to the normal parliamentary procedure, to consider each legislative act. I'm afraid if we stopped the discussion here, this country would be deprived of something very important, and that's the Electoral Law. I don't think that's the right way, and that's why I'm asking you now to move on to step two and start discussing the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4157	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Parliament, we have heard the final presentation of the chairman's expert group to draw up this draft. I suggest we make a statement about this draft and finish point a) by the end and it was Mr. Branko Dokić's proposal yes, but first you said you wanted to take it apart. I asked us to go together, so you said we wouldn't go together, we will go apart. When I respect what you say, be angry, when I don't respect you, be angry. Mr Branko Dokić suggested that there be a debate on the second draft, and only then to vote. You're at the beginning, when I wanted to go like that, I said, "No, we're going at points." Is Branko giving up his proposal? I'm just asking MP Dokić if you're giving up your proposal? We think we should do as we agreed at first. A five-minute break. Gentlemen, gentlemen, how many MPs are there? - 26. [[PAUZA]] Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4158	Last time I discussed it, I felt, given the length of the debate on this law and possibly the same length of the next law that we're going to discuss, that we won't be able to do it until the end tonight, and I thought it was useful what I said, that after all this, there was a chance that, possibly with some additional guarantees and explanations, we would be able to prepare all the material for the next assembly. Meanwhile, in the course of the break, those who are farthest and most difficult to live on, have convinced me that they are ready to stay as long as it takes to discuss the second law tonight, therefore, it can be done in order to keep the debate on this law to vote on it, and after that, but then, indeed, to continue immediately tonight on the second law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4159	I suggest the next conclusion. First you hear the conclusion. The question will be who is for this draft electoral law to go into further procedure, as a basis for drawing up the draft electoral law, and that the proposaler, in this direction, and in accordance with the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, observes the remarks and suggestions of the MPs. Am I accurate? Is this all clear? If there's no one here, please, I don't know anymore, the latest state is always changing – 27, but according to this one here plus there's more. Alagić Raifa – would you like to conclude? – v Branković Nedžad – abstentioned Čolo Alma – v Filipović Medih – there is no Genjac Halid – v Jahić Adnan – v Kadić Rasim – v Neimarli Hilmo – abstention of Pamuk Mustafa – v Bogić Bogičević – v Lagumdžija Zlatko – v Muminagić Suad – v Divković Ivo – there is no Tokić Sejfudin – v Pašalić Ivica – v Anita Mikulić – v Baković Mirko – LozančiLozančić Ivo – there is no Bećirbašić Smail – v Malkić Abdurahman – v Deretić Miodrag – for Bošnjak Milenko – for Dokić Branko – for Jovanović Branislav – for Rakić Vito – for Banjac Mirko – for Perkanović Mara – for Rađević Desanka – for Šprić Nikola – for Šprić Silajdžić Haris – against us to say. - 9 for, versus 15, abstention 2. - 16 is against it. That's 27. Is it true that there is – 27. For the proposal of this conclusion, the vote went like this. 16 out of 27 was against it. For, there were nine and two abstentions. This draft didn't get the necessary consent to go into further procedure. There's no need entity, because the structure can be seen that there's no entity majority and there's no need to carry on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4160	He invited all MPs to overcome the antagonisms, to join this responsible task together with all those initiatives we heard in the debate. There were a lot of good initiatives. Among other things, these two discussions that we had and colleague Drago Ljubičić had in his bill a lot of good solutions, and you heard that the Council of Europe has a request to adopt this electoral law as soon as possible. He, however, is not a condition for admission to the Council of Europe, at least that's how the rapporteur cited it, but certainly, as soon as possible, we better get a quality electoral law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4161	Since no one has applied for the discussion, how many are present? - 26. Please, I want this part of the job quite properly. I'm reading the proposal for a conclusion. The question will be who is for this draft electoral law, the promoter of the SDP Club to go into further procedure, as the basis for the draft electoral law, and that the Proposer, in this direction, and in accordance with the Constitution and the Dayton Peace Agreement, observes the remarks and suggestions of MPs, therefore, literally identical text. I will now call the MPs individually. Alagić Raifa – for Branković Nedžad – for Čolo Alma – abstentioned Filipović Mediha – there is no Pa I repeat Alagić Raifa – for Branković Nedžad – for Čolo Alma – abstentioned Genjac Halid – for Jahić Adnan – for Kadić Rasim – for Neimarlija Hilmo – abstentioned Pamuk Mustafa – for Silajdžić Haris – for Bogić Bogičević – for Zlatko Lagumdžija – for Muminagić Suad – for Tokić Sejfudin – for Pašalić Ivica – against Anita Mikulić – against Baković Mirko – against Bećbašić Smail – absten 139 Malkić Abdurahman – for Deretić Miodrag – against Bošnjak Milenko – against Jovanović – against Branislav Vito – against Rakić Vito Branko against Mirko Dokić against Mirko – against Banjac – against Perkanović – against Mirko Mara against Mirko – against Rađević Desanka against Mirko – against Mirko – against Bećirbašić – against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko - against Mirko Špirić Nikola – v. We have 12 for. [[We can't do that.]] Please, will you listen? Now, let's see, against 11 and 3 abstentions. The law doesn't have any majority, it's already visible from the structure, it hasn't passed this one either. I find that this draft electoral law has not received the necessary majority. No, I'm sad. Sir, if you will, there was an Electoral Law here, if you will, an expert group, which is in accordance with the BiH Constitution and you were against it and, of course, that I am sad that you were against it. You misread the look on my face. Thank you very much. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Don't run, we have two more points that we can do without any problems within 10 minutes. Please, let's do this. Ad.7. Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 1.1 to 1.12.1999 wait until we agree on how long we will work. There's a few, come on, please, let's work out a few things. Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Ambassador, I ask you to listen. It seems to me that we have a consensus on the motion for a decision to organise the Secretariat, let's put it in a function that these people, to get operational, let's, if we're going to skip this point and leave, let's at least finish this one. Can we get along at least here? Why can't we skip if it's in our best interest? Please, we have two suggestions. Are we going to figure out how long we're going to be working tonight, so how far do we get? Wait a minute. Let me say it. We have a proposal if you want us to stop working. We can continue the work on the 25th, it's today at 10 o'clock. But, guys, it's best we stall by September. It's a holiday tomorrow. We can't keep working tomorrow, you know it's a holiday tomorrow. We have a chance, we have to finish the session because of the urgency of these decisions that are holding us back. The college is a unique attitude to continue 25 at 10 o'clock. We have consent.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4162	Please, Mr. Banjac, the College is scheduled for the session. We'll schedule the session, and you'll decide if you'll come. Remember, you'll get a call for 25, and whoever can come can. 140 congregations suspended their work at 7:30. 141
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4164	Gentlemen, honored guests, we are continuing the work of the 16th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Meetings 26, 16 from the Federation of BiH and 10 MPs from RS are present, in total 26. We have a quorum, and we can do it right. According to an official report by the Secretariat, the absence from the session was announced by MPs: Mikulić Anita due to her illness, Ivo Mijačević due to her illness, Zlatko Lagumdžija, official trip, Ljubomir Zovko official trip and Ivo Lozančić due to her official trip, as well as Milenka Bošnjak for prevention. Ivo Divković announced he would be late for official reasons and will join the post-work. Minister Mirsad Kurtović informed me that he was unable to attend the session due to talks in Luxembourg and informed that his deputy would attend the session instead. We broke up the session last time with the 6th point, so now we're going to the 7th point. Ad.7. Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act for the period 1.1 to 1.12.1999. I'm opening an information debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4165	Madam Chairman, gentlemen Members of Parliament, dear guests, this information should have been discussed on our Working Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs. Unfortunately, we scheduled the third session three times and failed to hold our agreement and discuss this information. I would only point out, it is very short, but it contains things that do not support us and, in conversation with Mr Milenko Bošić, who was present, for one of our unsustained meetings of the Commission, he said that she is what she is, and reflects the real state. I think that today, or I suggest that we conclude that, not as an emergency, but with a certain deadline, on 31.03. this year, the implementing rules are passed and around 19 are missing. I've listed them here by the dots for our record. 19 at BiH level and 13 at entity level. So that's what I think needs to be done most urgently so that we have equal operating conditions and through customs offices, customs offices itself, customs offices, other customs services, and also that all those involved in foreign business would have about the same conditions. Many shortcomings, as shown by this brief information, but I think that the problems that are concrete on the ground can be delivered to these working committees, which are designed to adopt implementing regulations and 142 to then, out of the practical problems that arise on the ground, maybe the Commission's work speeds up and becomes more content and more efficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4166	The esteemed presidency, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to say something about the findings in this information. The BiH Council of Ministers was found to have almost no feedback from entities implementing customs policy and tariff regulations. That the BiH Council of Ministers receives information from the CAFAO or from the funds of information on affairs, which I think is incomprehensible for one government, including the BiH government. It has been found that entity institutions do not supply the requested information, and that CAFAO has no obligation to do so, do what is logical, and the final finding that has most intrigued me, that BiH does not act as a single external trade area. This is all in the information. I just figured it out in my own order. For me, these findings are very worrying because they show that BiH institutions are unable to perform their constitutional function, the function given to them in the BiH Constitution. I would like to remind you that the Constitution has regulated that customs policy is in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, that the BiH Council of Ministers, in its responsibilities, is responsible for policy implementation, I stress that policy implementation means, not only for proposing, and BiH's decisions in the areas of BiH institutions' competence. The constitution also prescribed that entities and all their administrative units would fully comply with the constitution, as well as the BiH institutions' decision. I have read these constitutional provisions, which I would like to argue is that there is a constitutional framework to regulate these issues, meaning, then, that the problem or in the regulations, that they are not defined until the end, or in the functioning of our institutions, the Council of Ministers of BiH and the competent ministry. It means that in this information, which ends with objectives and conclusions, I should also point out these issues, i.e. to give some direction of activity in order to overcome this situation, which is discussed in the first part of the information. I am therefore surprised that, in addition to BiH's accession to the World Trade Organisation and the transition from stand by the arrangement to Asaf's arrangement, the esaf arrangement, in relations with the IMF, does not stand, in my opinion, the most important goal, which is to ensure the implementation of the established policy and regulation in this area. I therefore propose that this be our conclusion, and in conclusion, it should also be the task of the BiH Council of Ministers reviewing the legal and other regulations and proposing, i.e. to install the provisions, to put into place where the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH does not bring them, but directly to the Council of Ministers of BiH sublegal acts to ensure that they can monitor the implementation of customs policy and customs tariffs, regardless of which body implements them and that they are timelyly determining and proposing measures for their timely adaptation. These proposals are in the direction of creating conditions where they are not created by legal regulations, so that the Council can enforce policy, implement established policy, and where they are established by legal regulations to insist on their implementation. Thank you. 143
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4167	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I think that, no matter how satisfied and dissatisfaction may be in terms, not only of foreign trade and customs policy, otherwise in the life of BiH and its entities, this is an area in which entities and central institutions of BiH are clearly defined and what I am looking forward to in this information is that it is clearly indicated that the regulations are respected and that the contexts and powers of entities and central authorities, i.e. the BiH Council of Ministers, are clearly supervised. Therefore, the assessments presented in the Information essentially give a solid assessment of the situation in the conduct of foreign trade policy and customs policy, except in point 2 of this information, which speaks of excise duties that are not in the world anywhere, as part of foreign trade and customs policy, but of tax policies which are strictly within the jurisdiction of the entity. I don't know if this is an accident or if it was deliberately inserted into the Information, but I don't think this kind of insertion is going to help achieve better results in the domain of foreign trade and customs policy than it has been achieved. What is also not good, and what should be nurtured is that, writing this information, or making up any other documents, an active co-operation of the entity governments needs to be achieved in order to obtain valid information at the level of the joint bodies. This is not only the case when it comes to foreign trade customs policy, but also otherwise, and I think that such a principle should be cherished, so that we do not enter into conflict with the interests of entities and central authorities and thus get the continuing controversy which, I am convinced, will not help BiH. I have concrete observations and remarks on this Information which I have written more as a political document than a document that could, in economic terms, contribute to the development of BiH and its future progress in this area. Under the notion of a hole in the border, the notion of a hole in the border knows no law domestically or internationally, no law that regulates foreign trade or customs policy, and it is difficult to assume what it implies and it is unacceptable to deliver such a thing to the highest legislative authority for adoption. As for the irregularity of the borders, the proposal for information again makes a very inaccurate suggestion. It is true that border crossings at BiH level are unsettled and technically unequipped and that is why I am ready to propose a new conclusion that reads. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly supports activities related to regulating border crossings taken by the BiH Council of Ministers and the entity government, as well as activities related to improving trade in Southeast Europe. That could be a solid conclusion, regarding this information. I don't think the insertion of termological misunderstandings is going to contribute to the more actively elaborated matter. Second thing, or third thing, whatever you want, or conclusion number four. I, of course, spoke to the Republic Administration of Customs RS, had no opportunity to speak at the Customs Entity of BiH, and what I was told there did not match what was written in this Information, so it would be good to level these things. The Republic Customs Administration shall have an information system which shall process the necessary data relating to 144 external trade and the collection of duties. I suppose the Federation of BiH also has such an information system. All relevant entities in BiH, who sought data related to imports-exports or charges, received timely and requested data from the republican customs administration. So it's not true that correspondence with data doesn't exist, it's only a question of whether these data are being searched in time and whether they're looking for what the Republic administrations are able to deliver. Regular or occasional republican customs administrations provide data to the IMF, the World Bank, the CAFAO, the Central Bank of BiH, the Government of the RS and others. It also regularly exchanges the necessary information with the Federation of BiH Customs Administration. In the customs administrations of entities, identical information systems will be implemented, which will provide the necessary information to participants in external trade. So, to the end transparently. Using these systems, the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, will be able to have all the necessary data from its jurisdiction as well as the appropriate resolution ministries of the entity's government. This is the principle we should cultivate, so that we do not enter into mutual doubts between the entities, and that, of course, the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the central authorities of BiH, would take advantage of their respective competence, related to foreign trade and customs policy. It is true that the policy is defined at the level of the joint bodies or the BiH Council of Ministers, as is true that it is implemented in entities and at the end of the 6th conclusion. I agree that BiH's customs and foreign trade policies must be given due, almost more attention than they seem. All the laws defining this matter clearly distinguish the powers of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers of BiH, the entity governments and the customs administrations of entities. If all adhere to the law of the prescribed powers, it is not possible to have a conflict of jurisdiction. If everyone applies what is legally theirs, there can be no conflict of jurisdiction. And when it comes to the powers of international representatives, and above all, the IMF had objections to the powers of the Council of Ministers of BiH and it is true and it is only true that it is required that these powers be transferred to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so that there cannot be a conflict of jurisdiction and that there is no demand for jurisdiction from the entity, but that part of the powers of the Council of Ministers of BiH be transferred to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that is the only truth, and I think this information should stand in such conclusions. In essence, I don't even know what the fate of this information is, whether we adopt it or not, but what we insist on is that this information be primarily accurate, based on those powers that individual authorities in BiH have, that BiH, essentially, could develop in this segment as well, on the basis of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4168	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we have this information and that, based on it, we can give some grades in the area of customs policy. First, it's a good thing we have before us the passing of a new law, and as far as I know, we are obliged to pass the new customs policy and customs tariff law by the end of March. We also know that the High Representative has extended the existing law by his decision and it is certain that we must deal with this matter today that is very important for the development of BiH and the development of the overall economy in BiH. That is why I insist that the Council of Ministers of BiH clearly define the future activities that should be clearly defined here, what 145 must do by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, what must be done by the Council of Ministers of BiH, what must be done by the entity governments and what must be done by the customs administrations. This information, in my opinion, is not accurate, is partly, I would even say, incorrect and in that sense, I think that it should be clearly defined on the basis of the findings of international experts that monitor customs administrations and monitor overall customs policy implementation. In that sense, I propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to clearly define in its programme what are whose powers, what who has not done even though the lady from the Foreign Trade Commission has said here how many sublegal acts have not yet been brought in and what should be brought in yet. Here we have, let me say, three things. We have legislative activity, investment, to edit what needs to be arranged so that these customs crossings can be faster missed by goods and citizens, so that there are no crowds at certain imperial crossings and international standards that are important and overall implementation of international standards for BiH to become a member of the World Trade Organisation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4169	Who wants to discuss it further? No more reports, and I'm closing the discussion. Gentlemen, based on what I heard, following the discussion, I suggest the next conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives took note of the Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act from 1.1. to 1.12.1999 and proposed that the Council of Ministers consider, in accordance with its jurisdiction in this area, the observations and suggestions of the Members' conclusions and that, in accordance with its competence in its further work. A stenogram and written conclusions on this agenda item will be sent to the BiH Council of Ministers by the Secretariat of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I thought all the conclusions went evenly, that we don't discriminate against anyone, that's what I wanted. A stenogram and written materials once more to read, there's one remark from a fellow Genjac. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives took note of the Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy and Tariff Act in the period 1.1 to 1.12.1999 and proposed that the Council of Ministers consider the comments, suggestions and proposals of the MPs' conclusions, in accordance with its competence in this area. Stenograms and written materials regarding this agenda item, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, will deliver the Council of Ministers of BiH. Come on, if there's one, we'll put that in. I thought this was acceptable, that no one...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4170	Of course, I agree with the conclusion presented, but I think this and similar information should be done by the BiH Council of Ministers or the Service in coordination with 146 entity governments and entity services, so that we do not enter into discussions here that simply lead to economic and political conflicts. There is no reason why the BiH Council of Ministers or the service of the BiH Council of Ministers should not be involved when doing this information in coordination with the entity governments, and all the information we receive, so that we do not have a secret reserve of the entity government, please let the dialogue last for 5, 10, 15 days until the conclusion is reached. There are even things that don't have to be agreed on at the entity level that we can discuss, in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4171	Ambassador, your discussion has become an integral part of this conclusion that I have suggested, only that it is still spoken in the stenogram, it has been incorporated and it is quite fine. Is there any need to read more? There isn't. How many are there? - 29. I ask the MPs who is in favour of adopting the conclusion that I read about this item on the agenda? - Unanimity. Thank you very much. I find that the information, i.e. the conclusion on the 7th item of the agenda, is unanimously accepted. Thank you very much. That concludes the 7th point of the agenda. We're going to the 8th point. Ad.8. Proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat I would like to make some preliminary remarks. We, like the Kolegijum who also proposed the Decision, received several suggestions and suggestions from the OHR office, and the PAR project and we accepted all suggestions and suggestions. They refer to the following: 1. That the Home Secretary is also elected by the College of Homes, and that the Secretary of Joint Services is elected by both colleges together. 2. In order to make better professionalising work at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the working committee's secretaries do not have the status of officials, but rather the status of professional people to carry out tasks for a particular commission. Everything else remains as suggested. Here's a fellow Genjac to read this amendment and explain.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4172	Fellow Members of Parliament, honored guests, you have witnessed that this proposal of the Secretariat has been in the process for a long time, and a working group has been formed which has worked on this project, that we have had the support of the representatives of the PAR programme, Mr Santolala, that OHR representatives have been involved and have given their suggestions, and I think that, after all this, after all these activities and discussions that have been conducted here and on committees, there has been one proposal that can be a solid basis for adoption. In the last phase of the creation of the Secretariat's proposal, we had one different view of the issue of the election of the Home Secretary, or the Joint Service, and we had several consultations and we also had proposals, suggestions, suggestions, in front of the OHR Office and, of course, in front of the PAR project. 147 At the College, we have considered these suggestions and our proposal is that, in relation to the original text that you have received, and I think you have received this amendment in writing, which I have signed, in order to be absolutely clear and precise, this procedure, I propose an amendment that reads about as follows. Paragraph 5 of point 4 is amended and it would read: The corresponding college of the home appoints a secretary at home. The College of the House of Representatives and the College of the House of Peoples are jointly appointed as Secretary of the Joint Service. Decisions on those appointments shall be taken by consensus of all members. If no agreement is reached within 15 days of the date of the appointment at the meeting of the College, the decision to appoint a secretary shall be taken by the appropriate homes on a proposal from the competent committees of the home. In relation to the original solution, only here is the matter of consensus on the College discussed on the consensus, (and responsible, in case no consensus is reached.) Home Secretary and Secretary of the Joint Service will be engaged on a professional basis. The mandate of the secretary of the House of Peoples and the secretary of the House of Representatives is equal to the mandate of the appropriate home and their re-election is possible. The secretary's term of office of the Joint Service is equal to the duration of both homes' term of office and its re-election is possible. The secretaries of the commission and other executive workers will be engaged on a professional basis. The Secretary-General shall appoint an appropriate college at home. The head of the Information and Documentation Service and the head of the General Service shall appoint a college of both at home, jointly on a proposal from the College of the Secretariat. Managers may be removed if they do not carry out their professional duties adequately after professional assessment of their duties and in accordance with the Internal Organisation and the Law. Here, mainly, is an important suggestion from OHR representatives and representatives of the PAR project, in terms of the protection of professionalism on these duties and in terms of the possibility that, if, however, professionally not responding to the requirements, there may be a change. So re-election is possible and that implies that the principle of professionalism is being met. It is an amendment that we are in the College, after these consultations, and he, since the proposal of the College, could also be considered an integral part of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4173	Ambassador, why don't you come out and see what the problem is?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4174	In what we've got, he writes a text that I agree with, and what Mr. Genjac reads is coming out, and I don't agree with that. Because what I disagree with is what I didn't agree with at first. This is what it says here. 148th College of the House of Nations is appointed secretary of this house. The College of the House of Representatives shall appoint a secretary of this House. The Joint College shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Joint Service. These secretaries will be hired on a professional basis. The mandate of the secretary of the House of Peoples and the secretary of the House of Representatives is equal to the mandate of the appropriate home and their re-election is possible. The term of office of the Secretary of the Joint Service shall be equal to the full duration of the term of office of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and shall be possible. This is all okay. But now if we go back, if we don't reach a consensus, so we appoint, given the government's consolidation, how it works here, that's the initial problem, and the goal is to break out that the Representative Council appoints any of these professionals, who are professional. So, Mr. Genjac, what you've read, and what we've got is different than the sky and the earth, and I don't know if it's consistent with the College. If it's settled, then please explain it to me, because you're immediately starting to assume that you won't reach consensus. In that sense, I think two different proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4175	I'm going as chairman now to speak. Gentlemen, there is one real circumstance. Whether she is realistic or unrealistic about it, but there is, since the Kolegijum makes all decisions by consensus, and not by revote, the question arises whether we, like the Kolegijum, because one of us likes it, can block the choice. You find some mechanism to keep us from blocking the choice. This can go on forever so the three of us can say, here, one of the three of us won't reach agreement and status quo. We don't have a secretary at home. Nobody cares about that. If you're listening, we can talk to ourselves, we'll do a session of the College, so we'll talk like a College, if you don't listen to us, but there's an objective need to find a way, maybe this isn't the best and we don't argue, but to find a way to, not change the way to decide the Kolegijum, because it's impossible. Not changing that. How to do that. We didn't know better, and that doesn't mean you have to accept it. If you have a better solution, we are here to agree and I ask all those who disagree with this approach to do without criticism, but in order to help, come out and say what they want. Here, I'm opening a debate. We've heard the explanation of the Kolegijum, we've heard what's the issue, go ahead and say it. We've been consulting now. You mostly know where the problem is. The problem is we don't block the choice, nothing else. We agreed on everything, only we can't promise you that we'll agree, because then that would be, we didn't say we wouldn't, but we can't promise. Please, with a concrete proposal, suggest and no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4176	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a model that hasn't been seen anywhere. The model that's proposed nowhere has been seen so far. I think if we chose responsible people, and I guess we did, in the College, and if we said these were professional people and professionals, that they weren't political faces, now the thing is whether they were political or not, then someone thought a little bit they were, they weren't. If they are professional people, there is no reason not to reach an agreement in the framework of the College in that section of expertise. If they're political faces, you're returning the political decision here, and I'm against it, because we're never going to get to the 149 level that professional people are doing their part of the job. I'm against it that if we don't reach an agreement, it goes again.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4177	Thank you very much. Here, let me help you, the College will delete this section if we don't achieve consent. Here, no problem, to save.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4178	We have been involved in this resolution since the beginning of the SDP, so to speak, the questions and last time has not been made clear about OHR's proposals and the people of the PAR programme. I think you've found a good solution and I would disagree with my colleague Nikola. You know best how you work, I think this precaution is necessary for you. We must have chosen people and I would support you in that. Try to reach a consensus, but if he's not there, then you know who chose the chairman and who he can cut. I don't think we've given these people any other meaning, but we've simply solved the problem and I think it's a good idea for you, and we would support it from the SDP, until we have such a strong relationship that it's certain that by consensus we can achieve a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4179	Thank you very much, but if the promoter is okay with this, what would you do now, we've agreed, what's there?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4180	I was just about to suggest that you, as a promoter, give the final text and vote on it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4181	We've already given it up with this correction. So, with correction, do we accept this correction request by Ambassador Špirić? How many are present — 29. - Who's for the proposal entirely embedded in that motion decision? - Unanimity. Thank you very much. I find that the draft decision, the proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, was unanimously adopted. Suggestion. That's how we got the sekretarijat. I congratulate you on understanding and I think we've taken a good step forward in further our better work. I'm closing the 8th point of the agenda. We're going to the 9th point. 150 Ad.9. Draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Dear gentlemen, you have received, I hope, the final text, but today I have also received a proposal for some new proposals to be incorporated, according to Mr Fernand, but I do not know if you have received it. Did you get this? Yes, it is. Since this is a draft, there's nothing wrong with us opening the debate today, we're discussing, we're proposing to install everything that we agree on today and see if we can put this draft in the process, get to the proposal. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point, but I have to tell you that we need to come forward today about a series of alternative solutions. There shouldn't be something going on today, and there's alternatives, something like that can't get into the proposal. In your discussions, please focus on this goal. I am opening a debate on the 9th agenda, which is the draft of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4182	It's not easy to make comments like this on the draft, I'm afraid I'm not being intense, but I'll try to tell you exactly what members it's about. When we discussed the draft of this document, I made one proposal, which is to form a commission that would deal with monitoring gender equality and improving women's positions in BiH. After that proposal, I also sent it to Mr. Banjac in writing, but I see that the task force that prepared this draft Rules of Procedure did not respect my proposal. Since we are still working on the document, I will repeat the proposal and give a more detailed explanation, and after that I will give my suggestions to certain members of the Rules of Procedure. I propose that in the current member, this is my first proposal, I propose that a provision be put in place in the current article 34 on the formation of another working commission that would deal with improving women's status in BiH. The Commission's name could be "The Commission for the Monitoring, Realisation of Gender Equality and Improving of Women's Status in BiH". As suggested above, I suggest adding a new member of 41st), it will then change the numbers, likely to be the 42nd one to define the next part of the commission's work. The commission would consider issues related to gender equality, especially by improving women's status in BiH, encouraging activities in BiH institutions to implement the Beijing Declaration Action Platform with 4. World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995, in 12 critical spheres. It would then encourage and coordinate activities with entity parliaments to improve women's status and implement the Beijing Declaration Action Platform. The Commission would consider the proposed laws and other regulations of gender equality and the prevention of discrimination against women, consider proposals for documents and reports from institutions relating to gender equality, consider preparations for participation of BiH delegations at international meetings, when considering these issues, I mean the UN, the Stability Pact and other bodies, and consider other issues related to the achievement of gender equality. 151 My explanation of this proposal is as follows: By compulsory application of the rules of the Interim Election Commission in the last general elections, women are in a much larger number than they have been represented so far, both in the cantonal and entity parliaments, and in the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It means that we women now have a much greater opportunity to individually influence through legislation the achievement of gender equality and the improvement of our status, but the path of gender equality means the division of power and, of course, responsibility. Although women are present today in parliaments at all levels, participation of women in executive bodies is inadmissible little. It is enough to look at the overall composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as the gender structure in the leadership posts set by the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and this parliament. The illustrations work, although 31% of women are present in this House, no permanent working committee is chaired by women. It seems that you, our colleagues, don't think we could run Parliament's working bodies as well as you. At BiH level, and neither in entities nor in legislation nor in the executive government, there is no working body or body that would organise and continuously address gender issues and improve women's positions, as is the case in some other countries' parliaments, e.g. In Slovenia, there is a special governmental office for achieving gender equality. Also, there is still no organised approach in BiH, nor is a strategy for the implementation of the Beijing World Women's Conference Platform, and we know that BiH is one of the 189 signatories of this declaration and I assume it will be part of a special session of the UN General Assembly that was scheduled in June 2000 in New York, which should consider a report by our Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Beijing Declaration Platform. I must say that at a recent meeting of the Working Group on Gender Equality, which operates in the First Working Table of the Stability Pact, BiH did not have its appointed representative, although the working group held a session in Sarajevo. However, even when we appoint a representative, the question arises which knowledge and attitudes will be able to come forward if these gender equality issues are not organised and initiated through the activities of executive and legislative bodies. I therefore believe that, in our terms and conditions, under the terms of the powers laid down in the Constitution, a permanent parliamentary commission would be a desirable and appropriate working body that would monitor the state and movement and encourage the activities of other competent authorities and bodies, both at the level of BiH and in entities, and would also give opinions from the point of view of gender equality on the laws and other regulations adopted by Parliament. The constitutional basis for this proposal is next. In point 5, Article 3. The BiH Constitution, under additional powers, states "that BiH will take over the responsibilities in the things needed to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence" and I stress this "and the international subjectivity of BiH in line with the division of competence among BiH institutions". Since BiH, as a UN member state, has also accepted that it is the signator of the said Beijing Declaration and other UN documents relating to gender equality, I believe there is a constitutional basis for it to perform this function, so that at the level of BiH one working body in Parliament can be formed. That would be about my proposal to this Rules of Procedure, what isn't in the Rules of Procedure. Now I'd like to make some suggestions on the draft Rules of Procedure, on what was proposed in the Draft. I think that, as article 1, the earlier proposal from Prednart, which 152 reads: "The House of Representatives should be organised and done according to the Constitution of BiH, the law and the provisions of this Rules of Procedure". Secondly, if Article 2 here initially says "after the interim chairman reads the role", I would replace this role: "after the interim chairman reads the rights and obligations of the MPs, MPs will assume duty by giving the next solemn statement", that we do nothing in Parliament, but that these are our rights and obligations. In Article 4a and in relation to this and in Article 14, in order not to speak to Article 14, it is necessary to amend, in my view, this formulation, so that the organisation of Members' clubs is a right rather than a obligation. Here's how it's set. It's an obligation. In Article 6, I suggest that the second sentence of point 1 of Article 6. "it will participate in their work," I propose an add-on "and engage in finding a solution and making decisions to ensure the exercise of constitutional competences of BiH institutions, as well as effective coordination of activities, the achievement of the competence of the BiH state and entity" and then proceed further, "and fulfil the tasks they or they entrust to it". In Article 10, this was a little vaguely given to the MPs. It is not clear enough, who of the MPs will have the right to pay, all MPs, as stated in paragraph 1, at least that's how I interpret it, or only those who have the status of permanent staff, as stated in paragraph 2, so these two positions should be agreed. I draw attention to the fact that Article 41, which discusses the tasks of the Commission for Administrative Affairs, provides that the MP is entitled to pay and compensation. We've called it a cochlean so far, and we're not talking about it here, so we should agree to Article 10 and Article 41, and determine whether it remains the right to compensation, or that flat-rate so far, and the right to pay, because it's not said here and to whom the right to pay is concerned, of course. I think I'm clear about this article 10 because it's unclear. In Article 17, I already said for 14, it refers to the entire 14th member in relation to Article 4. In Article 17, I propose to delete the alternative, and to regulate, in Article 17, the way in which the chairman and vice-president are elected, and in the same way, possibly, to elect MPs who would replace them when the need arises. So I'm not in favour of an alternative, but to supplement here, it's easy to formulate. In Article 20, I propose that the Commission be included in the College in an extended form, as we will make them more responsible for preparing the sessions at home. They are not included here and I think our working bodies should have greater responsibility, so those who lead them to be involved in these broader agreements in the extended form of the chairmanship. In Article 30, I am in favour of erasing the alternative, which means that it remains to be decided by the Commission through a simple majority, and in Article 34, in addition to the proposal for another commission, I propose that Article 2 be deleted because this position makes it impossible for the parties, i.e. the clubs of MPs who have a smaller number of MPs, to participate equally in the preparation of sessions at home, so if we were to deny the right to attend only two 153 working bodies, then we would not allow them to take part in more questions in the preparation of their homes. In Article 38, I have amendments to the Finance and Budgetary Affairs Commission, under paragraph f), I propose that what is written be deleted, as it is said that BiH financing, bh, will be deleted. The institution, through taxation, the accumulation of debt or other funds, I don't understand some things, and I know that we didn't foresee by the Constitution that we're going to tax finance, so I suggest that the financing of BiH institutions, in accordance with the Constitution, in the indent, adoption of decisions on the accumulation of debt, which I'm really, I'm afraid is not the wrong translation, I don't understand what it is, I think they should be replaced by the words that they will adopt decisions on debt reprogramming and so forth. In Article 41, I propose to supplement this responsibility of the Administrative Commission, to add to the indent that this committee will monitor the functioning of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat and propose to Parliament the necessary changes. We haven't given any committee jurisdiction, and here, it's just proof that what we've adopted today is that at several sessions the Administrative Commission has been discussing the organisation of the Secretariat, this has been dropped. In Article 57, I advocate that the adoption of the minutes be regulated so that the minutes are submitted for approval, as a general rule, at the next session, and in exceptional cases at the next session. It shouldn't be this long, especially if we team up with the sekretarijat in the right way to prepare the minutes, and hopefully we will. I have another proposal in Article 102, where only BiH institutions are mentioned, says the BiH Presidency, at the recommendation of the BiH Council of Ministers, brings Budget, and then I ask what is wrong with the foreign debt. It has been an integral part of the budget so far, so it should be defined precisely and I personally think that this 15th November deadline for the adoption of the Budget is unrealistic, that we should move that deadline by at least 15 days, and maybe in a month. So, let's bring it by the end of the year or, if you want, by December 15th, it's about bringing Budget. In Article 104, I don't understand some of the questions that are mentioned here. It is said that the BiH presidency, as recommended by the BiH Council of Ministers, will submit a draft law on the general account of BiH institutions. I know there is a constitutional obligation, one constitutional obligation of the BiH Council of Ministers to submit a report on the expenditures of BiH and we should not change that obligation, and another is the constitutional obligation of the BiH presidency to report on the expenditures of the BiH presidency. Look at these members of the Constitution. So Article 5, point 3 and point 4, and that should be harmonised by this Article 104, and if this applies to the Budget Final Account Act, then I think it should be written precisely. There is a logic that if the BiH Presidency proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of Budget, with the recommendation of the BiH Council of Ministers, then to propose the final account of the Budget, but then this member should be written in such a way as to implement the constitutional obligation on the reports, and this is the act of the final account. My suggestion would be that in the second point of view of this point, where it says that the figures contained in the Bill's proposal are not subject to amendments, that the amendment should be made, except in the section relating to the direction of any surplus revenue over expenditure, because the final account gives an overview of what is done, and then remains, if there is an excess income over expenditure, its orientation. I think the BiH Parliamentary Assembly could participate in the part and have the right to 154 participate in directing the part and discussing that part of the figure. In my practice, when the Budget Final Account was adopted, it could always have been the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, so, here, that would have been my suggestion. I propose that in Section 8, where amendments to the Constitution are discussed, the procedure with an initiative to amend the BiH Constitution and secondly, I propose that the chapter should also stand before the chapter of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation, in which it should be regulated, because it is not regulated anywhere, I mean these delegations in international institutions, the regulation of the choice of delegations, the chairman's, the rights and obligations of the chairman and members, the establishment of a platform for participation in the work of the bodies in which delegations have been elected and the relationship of delegations to Parliament. I have not been able to find that it is regulated somewhere and in Article 142, I suggest that the word “and the letter” be added in point 2, so MPs will make a written statement in which language and letter they want to receive materials from the paragraph of this article. I'm sorry this is intense, but it wasn't even possible when we were discussing the draft.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4183	I ask you, gentlemen, that we are talking about a global approach to which matter should be properly spoken. As for the members themselves, we will have the opportunity to talk about it when we have a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4184	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and guests, it is no doubt that the task force working on this Rules of Procedure has made an effort to offer us this text, which is, in fact, one progress in relation to the Rules of Procedure that we have had so far, which contains very brief provisions on the work of this PSBiH House of Representatives and which is really insufficient for our proper work. That former Rules of Procedure was, in fact, a stumbling block in our work. We often had no regulated questions, and we had to deal with them through conclusions. From my point of view, what is significant about this Rules of Procedure is that it has introduced some new principles of parliamentary democracy that are present in the countries of Western Europe, which we have not yet had. However, I have one objection concerning Article 30. Rules of Procedure on work on decision-making in the PSBiH House of Representatives committees. The Commission is working bodies and an alternative that states that decisions in committees are made in the same way as in Parliament's House of Representatives, I do not think it is based on any law, nor on the Constitution of BiH, because I am the principle of such decision-making in the House of Representatives, which is very complicated for the meetings of Parliament itself, I do not think that it should be transferred to the working bodies and I think that decisions should be made by majority vote by those present at the working bodies' meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4185	I've got a replica on this. Please, ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, the MPs, I was just about to say that in the final text that will be put into the proposal, take care of a few things, including that of Mrs. Čolo, which is, when the commission makes a decision, and not an opinion, 155 accounts must be taken to decide as well as in Parliament, because everything else would be a majorisation procedure for the majority of the minority and it is impossible to accept. When it comes to the Commission's opinion, it can be accepted that this approach is different, that it is decided by a majority. We have a Commission that decides on certain matters, which is the Administrative Commission, without declaring a home, if we have given it these powers, then we need to install this correction that will protect any kind of abuse of majorisation or some kind of imposition of other people's opinion. Secondly, I think one mistake has been made here, I hope by accident, which is that the president and the president have been identified, and these two functions are not the same. The chairman is one of the equals, of the three equals with the difference only in leading the session and nothing else. I think it should be installed in all the points where the opposite is stated, and even the principle of decision-making in the College, where it is said, if the Kolegijum does not agree, then the chairman makes a decision. There are such members. I don't think there's any breach to the principle of the Kolegijum's work that stands and that there's no majority in the College. We need to agree and bring our views to a consensus, and we've done it so far, and that's how it should be done. When it comes to the change of the Constitution, I think, too, that I should, I will not talk about the members because I said, I will have an objection to say my position on the amendments to the proposal. But when it comes to changing the Constitution, it is unacceptable that every MP does so. I think it would be good for us to say that every Parliament club has the right to do so, because the MP club is something else, and in the end, I agree with the opinion of the MPs, Ms. Muminagić, who says that entering the club is a free commitment, wish or will, so I do not accept this provision that says "those MPs who have not joined any club are automatically becoming members of an independent club," so there is no independent club. As soon as someone's at the club, he's addicted. Therefore, the possibility must be left that there is a man who says that he will not be in any club, that he is an independent MP and should be left with such an opportunity. The composition of the commission. The composition of the committee, gentlemen, must remain as it has been so far, and that is one in two, the RS and the Federation of BiH, because it guarantees us both the Dayton Peace Agreement and the Constitution of BiH and it should not be violated in any way, because it could create misunderstandings, and I ask that it be taken into account. These are some, I could now tell you what I said and demonstrate by reading members, however, it would be a waste of time. You'll find it yourself if you're interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4186	I want to replicate. Chairman, I understand your point of view that decisions in committees should be made by consensus because at this point, I suppose it suits you. However, I do not think that opinion is justified, there is no legal basis for decisions being made in committees in the same way as in the PSBiH House of Representatives. It means that we are counting the votes of members of the RS commission and members of the Federation of BiH commission. We in the current Rules of Procedure, in Article 5, point 5, we have a decision in committees. Decisions are made by a majority of the votes of those present. We are now taking us back there somewhere that we are introducing 156 that principle which is in our Constitution, which exists for a decision in the PSBiH House of Representatives and which, of course, is contained in the Constitution and the PSBiH House of Representatives must decide so, but this does not mean that, analoguely to this principle by which it is decided in the PSBiH House of Representatives, such a principle must be introduced into the work of committees.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4187	Does that mean he doesn't have to?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4188	Where does it say he has to? And we have in our Rules of Procedure now states that decisions in committees are made, as I said most of the votes of those present, are not separated, as you said, by opinions and decisions. Each commission decides what it is, whether it's an opinion or something else, it's a commission decision and we make decisions as prescribed now, and I think it's just the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4189	Thank you. I have to act, since I'm not in agreement that the honourable Member has the right to say that I think as she says, but I guess I can say how I think and, of course, that she says the same way she does, and I understand that, and it's democratic, I don't mind her attitude. But the fact is one, Your Honor, that I want to prevent any possibility of majorisation because the Constitution would not vote as it says that it did not want to prevent majorisation, and I don't mind that we accept your position by taking the right of committees to make final decisions at all. Because, look, we need to understand once, if the final decision is made by a commission, please, then the possibility of majorisation is quite open, it automatically prevents the way Parliament is voted. Whose committees are these, I'm asking you? And Parliament. Who chooses them? And Parliament. How does he choose? In the way that the vote is scheduled, it is logical that they have other rights than the Parliament that chose them, but there is no such logic anywhere in the world. Opinions are opinions, decisions are decisions. I give the right of opinion to everyone, and no one should be forbidden to think, but when it's decided, when it has the right weight, when it has the implementing power, dear gentlemen, don't try on a small door like that to plant on each other some things that none of us would want, if it were in the minority, so that's basic. I don't mind accepting your position, but on the condition that we take the right of committees to decide, they make final decisions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4190	What commission makes the decision?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4191	Administrative commission, well, don't, except. I just said committees that don't have decisions, so then this doesn't apply to them, what I'm saying, Alma. There's no problem. Me and you, we think the same thing. We'll define when we get to the proposal. I don't mind defining. Here you go, Ibro, you have a replica. 157
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4192	I will take as much time as she had the chance to speak to Mrs. Suada Muminagić, as it is a general debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4193	Is this a replica or is it...?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4194	I didn't define my attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4195	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4196	Here, for the replica, first, if you will. I think you're very nervous unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4197	Don't worry about my anxiety.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4198	First of all, I wish you wouldn't let anyone think or think, and I'd ask you to get rid of that burden. Second, I'd like to say a few things about your move. You said, it is now a replica, that wherever there is a notion of a president that it should be replaced by a chairman in a spirit of need that, in principle, you spoke and cited several examples, and I can repeat them without wasting time. In principle, I would like to say that it would be very convenient and good, finally, that the Parliamentary House of BiH will be given to the president and that is an essential observation. As for the chairman, college and consensus and the way this was done here, I think it's quite paradoxical compared to the character of the PSBiH House of Representatives, according to the BiH Constitution. It's a civil council. I'm undermining it one more time. The Council is elected on the basis of the general right of citizens to vote for citizens who have run either independently or on behalf of certain political parties. Therefore, at the head of such a council, I understand that the President of the Civil Council, the President of the PSBiH House of Representatives, with powers that mean respect for all possible types of equality that can, of course, be established in any other instrument called the Rules of Procedure, is the first remark. The second remark also denies the character and structure of the PSBiH House of Representatives, You have advocated, as chairman, which I understand because if you were president not 158 you could say it even as an MP, because you denied yourself the right as an MP, and the speaker, you accepted it right and held it well, that every MP has the right to propose amendments to the Constitution. The fundamental right of MPs, including citizens and groups of citizens, is to move things that are of general importance. The purpose of the policy and the purpose of the Parliamentary Council, the meaning of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, is that the mandate is obtained by wanting to manage society in general well, by proposing laws, by amending the law, by amending the Constitution, which is one elemental thing. It is totally unacceptable for the MP to dispute the right to exercise the right to amend the Constitution, which could instrumentate a position in one of the Rules of Procedure tomorrow. You said it could only have the right to a club of representatives, etc., and I don't think it has any basis at all. It is about the fundamental principles of the work of MPs in the PSBiH House of Representatives, that is the second observation to your statement. The third remark that has been drawn from your approach to this home and from the accession, otherwise, to the PSBiH House of Representatives, which is indisputably contrary to the character of this home and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which has two homes, the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, in Article 3. Rules of Procedure, Chapter 1 of the establishment of a home. Article 3 reads: “After the MPs make statements, the House will be elected by one Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat president, the first vice-president and second vice-president of the presidency, on a proposal from at least three MPs. ” This member fundamentally denies your commitment to any kind of fight against majorisation because in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, one can either run independently, also, Jevrej, Rom or any other nationality, a man and he automatically disqualifies this House from the Constitution and his civic position. That is why I would like to say that, in the spirit of your enigma, against any kind of majorisation of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, over all minorities others, over the citizens of BiH and any other kind of relationship I am talking about, takes care of this fact as well. In this home should be elected to a college of people who come as men who have won, as coalitions, as clubs, normally, and they nominate, in every democratic society, the chairman of the House. There is no random sample of Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat in this home. This is not the House of Peoples, nor can the Parliamentary House of BiH be built on that principle. A fundamental, wrong approach in this Article 3 is embedded in the mechanisms of our relations, speaking, in fact, of a kind of majorization and sub-premation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4199	The time for your replica is up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4200	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Speaker, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4201	I just want to, since you mentioned me a few times, Your Honor, just for a little while. It is clear to me your wish and it is clear to the people Your wish and desire of the party you belong to, I have nothing against your wishes. How feasible they will be, on that account. I don't dispute your right to an opinion, but I'm glad you said what you think is so nice, there's no need for interpretation. Thank you very much. 159
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4202	First of all, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you not to interpret my wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4203	I didn't interpret it at all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4204	The civil democratic party BiH has only one fundamental principle, which is to build and influence the building of what is called civil society and respect, above all, the protection of all types of minorities in one society, regardless of whether it is full, what Mrs Muminagić was talking about, I support it, later in the discussion I will do so, for her new commission, which she proposes, and also in political terms. It is unacceptable to install a mechanism in this way in the Rules of Procedure that does not correspond to the character of this home and, on the other hand, has no other thought, but the fact that this is a home that is chosen directly from the citizens of BiH and in which all BiH citizens have the same right to access, especially those chosen in all public functions. If this house won't sanction it properly, I don't know who else will.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4205	Thank you very much. Is there a replica? Replica, please. Ambassador Mrs. Perkanović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4206	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament, is the guest, since BiH is the state of three peoples, most realistically, that is how a BiH Parliament is formed. To talk about citizens and the civil state here, I don't think it's right at all, and it's not in line with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4207	Replica Rakić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4208	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that people promote what they think, and I also realize that the projects they create and that they want to accomplish, that's what they want to publicly expose and fight for. But I don't understand, and today we're discussing a matter called the Rules of Procedure of this House. We have the Constitution of BiH, and this is a replica of Mr Spahić, where he clearly writes in the procedure, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Article 4 of the procedure, each home will adopt its own rules of procedure, select among its members of one Srbin, one Bošnjak, one Hrvat for the chairman and vice-president, with him treating the presidency among these three persons. I didn't come out here to warn anyone about the Constitution. I simply went out 160 to try to be rational, to install into this Rules of Procedure what was regulated by the Constitution. When we change the Constitution, here you go, gentlemen, you make speeches, you offer new projects, you offer under the civil policy firm whatever you want, right now it's possible and let's turn around and discuss it like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4209	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members, I also assumed, in fact, that today's discussions would be principled, so in that sense, I had no intention of coming forward, at least on this agenda point. However, my replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed colleague Čolo, i.e., that is my one point of principle which I will surely, when it comes to the proposal of this Rules of Procedure, declare to him by amendment. In fact, the fact is that in the previous work of individual committees, at least when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, we were, we were, and we're really often in an absurd position. A position that, in my deep opinion, is absolutely unequal and undemocratic, even in a certain way, anti-constitutional. When I say so, then, as a fresh example, I will just specify how the Constitutional Commission has pleaded here, on grounds of foundation, or whether there are grounds in the law for the adoption of the Border Service Act or not. Unfortunately, the whole time of the vote was so that the members of the RS commission were against that position or pointed to Articles 3, 4 and 5, arguing that it was a legal basis, possibly for the adoption of the Law on Border Police, unlike the other members of the Commission and, unfortunately, it was here with the view that there was a basis in this sense, just as it is now indicated in the preamble to the imposed Border Police Act. I believe that such a way of working is absolutely no use to anyone. In this context, I will advocate that this Article 30 in the proposal of the Rules of Procedure of the PSBiH House of Representatives will absolutely be established in a way that individual commissions will, therefore, only by consensus bring their opinions to the Council of Representatives. However, I will certainly do so through the amendment. Just one more thing, in just one sentence and about these initiatives, I would absolutely agree with MP Rakić, however, I must remind myself that really in Article 6. The BiH Constitution, point 3rd, indent (a), is indicated that each MP has an initiative and now to amend the Constitution, the truth, but only in the context of one quarter of the MPs in the Representative Council, or, as the Constitution here literally says, or one quarter of any legislative council of any entity. Therefore, I would ask that MPs, before they report for the discussion, however, to take a closer look at these provisions of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4210	I, I would like to rephrase to Mr Deretić, because in the first session of Parliament, as a member of the Verification Commission in which Mr Deretić participated, was voted, because the Rules of Procedure on the work of the PSBiH House in this way prescribed in which way, in fact, they are being adopted in committees, so all the members of the Commission were for the verification of the mandate, you know, I would not return to the past, but as an MP, I had the right to single out my opinion and to set out my position and to think that such a decision should be kept in committees, that every one of the members of the commission who disagreed with the majority's position could single out my position in this House. Introducing committees to decide how 161 decides at the PSBiH House of Representatives, I think it is further complicated work within Parliament's working bodies. Each of the members of the committee who disagrees with the majority's opinion has the right here for parlament to express its individual opinion and the matter is Parliament's way of accepting this opinion and whether it will agree with the opinion of the majority or its individual opinion. I do not think that this reason for you to say that you were overvoted at the session of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission is sufficient reason to transfer the decision-making process from Parliament to the working-body sessions, because I was once the victim of that one vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4211	Unfortunately, here, now I have to say what I'm not, because I'm afraid that way just to sharpen without need in this phase of discussion. In fact, every time I felt, in fact, too loud in the commission, and indeed in the way it was voted now when it came to the Constitutional Commission, it always brought us, therefore, members of the RS commission into the position that there had always been an opinion on certain issues where we were, the position of the Representative Council went, and the opinion was that the Constitutional Legal Commission had adopted a positive or negative opinion on a specific draft, a proposal, etc. Therefore, in order for such things not to happen, I am purely speaking for future work, I think it is quite correct then to point out and find a modus, but it is the other variant that I would not be so inclined to always point out, so, decadently, who is in front of each commission, or member of which committee voted in what way. I don't think you should go that far. I think it is quite correct when it comes to the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission, for example, to point out, on a specific issue, that the majority opinion has been reached, as provided for by the Constitution. When it comes to making decisions in the BiH presidency. Because in any other way, given the number of members of the RS commission, therefore, he is in any case twice as small as the Federation of BiH, because, unfortunately, so far, the position has been such that we have been revoted, and that did not mean that, indeed, the Commission's opinion on the law was established, or, later, proved, and I am now arguing. Here, first of all, I think of the Law on the Border Service, if it hadn't been for the opinion, and there was no resistance as it was raised here, there was no dispute in the Law, or in the Constitution of BiH, and that would not have happened, this was my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4212	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members, today we are discussing the Rules of Procedure on this work, our home and the draft. As far as I understand it, this material needs operationally to allow us to realize the BiH State Constitution. However, from these discussions that I have been listening to so far, it is evident, and I hope there is no need to explain to the arguments now, that there are some forces that want to adopt a Rules of Procedure that will be contrary to the BiH Constitution. The BiH Constitution is now, and right now it is as it is and I think we really need to respect it, whether we liked it or not. I'm responsibly saying that I don't like 100% either, but he's the result, unfortunately, of a very complicated way to get to the state and he's the way we have it. In this regard, I would like to say in principle that the Rules of Procedure must also reflect those solutions, and operationally, which was drawn in principle by the BiH Constitution. Here, with this in mind, 162 I would like to say that some members of the draft Rules of Procedure, and also some fellow MPs advocate, want to simplify the process of amending the BiH Constitution in this parliament, I would just like to add that they are forgetting that it is a two-point sword. What will happen, suppose if it happens, that one MP comes out here and says I'm starting an amendment to the Constitution in that BiH also gets a third entity, i.e. a Croatian entity in BiH. Some advocates of amending the Constitution here advocate that so the Constitution can be changed, and they forget that it can also be that the beating has another end. So I would really like the passion of changing the Constitution to be reduced here a little bit and more realistically thinking and discussing what we really have. Here, there was always a concrete discussion in Article 30. I've invested, so to speak, a proposal for this alternative, so I feel the need to say something about it. I am absolutely for this to have the way of decision-making and painting committees as it is decided at the PSBiH House of Representatives, perhaps it is only not enough to formulate "as well as at the PSBiH House of Representatives", perhaps it should be extended a little bit, because perhaps it should not go to a consensus when the commission brings its opinion, but should with such a report, the mandatory commission here to come out, to pass on that decision-making method. Here's a colleague, or fellow MP, who said it was a complicated way to decide. I fully agree, but it is complicated, but it is also protective, and I think the component of protecting a nation is much more important than whether it is complicated and ending the way I started and the Constitution of BiH is complicated, but it's complicated and the way we came to the state and that's our reality, and I really want us all to stick to that reality.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4213	Gentlemen Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I was just about to warn, after such a calm atmosphere and almost consensual decision-making by these two points, to warn the MPs that there are no representatives of the Council of Europe, when I see it now, you have seen for yourself that this is an unnecessary warning now. I'd just like to make a few remarks about this draft Rules of Procedure. At the point, i.e. Article 3, second position, I propose to amend and make the next replacement, this is where the question is regulated, if for one of the candidates, it means two or more candidates for the chairman or vice-president of Parliament, the same number of votes is given, then it is intended to draw out, that the cube decides who will be. I suggest we leave nothing at stake, but then repeat the round of voting and pass that candidate who also has the entity majority. I think it suits everyone. I believe at least. I propose that in Article 14, also point 2, MPs' club, instead of three, have at least four MPs. I think it will be much more serious, especially as the president and deputy club MPs are predicted, so if there are three, it turns out only one that doesn't have a function, and not just because of that, but I think there would be too many Members' clubs, if there are only three and I would warn of one more thing. In fact, Article 7 provides that each MP has the right, except to initiate an initiative to change, to make laws, decisions, etc., this also applies to the BiH Constitution. I don't think you should be reminded of the fact that the constitution doesn't change from calling to calling the congregation. To stop it for years. Our approach, how serious it would bring us, based on this, if we had a proposal for 163 amendments to the Constitution at each session. This best illustrates, here's a few facts. We now, in the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, have large proposals to change the Constitution. As far as last session, we discussed a law where the motionor, in the light of this law, says, quote: “The adoption of such a law would require the harmonisation of the Constitution with this law.” I ask you to take the Constitution very seriously and not ask for a change of constitution from session to session. That is why my proposal is that the initiative to launch the amendment of the Constitution will be valid only if it is supported by at least one third of the MPs from each entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4214	Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, rely on a few discussions and I will say what I think about the draft Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council. My colleague Alma Čolo invited me to, perhaps more in terms of questions, ask one thesis and then ask myself, she said, perhaps with the right "that she is the victim of voting in one commission", and no one is essentially talking about the real victim. We were at the time when the Commission decided that the 5-to-one verification, which I was also in, had verified the mandate of Mr Đedović, who did not come to his term today and lies, I suppose, in prison. Has this House ever asked what happened to his MP and have we ever wondered why a political option does not have its own letter in this House and why the OSCE, as appropriate other cases, has not responded or confirmed or given its mandate to an MP on the list. It is a much more complex political issue than whether someone is outvoted or not, and therefore, here are the questions, that, as MPs, as colleagues, we are asking what is the mandate of Đedović, whose mandate, here we have verified. It's a victim, or it's not a victim, I don't know, but we could talk about it. Perhaps this is the real question and what it means is, essentially, the decision of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Representative Council, regardless of how it was taken, and was then valid, which is not applicable. We've been silent for a year and two months because it's not about us individually, and because the ruling party in BiH is not responding to Mr. Đedović's political option, and no one wants to talk about it, that's the point, this is all the rest of the cover. Another thing, civil, national, etc., building relations within BiH. All this my friend, the honourable MP Mr. Ibro Spahić, would talk, drink water that the composition of the Coalition in which he is present at the head is not national. Now I get the impression that in that composition, only the engineer is a civil laugh. But, my dear Ibro, name me anyone within your coalition who is not Bošnjak, against which I absolutely have nothing. The story and such behaviour will not build a civil BiH, at least within the coalition where the Civil Democratic Party is. Except if you didn't think Ibro Spahić performed as Bošnjak once, and the second time Spahić Ibro as a Srbin, Hrvat and other minorities, it's not about minorities of Srbin and Hrvat, it's about minorities Ibro talked about. So it's some stories that have a whole other useful value. The introduction of the president, not the chairman, of the BiH Council of Ministers' office, the introduction of the BiH president, although I watched when Ibro talks, I thought Mr Silajdžić would begin to applaud. I was glad that a man was happy to have the opportunity to listen to his spokesman. 164 I am now going specifically to this proposal. There's a proposal that intrigued me about this draft that came along.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4215	Please hurry up.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4216	I'd ask you not to rush me like the others.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4217	The others didn't break time, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4218	I guess I didn't either. I don't speak for more than a minute. Maybe I'm saying things you won't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4219	No, no, we want to hear everything, we just have to treat everything the same.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4220	Let's talk about this proposal signed by Mr. Fernando Santola. Article 20. I agree that Article 20 should be defined in the sense that it is said that the enlarged College, therefore, the College in which we are, representatives of political parties and clubs of MPs, will seek to adopt its decisions by consensus, so they will try. If the effort to achieve such a consensus fails, the decisions will be adopted by the majority, which implies a consensus between the chairman and his deputies, because this prevents voting within the people, and most may be when we all debate, if it implies this consensus, because it is such an electoral principle. It is proposed that, unless consensus is reached, deputies of the chairman and chairman, through the majority, come to a decision, it is not a good way to develop BiH, to stabilise political and all other relations. That's exactly the road that's not good. It may be the majority within the framework, when we are in the Expansive College, if consensus is not reached, may be the majority, but the majority would have to contain a consensus of the chairman and his deputies. That's what Professor Fleischman was talking about. Branko Dokić, I think he's absolutely right, Article 9. I suggest that it reads: "The proposed amendments to the BiH Constitution will be adopted by home, including the two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs, ensuring that votes against the constitution do not include one third or more representatives from one entity, or implies a two-thirds majority of entities for." That's very important. The amendments to the BiH Constitution, in order not to often reach for changes to the Constitution, which is not good for BiH, must have the same fate as the Constitution, the adoption of the Constitution. As suggested here, it is enough for 18 MPs to change the Constitution. Two-thirds, of two-thirds present. It could happen that from 24, two-thirds is 18. 165 is not good. It is not good for the future of BiH, no matter how democratic it may seem to one, and it will be easier to change the constitution. The amendments to the Constitution must be those which will be accepted willingly by all and be carried out on the ground, without every time someone has to be struck in the ears unless they do so, that is, in that sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4221	Thank you very much, MP, you've extended a little bit. Sorry, Tokić, there's an MP, he wants a replica. poslanik Spahić wants a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4222	Mr. Chairman, given that several issues related to the first line I have spoken about with regard to your resignation have been raised here, and I note that this is the central point of today's debate, given that it is addressed by all, concerns Members 106, 107, 108 and 109, and refers to the position of MPs in relation to the law as well as the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, the House of People and each MP, that, in accordance with the Constitution of BiH and this Rules of Procedure, they may propose amendments to the BiH Constitution. Since this is a fundamental debate, and on the subject of the Draft, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the fundamental position of MPs in this House, as well as in every House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, has been discussed countless times. That right in some way to suspend, or fit it into clubs, groups, in the different positions you've been talking about here, I find it unacceptable. Essentially, I want to retain the fundamental right of the MPs to propose amendments, the BiH Constitution, and the right of MPs to propose legislation. It is clear that it is the basic function of the MPs and that it stems from its constitutional position. That's the first thing about that replica. When it comes to the content of this section concerning civil BiH, civil society, various concepts that offer different structures, I would really like to just draw attention to a fact where we have talked several times in the context, almost, I would say the obsessive emphasis on the majorisation problem in BiH and that one bogeyman who is constantly trying to stick to this regulation of relations in BiH, in civil society. It is, in fact, that every mention of Jevrej, roma or any other people or nationality, any other non-Serbs, Hrvat and Bošnjak, here causes unnecessary, from my point of view, a reaction, because it is, I underline, about the House of Representatives, about the Civilian Council, and I hope that it will not follow the replicas in a way that things come down to us returning to facts that are common knowledge, the protection of these rights we have constitutionally arranged very well in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the House of Peoples. Indisputable that many political parties have expressed these interests and that they have run with different candidates of different nationalities and in this home, which is quite good, but it is essential that emancipation is simply needed in both civil society and national affairs, which, very simply, can lead people, regardless of what nations they are, to a fully equal position to participate, to decide and to have the opportunity to lead such bodies. The debate now marginalised at the expense of some day-to-day policy options and that it interferes with interests does not have any meaning for a principled position in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Anyone elected as 166 MPs, as representative of a number of BiH citizens, has a specific policy option, has the right to access those functions, that is essential. That's the spirit and that's the essence of the BiH Constitution. When it comes to that, I would draw attention to the fact that this kind of emancipation, both national and civil, is something to come in the coming period. I guess that's when you wear good hats or bad hats. When you get used to good hats and wear them all the time, on different occasions, then you can make a good presentation so it's not right to keep putting that problem on the so-called. A transnational principle that suits all ideologies in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, especially, I would say, what is rocking, between the left and the right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4223	Here's the replica, what did you say with the hat or...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4224	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Mr Spahić a question. How many roma, Jevrej, and others are there in our congregation?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4225	Dear lady, that is the whole problem that I am convinced of, I am, we need to talk openly, finally, to emancipate ourselves national and civil, which I would say, and I have to tell you quite something precise. As for the information we received from the foreign ministry gentlemen, I note that all political parties, different political options, right, left, centrally organized, have tried to find space and places to hire and Jevrej, for example. in the diplomatic service. I also noticed that, in this sense, they represent BiH equally, therefore, and this BiH Parliament. On the other hand, ma'am, I assure you that citizens and Jevrej and Rom and other nations other than Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat went out to vote in these elections and gave you a vote, and in your actions, as well as my, any MPs here, must be a responsibility to all BiH citizens, regardless of which are national, religious or political commitment, full. Also, those marginal layers of society you just don't see, so I'd like to draw your attention to the following. Do not, undermining, undermine the day-to-day policy, as it is usually done in political games, constantly stressing that you have only Srbin, or only Bošnjak or Hrvat, or all Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak present in your body, but make sure that you have been voted by the citizens of BiH, for everyone here, they have established this council. Responsibility to them implies responsibility equally to the Jevreje, as well as Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and Rom. I ask you to express our dissatisfaction with this matter, which we did not ensure, say, in the entity parliaments, in the homeland of the people... In the Federation of BiH, we only have Bosniaks, Croatians and others, although we have Srbin and Jews there, etc. under others, without having a home to the people in the RS at all, we have neither Bošnjak nor Srbin nor Jews, etc. In the end, let me say something that's the essence of what's going on at home. 167
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4226	Sir, direct your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4227	You asked how many Jevrej there are here. I answer to you precisely and Roma. There are as many Jevrej and Rom represented here as they live as citizens in BiH, and in the world, in the diaspora, who also gave a voice for this home and for you and for all these people to answer decisively for what their destiny is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4228	Thank you so much for such an exhaustive discussion. Don't rephrase it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4229	Everything you've said, speaking to me, has come to light in the last 13 months of your extensive hollow story, sir, behind this pay phone. These all citizens you stand for have not been given any of this yet, do not get up and replicate again, cross short words and great deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4230	My kolega Spahić, according to your recommendations, I suggest you put your party on your number one list, for example, the name of Jakov Danon, not Ibro Spahić, and then you will show that you really want to do what you talk about for daily-political purposes and bother us, and secondly, you have accused all the institutions in RS of not having and representing anyone but Srbin, I am responsible for your sentence, however many of them live there, all of them are represented by our names on the lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4231	You didn't ask for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4232	I'm looking for a replica because I'm mentioned by name and last name, and that's the Rules of Procedure still in force.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4233	You have to ask, you can at least raise my hand.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4234	Mr. Banjac, I'm looking for a word based on the Rules of Procedure. First, I was talking about the RS and the Federation of BiH, the homeland of the people. Therefore, I would ask that you use a stenogram, not a sense of what I was saying. 168 Second, when it comes to the presence of people in the Civil Democratic Party of BiH, that
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4235	That's not the point. It's not the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4236	Of course it is. It is on the agenda, in essence, my dear chairman, who you always need to define your position precisely, compared to the BiH Constitution, on the agenda is the problem of civil society in BiH. The lady is...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4237	A Rules of Procedure which means serving MPs in accordance with the democratic rules of the BiH Constitution and what we are here for, it is on the agenda. It is on the agenda, the question arises whether this is a pig or a picture just or just like the structure of the House of Peoples, which is so in BiH, or whether it is a House of Representatives, which regulates relations by the nature and character of its council. Since I am convinced that we cannot escape the fact that this is a House of Representatives, not the House of Peoples, please, I will tell you quite precisely, that your invitation to me to stop speaking about civil and civil society in BiH, and only to continue talking about a kind of nailed, status quo society that cannot move beyond your vision is actually the fundamental problem of the whole Bosnian Herzegovina society. I thank you for the very explicit expression of what you said you were representing, and I am pleased that you, dear ladies, have addressed this matter, given that for the first time I heard a very precise political attitude from you and, of course, I didn't mean you when I was talking about hats, really.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4238	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I would say only a few views relating to the Rules of Procedure, before I would like to point out that I do not think it is productive today that in this parliamentary debate, the need for BiH to be affirmed as a state of three equal peoples and all its citizens should be followed by the preamble of the BiH Constitution. In this context, I believe that, in the making of this Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to count on the fact that we are working on the Rules of Procedure for Future Times and not to be burdened with our present, current presence in this assembly of the PSBiH House of Representatives and that we fully count on new people coming with ideas and a more responsible approach to resolving all those issues that stand before BiH. Three things I think. I will say in principle, what is necessary to affirm in defining the Rules of Procedure's proposal, welcoming this draft as a good basis for making the Rules of Procedure of the PSBiH House of Representatives, I believe that there must be even more affirmation of the role of MPs, MPs and all those proposals that went in that direction, I support, in a way that attempts to overcome a very often present tendency for MPs and MPs to come to meetings only to vote in advance on the agenda, or in order to discuss a problem that is on the agenda with the established clichés. In particular, I think that 169 Rules of Procedure must further affirm the equality of all MPs, i.e., in this context I would particularly support the proposal to supplement Article 54a, I will remind you that it is decadently standing. If the chairman or chairman wishes to participate in the debate, he will leave his home office and will not return to them until the debate on the matter is over. We are here quite often faced with a very biased session, and I would say by automatically giving ourselves words, so we even had cartoon forms of work in this Parliament in which it was announced, at a session, and now we will open up the possibility for MPs to be able to ask questions. Here, I'm giving myself the right to ask a question. I think this member is very important. It is established and based on the procedures and practices of countries in parliaments of developed democracy and I think it is very, very important. The next thing I'd like to point out, under two, as an essential element, as a principled remark. Political minorities should be affirmed in this Rules of Procedure. I think that question is going to be more and more current. Today, it is expressed primarily through the consolidation of the current Parliament, where the elected MPs, most often from the RS, come from the Serb people's order, whether it is most often and not 100 per cent now, from the Federation of BiH, most often from the Bošnjak and Hrvat, and now it is not 100 per cent, I think that in the coming period we should worry more about the protection of political minorities, it is a group that are in the minority, and in this context, their rights, both in terms of commission chairmanship and in terms of the right to present their proposals, i.e. against proposals of the current political majority. Believe you who are in the political majority here today in this House, I am primarily saying this because of the democratic relations of the future BiH, and, of course, because of you as political options that are currently the current majority. 3. It's a very specific proposal. I think it is very important for this Parliament to start dealing with issues that are not given in a certain way to the jurisdiction of the central institutions or parliament, but the current issue is very important, and this is a question of environmental protection. I think that through one committee that through its opinions, through its suggestions regarding the legislative act adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and which will be hundreds in the coming period, we would have this aspect of environmental protection, because there is not a single body at least at political level that cares about the uniqueness of the protection of natural resources, and even when a river Una flows through the areas of one and another entity, or it flows through all areas and environments where these dominant single policy options currently rule. Here, with these three remarks that can have a principled character, not being concrete, in line with the suggestion, chairing, concrete amendments for which we will have the opportunity in the next period, I would complete my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4239	Thank you very much. Replica, Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4240	Ladies and gentlemen, esteeming what fellow Members of Parliament Tokić said, there is almost nothing to challenge, that there is no small dilemma about political minorities. It is an unclear category for me in electoral legislation and political life. Here I am now trying to analyse the Parliament of the RS and the Federation of BiH and this is the Representative Council. In the RS Parliament you have, of the ruling parties you have SDS, radicals, 170 Social Democrats, Socialists, you have the Social Democrats BiH, you have the HDZ BiH, you have the NHI, you have the CD Coalition. You have here these same parties as the ruling. They realize tasks, if they are part of the same party, the same political programme, or they are different parties. Either the CD Coalition in RS is one brand-new or different party, or the Social Democrats in RS are different from the Social Democrats at BiH level. In that sense, I cannot understand what a political minority is. I am, for example, a political minority in Parliament, unfortunately, I wish I were a ruling party, but I am a political minority in the sense that there are so many MPs that they are not important, I cannot come to a favourable decision in terms of voting. So that category of political minority is unclear to me. I think the way political life in BiH is organised, impossible majorisation, in that sense, is just to explain what a political minority is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4241	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, MPs, I don't want to abuse this discussion, but since the direct question was directed at me, what are political minorities, I would refer my fellow Špirić to some of the lexicons or encyclopedias to find the answer there and not distract by their ignorance this high home.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4242	How about you two sit here and just change.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4243	No, I think we're having quite a proper discussion and don't get upset at all. This is Parliament, and I don't think we've even dated often, assuming Mr. Tokić is right, and he's not. Nikola Špirić has read more books, kilograms of books than Tokic's complete weight party has alive people, but here, to explain to me, according to this same lexicon, what a political minority, who he has read, I haven't read, I have to be honest. Therefore, such a relationship in this House does not mean anything. Niko of this Tokic story will benefit.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4244	My replica is to Mr. Tokić, he's out, but, look, let's hear it, so maybe he'll hear it like that. In his presentation, he presented the thesis that it is necessary to protect the national minorities in BiH, which I agree with 100%, as a man and a politician, let me say, as much as I know and know how to be, I will advocate the same thing. However, by explaining this thesis, he forgot that there is no state on the globe that can protect national minorities, if she forgot to protect her constituent people. If the country is yet another of the smaller colors in the world that has 2-3 constituents, perhaps some more people, then it is even harder to protect each of these people, and BiH has three constituent peoples and we must first decide to really protect all these three peoples, and then they will protect all the other people in BiH. Explain that you are fighting for the rights of national minorities, and in doing so you want something completely different, which is clear to all of us, it's really not fair or fair. 171
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4245	Since I have repeatedly replicated, I hope that the BiH Constitutional Court will make a good decision on the consistency of the people in the territory of all BiH, as I see it here a general mood created between the three constituent peoples, at least in political statements.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4246	Please, MP, make a comment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4247	That's my comment. Now about, of course, my hopes, seeing all the wishes interpreted, thought, etc. As for this second part of the discussion, I would like to draw attention to several members. First, I would like to draw attention to the members from 101 to 109 and underline the importance of this discussion, the responsibility of our House of Representatives to strengthen the role and positions of MPs. Second, Section 8, transparency of work. I want to draw attention to the following in sections 71 to 74. From 71 to 74 in the part of the transparency of work, it is said in Article 71, point 2 of the same terms that under equal conditions all media provides access to information available, except for information that is state, military, official or business secret, regulated by law and other regulations, is passed on the basis of the law. I must say, I am very pleased that this article 71 has Section 2. Namely, he testifies that BiH respects its state, military, undermining...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4248	Ambassador, please don't interpret, tell me what you're proposing and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4249	Military, official or business secrets, which seems to me to establish some of the fundamental functions of the BiH state. In that section, from 71 to 74, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in terms of the transparency of work here, the role and ability of citizens to attend the BiH Parliament's sessions are strongly highlighted. I would like to particularly welcome that provision, because I believe it is one provision that allows full transparency of work. Article 36, that's what I'd like to supplement. The Foreign Affairs Commission will consider different issues from a) to (g) not to read, since MPs have this in front of them, by including under h) that the Foreign Affairs Commission will consider, it has repeatedly been in our Commission's discussion, those proposals and reports on the work of diplomatic and consular representatives of BiH, which means one function of the parliamentary commission, the control function of the parliamentary commission in relation to 172 functions held by diplomatic and consular representatives in the world. I consider it a very important addition to this commission's work and I think it would strengthen the role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, yes, for example. The diplomatic and consular representatives, before leaving and after returning from diplomatic services, submit a report, i.e. make it very clear, at the hearing of the parliamentary commission, whether they are fully capable of doing the job or not. At that time, it would not happen to us that after a certain period we realize that a number of ambassadors, or a diplomatic consular representative, do not meet the interests of BiH at all, nor can they meet the criteria of diplomatic and consular work. In this regard, I would especially like to include two proposals, of course, since it is a principle debate. I would like to see the Rules of Procedure, given that BiH is on its way into the WE, that it has a permanent delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that it has its permanent delegation elected in the OSCE and Interparliamentary Union, delegations should be made up of representatives of all the political options here in Parliament of the fifti-fifti against the sex structure, I believe that the Rules of Procedure should be incorporated against these three bodies of the Council of Europe, the Interparliamentary Union and the OSCE, the obligations arising from the role of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegations, which are our official delegations in international bodies. That would create the obligation of these three delegations to act, of course, and c) including, I apologize, the fourth, and thus create one regularity between us. In this way it could be improvised, especially after full membership in the WE, when we get that opportunity. Finally, in addition to commissions proposed, environmental and gender equality committees, I would like to propose to consider the possibility that a whole sector related to issues of general interest for BiH citizens are related to science, are related to education and culture, and that a team is introduced into the Rules of Procedure, too, a proposal to launch a commission that will deal with issues of general interest in the areas of these social activities of the citizens of BiH, where it is undeniable that there is significant co-operation between universities, scientific institutions and that it is necessary to support the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4250	Dear ladies and gentlemen, esteeming time and all that has been said before, I'm really going to be very brief. I would like to, we will have opportunities to make concrete remarks on the draft Rules of Procedure, and then I will certainly have objections, because I have already recorded them. These may be more or less technical, but also some of the remarks that are not at the moment, when this debate is in principle at stake. I'd just like to look back at two or three things. First of all, it refers to the club's representatives. I don't think this matter should be introduced into the Rules of Procedure as an obligation, but rather as a right, and in that sense, to mitigate the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, relating to the clubs of legislators. Furthermore, I would like to say that I believe in Article 17 that an alternative should be accepted. You have a Rules of Procedure before you, so that I do not quote now what this is about, that the alternative should also be accepted in article 106, it is related to the submission of amendments to the Constitution. However, in Article 34, I believe that the alternative, excuse me, attitude 2 should be deleted, and therefore the alternative in this article. Finally, something that's been talked about, and with just a few words, I refer to something that no one has mentioned here, and what I would like to say, is Article 117, paragraph 1. It is said in article 107 that the home can adopt 173 resolutions to be implemented by the BiH presidency and by the BiH Council of Ministers and other institutions. I think the Presidency should be deleted here, because the House and the BiH Presidency are of the same rank and this should not be the way it stands in this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4251	Thank you, go ahead. No more reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I'll wait for them to finish, and then I'll do it. Poslaniče Tokić, can we continue the session? What about the consultation? Here, the consultations are finally over. We now have the possibility, we are here today, we have heard a series of remarks and suggestions from MPs on the draft. Of the MPs, no one has delivered in writing, as the Rules of Procedure so far states, and you are now putting me in a very awkward position, and give me, Secretariat, to deliver it. I can figure this point out the next way. That the motionary based on the debate, when offered a stenogram complete, accept or reject something that you have suggested today and, of course, install it in the proposal. We can express ourselves on the alternatives here, and we can give them the same approach, that the motionary on the basis of the discussion, when he looks at it, see what is accepted, what is it that is not accepted and installed or not installed an alternative. We have two options. I'd like to take a short break now to make arrangements with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, and I don't want to cook about it, so it turns out that we're deliberately trying to make some kind of mess about this job, because this is a responsible job. The Rules of Procedure are an important document of the PSBiH House of Representatives. If you agree to make one small consultation with the presidents of the parliamentary clubs about this approach, or to accept one of these two proposed models immediately. Let's take this one first. I'm going to formulate a conclusion now. The PSBiH House of Representatives accepts the draft rules of procedure of the House, provided that the proposer, the Kolegijum, therefore, examines any observations and suggestions made by the MPs and makes a proposal from the draft and the observations. So if the Proposer respects them or doesn't respect them. You're facing the Kolegijum's proposal, so you don't have to worry about that. You can do whatever you want to do to the Kolegijum, and whoever we hired, that's our personal matter. It's not a secret, and you can tell. Sure, why not. Here, I'm calling one member, so I don't guess the names, here, we'll hear it now. What are you worried about, MP? Now we're gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4252	I thank the president.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4253	The chairman. 174
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4254	The chairman, in front of the Commission, is the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College, which should only prepare the Rules of Procedure for Pre-North and direct the Kolegijum to determine the draft text. The Commission worked in front of BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat Branka Todorović, Vedran Hadžović, Jadranko Tomić. From the ranks of experts, worked by Professor Kunić, Professor Mile Kudić of the Croatian people and, to help me, from the order of the Bosniak people, Mirsad Ćeman. It's a commission that worked and prepared the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4255	You blame us for the text, not the Commission. So you've heard the conclusion. Is there a need to repeat? I don't think so. How many are present — 26. Who's the bottom line on this? - 25 against? - There are no uzdržati 2 I konstatuj there is no need to vote on entities because we see that we have a majority. I find that this draft has been adopted, this conclusion that has been announced and is being made in the draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. I'm closing this agenda point and we're moving to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. A proposal for a law on public documents in BiH You have received a proposal for a law on public documents. Here, there's an amendment to this proposal. I'm asking the President of the Constitutional Commission, he's not here, Deputy, is he there? I suggest that a lady named Alma Čolo declare the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4256	The chairman, I am not authorized as a member of the Commission to state my position, but I can say that the Committee for Constitutional and Legal Affairs of this House has considered one of the previous meetings of the Law on Public Corrections, and has found that there is a constitutional basis in the BiH Constitution for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4257	Is there a need for the promoter to say something?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4258	The respected presidency, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, MPs, the Council of Ministers discussed this issue and proposed to Parliament a harmonised, unanimously agreed draft law on public documents in BiH. Very briefly, a few reasons for the need to pass one of these laws. The BiH presidency also insisted in the previous session and demanded that the BiH Council of Ministers and Parliament resolve the issue later on by law and to settle the issue of the importance of public documents in BiH. The problem of recognising the importance of public documents appears in BiH after 6 April 175 1992, when a large number of BiH authorities issued public documents that for various reasons had no importance throughout BiH territory. In addition, a question has been raised about the importance of public documents issued by 6 April 1992, issued since then by the authorities of the former SFRY and its former Socialist republics and its autonomous provinces. The issue of the importance of public documents was also addressed in other countries with which BiH has not concluded interstate agreements. In this regard, the issue of public documents intended for use abroad should also be resolved. The aim of the adoption of this law is, in the end, to say in a unique way, to regulate the conduct of the authorities and the importance of public documents throughout the BiH territory. This way, through BiH institutions and entities, one of the important issues of its, I must say, international legal subjectivity. Therefore, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I ask the BiH Parliament to accept this law, or the bill that we have agreed on for a long time, and this is, I must say, the result of a compromise, however, I believe that, although briefly, this law solves the key problems of BiH at the moment, which a large number of BiH citizens and entities are facing, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4259	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a public hearing under the proposal for a law on public papers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4260	I want a representative of the motionor to ask, because I don't understand, so the answer depends whether I have an amendment to that article or not. It is a member of the 7th public id intended for use abroad, subject to the verification of competent authorities in the Federation of BiH and RS and trust from BiH institutions. In my opinion, this trust from BiH's competent institutions is not exactly clear to me what it means. Here, take exactly one public document as an example, and what a citizen of an entity should do, specifically, except in his entity, he's got a public right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4261	Will the Deputy Minister respond immediately?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4262	Yeah, because the answer depends whether I have an amendment or not.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4263	Article 7 provides that public documents intended for use abroad are subject to the verification of the competent authorities of the Federation of BiH and of the RS and to trust the competent institutions of BiH in accordance with international agreements resulting from the constitutional provision under which BiH is the holder of an international legal entity. Practice in every country in the world is as follows: that the document used abroad, meaning, from BiH, must be verified, in addition to what the court so-called. 176 apostols, the government's competent institution, whether it's the Foreign Ministry, at one point, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs, in this case right now. According to international conventions, international rules, the state body is to trust that authority. So, that BiH institution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4264	Thank you very much. Are you happy with the answer?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4265	Well, I'm not really, given that, let's say, specifically about some kind of public document to be said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4266	It's not clear, Minister, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4267	I'll try, if I can, classically explain, say, birth certificate. There is a possibility by international practice in two ways to recognise the birth certificate issued in BiH, which has been certified normally by the entity's competent authorities, in order to be valid in international transport, it must be certified, either by the foreign ministry, means, by the DKP network authorities outside, or by the foreign ministry, or by the competent state authority, in this case, at this time, by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. There is another variant, to explain this to you, in the birth certificate, even in some cases such a document is not recognised, but is issued so-called. an international birth certificate certified only by the competent national authority. So, international transport is subject to documents that are certified directly by the state institution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4268	Make an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4269	Ladies and gentlemen, I will draw attention to two things. The first one I keep talking about, and the second one that's tied to this law. It would be logical when legal projects pass the procedure of the BiH Council of Ministers and when they come to the BiH Parliament to stand the preamble to the Constitution and a member of the BiH Constitution. This law, in my opinion, is not complete, because it does not contain a constitutional preamble. Whether she exists or not, I didn't get into it, but I think it would be good if we were told which member of the BiH Constitution. The second thing about the law is that I get listed, in accordance with the Constitution, by the public documents of BiH. What kind of law doesn't say what a public document is? I really don't know what's defined by this law. Public documents must be listed at BiH level. It must be defined by law. I can't figure out what a public ID is here. I can name one, two, three or five, but the law must tell exactly what BiH public documents are and whether there are public documents of the entity or whether this law will put public 177 entity documents under its jurisdiction. Once we've cleared that up, then we'll be able to discuss the essence and amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4270	Whether, Minister, whether you answer the questions directly or not, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4271	Dear colleagues, in addition to what counterpart Špirić said, therefore, absolutely this bill, as it is, is missing, does not contain one of the basic parts, which is preamble. However, I have already put one amendment on Article 2, but with the right, dear colleague Dokić has turned my attention to Article 2, Article 4. When I read it a little more carefully, it is indeed very, very unspeakable and very, very disputable. I'll literally read it. If the issue of a public document does not appear in the title BiH, it can be put on the line afterwards. What does that mean? It is not clear to me, indeed, but to me the documents that were issued after 6.4. In 1992, he works in the RS, and I suppose in part two, which do not contain the BiH title. Who is this and how will the name BiH be named in this public order? Who's going to be authorized? Whether every single one of those referents and a clerk who works in the home office will put it there on the death certificate, or I don't know it there on a birthmark copy of BiH. I'm really not asking you this, and I don't want you to get my inquiry wrong, but purely for technical reasons. It is not precisely determined how such documents will be subject to the possible adoption of this Law on Public Corrections. I mean, and in any case, the answer to this question will certainly depend on whether or not I will propose an amendment to this article's position as well.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4272	I would agree with Miodrag Deretić's opinion, which refers to a subsequent enrollment in a public readout of the name BiH. After writing some text into a device that was made up back in '92. For years, so far, it means getting into the essence of that I.D. We here need this law to legalize all the documents that have been issued since '92. A year to this day. After writing something into that correctment, it's really a violation of its contents, a violation of its authenticity.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4273	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, is well aware that this is one of the laws that, according to plans, should have been adopted in the first half of last year and that this is one of the necessary laws for the normal functioning of BiH, i.e. the normal functioning of every citizen of this country. What I would like to point out is the need to be more responsible for the debate itself. We have here a proposal for an electoral law, we have a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, we have a definition of what is meant by public documents and the need, or political orientation of a number of MPs, not to accept this law as a rule, de facto almost no law proposed in this parliamentary procedure, should be masked by these incorrect allegations and formal 178 reasons, because I will repeat, according to the Rules of Procedure, whether there is a constitutional basis, in principle, in Parliament's procedure, decides and gives my own opinion to the Constitutional Commission. We heard from the beginning that the Constitutional Commission gave its position. What I would like to point out is that, in accordance with the amendment tabled, if there are no more amendments, the chairman, the Proposer declares the amendment and that we are trying to reach a decision on this law in the procedure. These discussions, which politically, are trying to disguise behind the alleged, formal, and I don't know what kind of reasons, will take us anywhere. Gentlemen who have come to this session who are constantly coming to meetings to vote against all the laws that are passed at BiH level do not have to explain this to broad debates, formal reasons, ignorances, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4274	The replicas are this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4275	After this discussion of my esteemed colleague Tokić, I really considered it necessary for me to replicate here, because it is clearly alluding after every discussion I have had, right now the discussion of the esteemed counterpart Tokić goes into this context that someone who is challenging appears here, obstructs Parliament's work, etc. If, colleague Tokić, and I saw that you were sitting there, you did not leave for a certain period of time sitting while I was discussing, you could hear very well that I had not obstructed in my discussion in any way, nor tried to challenge the adoption of a law on public papers, because anyone who understands this call that I am dealing with, and, given the circumstances, I am doing very well in this invitation, it is perfectly normal that one of these laws must be passed. My discussion of no moment, I suppose that all other colleagues will agree with what I am going to say, was not in the sense that I obstructed the adoption of the law, but, quite normally, as an MP, only asked the proponent to explain, or, I agreed with Spiric's discussion that the law does not have a preamble, which is unsustainable, because there is no law, and that there is no preamble, on the one hand, and I have pointed out one illogicality that exists in the proposal of this law. We are the ones who must also point to this and ultimately bring and vote on the laws as they are to be passed. The fact is, in Article 4, Section 2, there is one illogicality. My kolegica, Čolo, explained this very well, and I absolutely agree with her proposal, in the sense that indeed all these public documents that were passed beyond the 6.4.992 years of strength, but I did not understand how this would have been done, if this remained as the promoter now suggested, and in this context was my discussion. I ask you, in the future, that, dear colleague Tokić, do not try in any way after my discussion to display it as an obstruction. This wasn't an obstruction. This was a constructive proposal. In that context, I ask you nicely not to discuss it like that in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4276	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, the BiH Council of Ministers has inadmissiblely proposed few laws to this high house and has agreed on a small number of proposals. There are MPs at the PSBiH House who voted against all these proposals. One group of MPs. 179
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4277	Who are, I beg you, MP, I want it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4278	In this context, I mentioned that there are MPs who obviously come with the intention of not voting any law bearing the name of BiH law. I didn't mention it, Mr. Deretić, you. I have to tell you honestly, I didn't even think about you, and the fact that you recognized yourself in that role, that's a question that psychologists or, I don't know, general public opinion could be further evaluated.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4279	I have, as an MP. Dear Ambassador Tokić, don't go, because you'll probably be out of here right now. Please respond here with a very specific name and name, who are MPs who are constantly coming here to vote against. Please, if you say it one more time, and you don't name it now, we'll consider it by preventing work in this House and we'll have to plead as Parliament's clubs on the subject. Here, come out, I beg you nicely, say who these people are, name these people, we all have a name and a last name here, I ask you to name and name.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4280	You have stenograms, Mr. Banjac. [[speaks from the site]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4281	I have called you as an MP, not as the chairman, Your Honor, and answer my question as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4282	I have a replica of Mr. Tokić's exorcision, in the way he said it earlier, there is a prevention of discussion and debate on the law. This is not democratic in advance to condemn discussions and agreements and talks. Really, I can't understand you, which is why you came forward like this saying that someone's discussions are prejudicing something. I think parliament is a democratic parliament, where anyone can give their opinion, on the basis of which courts and decisions will be made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4283	Dear colleagues, I am truly very sorry, what I heard from my colleague Tokić, as a man and an MP, would not really have occurred to me that after any of his discussions, therefore, I am calling on neuropsychiatrics, sociologists, and I do not know any more. At any moment and in any case, it would be below any level to discuss someone's discussion in such a way, especially when it comes to Members of the highest legislative body of BiH, and in this context, Mr 180 chairors, I really ask that by the power of your authority, you and your fellow chairman, indeed in the future, this should be just one of the reasons for such a proposal, really spare us these comments, in order to protect the integrity of every MP sitting in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4284	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I really didn't mention the neuropsychiatrist, Mr. Deretić, look at the stenogram. You mentioned them. In what context, now I won't have at all what premeditation I'm having, why, which is exactly why you're identifying yourself in one and the other, that's really a question that I don't want to consider here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4285	You, sir, insult an MP. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4286	I'm not taking your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4287	I'm interrupting the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4288	It's an incorrect quote. I didn't mention a neuropsychiatrist. I expect, Chairman, that by voting for this law you deny what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4289	An hour's break. How many MPs are there? [[PAUZA]] 28. We continue our work, given that we have 28 MPs, we can continue our work. You, gentlemen of the Parliament, have had the opportunity to make sure that we have quite a rough debate on many points of the agenda. We, like the Kolegijum, sat down and unanimously concluded the following. The College again calls on MPs to respect the Interim Rules of Procedure and to adhere to the agenda points and not to use a dictionary that offends other MPs' dignity. Otherwise, the College, using business opportunities, will take away its word. We're just telling you this for the sake of your knowledge. I'm resuming the agenda. Here you go. Who's answering for a word? Where we left off, the Law of Public Corrections. 181
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4290	Since I've been given an explanation regarding Article 7. The bill's proposal, here, I will table an amendment that reads: In Article 7, delete the words "and trust from BiH's competent institutions". The explanation is next. I think it will technically complicate and make life worse for the citizens, because, here, take a concrete situation. Some woman lives in Bihaq, her husband works in Germany, needs to send a birth certificate there for some payment regulation, so she must come to Sarajevo for that birth certificate, verify it, and then send it to Germany. I don't think there is a need, and with regard to the amendment of counterpart Deretić, who you have also received, if on public papers he writes BiH, then the name of the entity, it is enough to be legally valuable documents. That's my explanation, purely for technical reasons, the complexity of life, and that doesn't get anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4291	Here you go. Who's next to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4292	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for being both convincing and, in some ways, the protectors and rights of those we represent here, I think it would be good to respect the suggestion that, here, I am now giving to all of you. That all the documents in force, issue then in a process as legal and correct and consequential, that this documentation is valid until the date it is issued. Each of them, as far as I know about the documents, has its value indicated. Only after the expiry of its value, in the new procedure, do our citizens take out new documentation in a new way. The reason for this is simple because we're not too cheap a government. We know that whenever we enter any office, our citizens leave 10.15.20 marks, and therefore I think it would be correct and condescending not to tax them again. And secondly, here, we've invented confirmations, confirmations, I'm just asking you, how much time and effort and intelligence will cost, after all, one birth certificate, which should be taken out for, I don't know for who, for my child or for who else, and whether that birth certificate will cost besides 20-30 marks and coming to some kind of supremacy, and I don't know how we decoded it here. This looks like my high school where I wasn't too good a student, so then I had a correction, and then a correction and a correction of this correction, when I didn't know German well. So, I'm asking you to simplify things here, so let's at least technically do it so that all these certificates can get people right in their community. For some, it is a great effort and expenditure to reach the municipality, and only to Sarajevo and the Ministry of Interior and I do not know which other institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4293	Anyone else want to discuss it? 182
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4294	I assume all fellow MPs have received this amendment, the amendment. However, here in Article 2, Article 2 should therefore be complemented in such a way as to read: Article 3. "public documents issued in BiH, in their heading contain BiH, and the name of the entity," item 4. "The public documents issued by the BiH institutions contain only the name BiH". That's it, because I can see that there is no point in point 3 and 4 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4295	Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I ask the Proposer to plead, and please, Pero, let this fourth amendment arrive.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4296	I will try to explain to the MPs a certain matter. First, we did not invent this proposal to make life worse for BiH citizens, so that BiH citizens would leave another mark in the registers of any municipality, any canton, any state, but rather the documents, but rather the desire to help the citizens of BiH. A large number of BiH citizens, unfortunately, are now scattered around the world abroad, and have the need to prove a number of documents in a way that these countries where they are now staying require them. Whether it's a certificate of a diploma, any birth certificate, any marriage certificate, whatever I know, driver's licenses, death certificates, etc. I'm talking about what international principles are and what is an internationally valid practice. So we do not invent and create new problems for people, but simply want to help people in a way: 1. To recognise and respect the documents issued in BiH, from 1992 to today, with this one or two necessary conditions and 2. To enable people to live as high and better as possible. Look, there's a 1961 Hague Convention on Document Authentication. Document verification, that means putting up an apostol, and that apostol puts a municipal court. However, a number of countries, a number of institutions in those countries, in particular there are international contracts and international practices beyond the treaty, are seeking further assurance of these documents. Confidence can only be carried out in international practice by the institutions of the state. So they recognize the institution of the state. At this point, it's the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications. But let me explain. Switzerland, Germany and two or three other states, at this point do not even recognise the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications' self-esteem, as a state authority, but also seek a second seal, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as an institution in charge of international communications, shall verify those documents with its seal. I'd like you to appreciate that. As for the amendments, the amendment of Ms Desanka Rađević, who says Article 7 needs to be deleted and trusted by BiH's competent institutions, for this reason we cannot accept it, because then we didn't get anything, or the purpose we wanted to achieve by this law. If we accept this, then this law has no purpose. 183 As regards the amendment submitted by MP Miodrag Deretić to Article 2, article 2 has one position here and he says: "The public documents issued in BiH contain the name BiH in its title." Apparently, some MPs may not have understood well enough, justifiably,unjustifiedly. This member, this solution, in fact, means that BiH stands on the document, but does not mean that it stands only for BiH. It's normal that there's an entity label that issues that correct, or even canton, municipalities, well, eventually, I don't know, if there's a possibility that even some local community is issuing a particular document. So it doesn't mean that it's just BiH, but that it's mandatory for BiH to stand, and it's perfectly normal for all the institutions that have the powers to issue public documents to be placed under it. So, that there were entities, whether the government, entity, entity, entity-level court, then maybe regions, in the Federation of BiH canton, municipalities, etc. I don't know what other amendment we haven't answered. It was in the debate to determine what a public document was. I think Article 4 speaks very clearly of it. You know, if we did that, now would be a huge list and maybe we'd always leave something out. Article 4 states: "Under public law within the meaning of Article 3 of this Act, the document is considered to be issued by competent authorities, organisations or other legal entities in the exercise of public powers in BiH, the Federation of BiH, in the RS and bodies in their composition." So those documents that are legally issued, whether institutions of the state, whether entity or body institutions within these entities, cantons, municipalities, etc. Somewhere these three amendments are repeated, in fact, three MPs repeat the amendments, I think I've given an adequate answer to this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4297	First, I did not understand whether my amendment was acceptable to the BiH Council of Ministers or not, he remained unspeakable, in that sense I was unhappy, on the one hand. On the other hand, the gentleman told me that it implies that below BiH may be an entity's mark, but in order not to be a sign of some local community, I would, however, as a legalist, suggest that this amendment be adopted as indicated, therefore, and the name of the entity and, please, did not plead to this next position, I do not know if you got that? Public documents issued by BiH institutions contain only the name BiH. You didn't make a statement at all or you didn't understand me, or you didn't get that copy, so I would ask you nicely to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4298	Simply, the proposal for a member, the bill, means that Article 2 per se leaves a very clear possibility for all of this to be spoken of without further clarification and insistence on this. So there is, we just define that it has to be, and that the rest we can accept. However, Mr. Deretić, if we say now, the public documents issued in BH in his head contain the name BiH, and the name of the entity, okay, we can accept that it explains it. But what if the Sarajevo Canton issued a public order? What if the municipality betrayed her? I'm talking about the document. The document she issued, say, the Sarajevo City Center. It stands in the name of BiH, entity, canton, municipality. It goes with this law. We're unnecessarily precise. We can look at it now, make it clear, it's completely unnecessary, then we should add canton and municipality and maybe some more instance, the institution appears, and it's all here, it's not a reduction of approach, it's just being determined that it has to have BiH, and everything else is standing. 184
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4299	I ask you to just make a statement, whether my amendment is acceptable from the point of view of the Council of Ministers of BiH or not, nothing more, and that MPs have that attitude in mind, in the light of the vote, I am not asking for anything more, dear colleague. Just tell me if it's acceptable or not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4300	The way you suggested it wasn't, but if the MPs insist, maybe you could rephrase. The way you suggested, no.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4301	Sir, I've already prepared the next amendment, it's just multiplying. I'd like you to do exactly what you said, Mr. Minister. Public documents issued in BiH contain the name BiH, the comma, entities and other authorised institutions that have the authority to issue public documents, and other authorised institutions that can issue public documents. These are both entities and municipalities and local communities, if you will, everyone has a right to do so. It shouldn't bother anyone who has a right, who doesn't, so he can't get that right. You'll get that amendment now. This position 2. I suggest, here, now you get the amendment, I beg you to plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4302	So the amendment, Mr. Deretić's modified amendment, as you added, is acceptable for the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4303	Thank you very much. Next attitude. Acceptable. Now I'm going to hand over this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4304	Just a moment of attention, nothing is essential, but it seems to me, I would, Mr. Minister, since my remarks refer to your comment, I would ask you to listen to me, because for these others, it doesn't matter. You just explained how it was defined what public documents are. I think, as it says here, it's very missing. See Article 4, says, under public law within the meaning of Article 3 of this Act, and Article 3 defines only public documents issued from 6 April 1992 to today. So it's not complete. It's very missing. I don't know if you understand me, please read again Article 3 and Article 4. This in the sense of Article 3, should be deleted from Article 4, then you'll get what you wanted, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4305	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, will you plead immediately? Not yet. I'm asking you to keep that in mind. We have more amendments, have you come to Mr. Skopljak's amendment? We have Mr. Rakić's amendments that you won 185, and you haven't spoken. If the BiH Council of Ministers wants a break, I will. If he's not looking, how can I give. Do you need a break? It takes, how long, to know for sure. The amendments are all here, it's not disputed. He's pulling himself out for all the MPs. MPs, if they don't want to get away with it, we can give it now. I'm asking the promoter, sir. Until the amendments come. Let's move on to this point, and let's go back, if they don't mind. He can't. Okay. All amendments to the Proposer. Please, is 15 minutes long enough, Mr. Minister? Yes, it is. At five o'clock and five minutes, we're back to work. Gentlemen of the Parliament, the esteemed guests, there are 23 MPs in the hall, we can continue our work. [[PAUZA]] Here, I have now been informed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Deputy Minister, that more amendments have arrived in the meantime, it may not be a particularly good practice, but what is it, there it is. We should have all the amendments delivered when it was time, which is before the session begins, except you know according to the Rules of Procedure that, if a compromise solution is sought, then the amendment can be delivered during the session, as it says in the Rules of Procedure, gentlemen. I've made such an amendment, Your Honor, but not others. Others did what they were supposed to do before. Let's not complicate it now. Let's find a solution. The deputy minister proposes, given that there is no complete composition of the BiH Council of Ministers, and the phone could not be heard with everyone, that we postpone this item of the agenda for the next session and continue the work. It's not worth it. Now I was going to tell everyone who has something else to do with the amendment to send it to people. I don't argue with an MP. You can take it out if you want. It's written. Are you agreeing to postpone this agenda item for the next session, given this situation, that the Council of Ministers of BiH is unable to declare the amendments. So they're not capable of what we can do. I can't. Tomorrow we continue, and they can't do it tomorrow either. Here, the minister, therefore, will say well, and you understand me well for the next session. We are delaying this point as one of the points for the 17th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, for the reason that the BiH Council of Ministers is unable to declare its amendments. I urge MPs who have amendments to the bill's proposal to deliver them in writing to the ministry, the Secretariat, and will be forwarded to the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents of BiH, Proposer Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković, please give an introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4306	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel Documents of BiH came as an attempt by the motion to respond to the obligations of the Madrid Declaration, where it was decidently stated that through the Bosnian Herzegovic Law it must provide the right of 186 citizens who wish to have travel documents without the name of the entity. At the same time, this position was also underlined by members of the BiH presidency as part of the text and commitment of the New York Declaration, which was made public and delivered here to all MPs, MPs, as a material, as information. I remind you that the New York Declaration of Members of the BiH Presidency is a document that has been incorporated as an integral part of the Security Council documents, therefore, the commitment of the highest bodies of the international community on which all three members of the Bosnian-Herzegovina Presidency have reached full agreement. This PSBiH House of Representatives would remind me simultaneously of the need to allow members of the Brcko District to have a document that has no entity name, given that the arbitration decision of the Brcko District has been declared, from the point of view of entities, as a special territory, and in this respect the adoption of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Travel Documents would help the District to move faster, which I am convinced, I believe, is the interest of the citizens of BiH and all of these representatives elected to this high home. Finally, I would just point out this, that this proposal for amending and supplementing the law came at the same time as a response to a series of initiatives by a number of NGOs and a large number of citizens who want to see that possibility come true. This is not a desire to undermine entities, this is not a desire to destroy the right of the entity, it's just a desire for people who want to make it look like a travel document. Believing that MPs, MPs, will support the commitment of the New York Declaration, which means our BiH Presidency, the Madrid Declaration and the wish of citizens, the people of BiH, I expect at least this law to be passed, and thus deny the current thesis that in this House none of the proposed laws can be supported by a number of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4307	I wrote you down for discussion, and you can replicate, I didn't know what you were answering for. I'm opening a debate now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4308	Mr. Tokić here mentions the Brcko District. Gentlemen, the Brcko District statute states that anyone living in Brcko can be defined as one of the citizenship, RS or the Federation of BiH. Therefore, it is no excuse for such an act. It is no special territory within BiH. It's just an arrangement in a special way, but territorially it's the same.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4309	Mr Chairman, honourable colleagues, I will only remind myself of the position, i.e. the opinion of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, at a session held on 15.7., where 5 members of the Commission were present and that the Commission supported the adoption of such a law, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law on Travel Immigrants. Four were in favour, and one was against a member, with which, normally, reflecting the views of the Madrid Declaration and the views of the New York Declaration which suggests and seeks, the Peace Implementation Council in BiH asks those who want such documents, i.e. travel documents to have such documents, so I introduce you to the Commission's position and on my personal behalf and support this proposal. 187
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4310	I have one question for the applicants of this law. Namely, on the paper that we all got, there's this sign and it says the Alternative Council of Ministers of BiH, I guess it's a header, and then it's the bill. As far as I know, it looks like we've got two or three ministers' advice, if anyone can explain to me what it is. If they are then the Council of Ministers, I simply don't know what it is and I don't know this sign of what it is, this one I understand partyically and how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4311	I have to admit, I was wondering today why they're so common replicas and rainbows. Now I've found the answer, it's very pleasant in this cold room to stand in front of this hot stove, I think. Before I talk about this law, I think the College should make one decision, if it has to be written somewhere in a visible place in this room, that all those who own cell phones during the session turn off their phones. I don't think there's much to do with any MP from that job we're doing here. Surely the legislators of this law have the right to propose this and have some basis, I will not say now, this is not according to the Constitution and, if I can state a series of claims under which this law has already been fully adopted under the Constitution, this is what we discussed a little over two years ago, and no one has asked the question of the constitutionality of this law. If you remember, the only thing at the end we were stuck with was the size of an entity's letters and to remind you that one law didn't pass because of that. The explanation, in terms of, you know, there are a lot of citizens who don't want to write them the name of the entity on the cover of the passport, it's really inconclusive, then a group of citizens could file one request saying, you know what, we don't like the blue color of the passport, we're comfortable with more red. Perhaps you'd be more appropriate to me, for one reason or another, interpret whatever you want it to be red. So, really, now getting into what someone would want and how someone would want is unnecessary, useless, and invalid. To the side of it all. I have one principled reason, a really principled reason, which is why I won't even participate in the discussion of this law and the like. In what way? I would remind you that this is one of the few laws that were adopted in that first convening of that congregation, when we were hard-working a congregation atmosphere, and that we had more laws from that same convocation declared by the Office of the High Representative than was adopted by the Assembly in that time. I really can't find an excuse, by those proposings who insist on changing exactly the law, and I haven't heard any public demands, I say this publicly, in the means of information available to me, nor in this assembly to do anything to make those laws declared by the Office of the High Representative, on a temporary basis, not to be on a temporary basis, but to pass the assembly procedure. There are laws that are as temporary as this law. So my attitude is extremely principled. As long as we have one law, which adopted someone else instead of this congregation, I am not prepared to discuss at all the law adopted by this congregation through my regular procedure. 188
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4312	As Mrs. Čolo comes out, I'd like to remind you, she's up now, please, ma'am. Then Ambassador Kadić, may I remind you that, according to the earlier conclusion, we will be working until 18 hours and will continue at 10 tomorrow. That's what we said, and there's no reason we shouldn't do it like that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4313	Dear MPs, gentlemen of the chairman, Mr Tokić and Divković's law is for the second time in the parliamentary procedure and the Constitutional Commission has both found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. As a member of this home, I would like to say that when the citizens are born, they get a birth certificate, that the citizens of 18 are given and can get a ID card, i.e. they necessarily get a ID card, but that when they turn 18 they can, but they don't have to have their country's passport. The passport issue is a question of freedom of choice for whoever wants to have it or does not have a BiH passport, and in this respect, I support the Law that assures BiH citizens to have a BiH passport, without citing entities. It is the natural, human, civil right of every BiH citizen and it cannot be limited by any previous law that has occurred in a difficult compromise way. The constitutional foothold for this initiative, but directly for this initiative, I find in Article 1, point 7, point (e) which I will literally read. "The BiH citizen will enjoy the protection of BiH abroad." Any entity can issue a BiH passport to its citizens, as regulated by the Parliamentary Assembly. BiH, it can issue passports to those citizens whose passport has not been issued by entities and there will be a central register of all passports. I ask why in the existing law governing this matter, it is also not a compromise to respect this sentence that BiH can issue passports to those citizens whose passport has not been issued by entities, or in translation, to those citizens who do not want a passport from one of the entities. This is a direct constitutional foothold of this right, which has been translated into the Bill's proposal, and I believe that if there are doubts about any other matters here, indeed, there is no direct doubt as to the explicit constitutional basis for the adoption of one of these laws in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4314	Dear Chairman, we have heard from earlier speakers that the adoption of this law, a foothold for its adoption, stands in Madrid and the New York Declaration and I truly support the adoption of this law. However, the Law contains a number of legal technical shortcomings. The very name of the amendment is the amendment of the Law on travel documents, and we know that laws can only be amended by law and this should be the Law on amendments to the Law on travel documents. Also, this bill is not divided into members, and it would have to contain members. I propose that the Secretariat, if this law is passed, carry out these legal-technical corrections, of course, with the approval of the promoter, because 189 really cannot, when adopted, be published in the Official Messenger of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4315	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first to thank Mrs. Čolo for the interventions, I think that these are constructive interventions, and if, once we hear them again, read them, see, be acceptable, we would very much like to agree to enter into the law to sort of satisfy these legal norms. I think that's the way to intervene, when it comes to this law. We are here for the second, third time discussing this law, but it is clear to all of us that there is no claim and that there is nothing to be questioned by anyone's right. The rights are being extended here and there is no disputed constitutionality of the law that is now in force, we have not disputed it, we extend this law, we change it in this part. We have now, here's a report from the Commission that says this proposal has been suspended, so that's not disputed either. Mrs. Perkanović asked a question for the Brcko District. We know that the Brcko District Statute defines both the forms and the contents of the documents in that district, so I don't see anything controversial either. With Mrs. Radović, her question was about... I would remind you that your prime minister, RS Prime Minister Milorad Dodik, was the president of AMV, was a member of the AMV, we would not now elaborate what AMV is and what its function is, etc. It is important here that the applicants, practically, the bill is proposed by representatives Mr. Tokić and I, so it is according to a fully respected business procedure and I see nothing controversial here. I would remind you just to keep a little account, when it comes to this law and the proposal contained in it, that there are also citizens of this country who have left this country, or the former country, 15-20 or more years ago, who do not live in BiH all that time, but are BiH citizens and have citizenship, etc., and who probably do not look at the entities that we look at inside and who want us to, because they asked us to, in some way, enter the procedure with this law, to have only the mark of BiH on the passport and that it is enough for them and that it is their desire to allow them to do so. Let us, since the law is constitutional, since it does not offend and challenge anyone's other right, etc., let us allow these people to exercise their right, because the existing law practically prevents them from exercising their right to have only BiH on the front cover and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4316	Ladies and gentlemen, it is the legitimate right of every BiH citizen to want a salary of $10,000, arranged apartments, arranged space around them, that is all legitimate right. No one has the right to live in BiH to disrespect its territorial and political order. Imagine if one of the developed European states found someone who said that what you're doing doesn't like anything, in accordance with the protection of human rights, I want a completely different passport, would you get that? This idea does not hide the protection of human rights, especially when Mr. Divković said someone learned to live, who went outside, lived in BiH until '90. A year in some BiH, which did not contain two entities. Two entities are reality. We were just talking about public documents where we asked a question to necessarily place the name of the entity, so that no one would have thought to change the political and legal structure of BiH, not because 190 citizens would not have the right. Therefore, a group of citizens who do not recognise BiH's territorial arrangement cannot seek any other benefits. Well, I guess we're the kind of people who are legalists. So what's signed in Dayton and the BiH arrangement, the one who wants to enjoy and work in accordance with the positive legal regulations and constitutions, must first of all respect it and I don't think there's a fight behind this idea for the protection of human rights. Let's be honest. You know that the idea of BiH is present in important political circles. Don't let me tell you all the initiatives there are. Turns out there are MPs here, because there are legal ideas from MPs sitting here about reviewing and abolishing entities. Don't you think this isn't the first step towards it, but let's open it up, clearly say what's behind it. I am not for anyone who does not recognise BiH's territorial and political structure, under the motto of human rights, to seek something in this regard. Anyone who doesn't confess can look for another state.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4317	The replicas were applied to me: Dokić, Čaršimamović for the discussion, Tokić applied for the discussion and Deretić applied for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4318	I would just like to tell Ambassador Rasim that everything he has read to us from the Constitution, that it stands in the current Law on travel documents, absolutely everything, even if someone in the entity does not give a passport, that they can get it in BiH institutions. My point is, once again, to this point, this is not against what the SDP asked for, absolutely standing, but the introduction of so much of the will of the citizens brings us to the point that tomorrow I want to show up at your place to make me an amendment by which I want a red passport, an example works. On the other hand, there's one more very important thing I want to tell you. The passport is a citizen's document. The BiH citizenship was derived from entity citizenship and these were, gentlemen, the elements that put it on the passport. I'd still like to say this. The fact that it came to Madrid and New York, it is the consequence of the actions of those, I will not say the promoter, but those who have been speaking for an hour and an hour, are politically speaking to high political authorities in BiH, who are not able to translate the entity's name through their mouths, but rather the other entity, the entity there, etc. For me, those decisions that are suggestive are not binding.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4319	I'd only like to replicate one thing. counterpart Špirić said he does not allow those who do not recognise BiH's territorial order to propose amendments to the law. As far as I know, all of us here in the hall have sworn to the BiH Constitution, and thus we have recognised BiH's territorial order, and at the same time we are the ones who propose this law. What you said doesn't stand, and I hope you'll apologize. Besides, I'd like to say something to my colleague Dokić along the way. He said in his first statement that for principled reasons he would no longer take part in the debate over this law, but, behold, he came out again for a pay phone to say. In the end, I support the full legitimate right of all MPs to make amendments to the laws adopted in this parliamentary procedure. 191
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4320	I have to tell my esteemed colleague, Čaršimanović, there's no reason for my apology. The congregation does not exist for us to attack, apologize, but we participate in a constructive discussion. I made it clear that the citizen who does not recognise BiH's political and territorial structure cannot seek the benefits that BiH offers as a state, it is not seen anywhere in the world but here. There's something else behind this idea. Mr. Divković said that a citizen who lived 15 years ago wants to return to BiH without entities can't do that. Where this is in the world, to return a man when the entity is gone, and entities in the Constitution, and BiH is composed of two entities. Let us once speak to the people with understanding. How is it possible that a citizen of America is looking, he says, I don't like what Klinton's doing, I want another passport now. I don't admit to editing America. Don't, let's work for real once as people who are willing to make a move in BiH's interest. You must be aware, whenever you fall for something called an entity, or to break it or disrespect it, you will have resistance from MPs from that entity, whether from the Federation of BiH or from RS, regardless of party membership. With this, you're only detailing the idea that is ever more present in the Federation of BiH, but that's your task, what I can do for you. I have to say, under the protection of human rights, when there's something that looks like an audit, I'm not ready. You can accuse me of not being for the protection of human rights even though I am for the application of all conventions on the protection of human rights.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4321	Replica, MP Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4322	It's a replica of a false allegation. I didn't say at all that a citizen who wants to come back from America doesn't recognize entities. That wasn't even on my mind. I said something completely different and it can be heard and seen there. But where we disagree. We disagree that the claim that a citizen who expressed his wish means a BiH citizen, from any entity, who expressed a desire to have a passport on which only BiH writes, that he denies BiH's territorial structure. That's controversial. In my opinion, he does not deny the territorial structure of BiH at all, because as he denies it, he is simply asking for such a passport, and it is clear that whoever wants to have a passport on which the RS or the Federation of BiH, entities, can get the same. So no one here denies anything, but only gives the right and the possibility and one who has, apart from those prescribed, to say and targeted desires, has some third wish that I can realize as my right, pure human right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4323	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, of course, is the right of every MP to present any position for this speaker, but it would be good not to manipulate, especially with the public of BiH. The story of those who propose such a law in the beginning deny BiH's constitutional arrangements, translated into domestic language, would mean that the Peace Agreement Implementation Council against BiH's constitutional regulation. Such a dictionary would mean that Mr. Živko Radišić, a member of the BiH presidency, was elected to RS territory, against RS. That BiH presidency members Alija Izetbegović and Mr Jelavić are against the Federation of BiH. Of course that is not true and of course we are again facing one concept of rejection of everything that could go in the direction of a consistent application of the Madrid Declaration, a consistent New York Declaration, I remind you, once we have shown ourselves well here who is for the Ponical Service, today we have the opportunity to donate the New York Declaration regarding the Law on Gra again by voting we show this position and this should not be wrapped in any oblanda, alleged protection of national, entity and other interests. Gentlemen, it doesn't say the name of the entity on the license plate, not on the flag, not on the coat of arms, it's not in the anthem. The proposal for this law is a contribution to resolution and documents for the Brcko District. The Brcko District is a special territory and only the name of a district, not to repeat the formulations where it can be found, it clearly shows that it is a territory that is not part of any of the two Bosnian Herzegovina entities. In order to avoid further discussion, in a way without concrete proposals, without amendments, I propose to the chairman, since I have the policy views, options, mostly clear and, unfortunately, I am again not denied in terms of the willingness to vote for any BiH law, by a few MPs, I propose that this debate, that this proposal, should be brought down in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I call on the chairman to lead such a further debate in terms of whether there is an amendment and to move on to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4324	So, as far as the bill on travel documents is concerned, my discussion will first go in terms of the replica to Mr. Kadić, where he says it is perfectly normal for every citizen born to have a passport. However, every BiH citizen has a passport, too. But the problem here is that, by the name of the state, the passport represents the mirror of every country, that's the first one where it goes to any foreign country, the citizen has to show a passport from which the customs officer of the country will see where the stranger comes from. Therefore, the problem here is that there have been many reasons to support this proposal and to find an explanation for the removal of the name, i.e. the entity on the first page of the passport, so NGOs are called, and then they point out that the citizens of BiH have had problems because the first page of the passport contains the name of the entity and I do not know what other names. We are well-known for which reason, for whose kitchen this proposal is coming from, and as far as the call for the Peace Implementation Alliance is concerned, I will only point out one thing, that the same Peace Implementation Alliance has just established a form of passport containing, among other things, the words of the Federation of BiH and RS entity in cursiveness at the Bosnian Conference. Later, however, there was a horrifying salta of Mortale, so all that same Council of Europe said he denied in his Madrid conference. Since all respected fellow BiH MPs, most of all, come on, I will not say everything, I keep one reserve, support this proposal or stand behind it, I will in any case follow the absolute position of fellow Dokić, while all the laws imposed by the High Representative, until these laws pass the regular procedure, so I will never raise my hand for any bill that has a deep background behind it, which, in my deep opinion, is unfounded. Why am I saying this? I'm saying 193 for the simple reason that we really brought this Law on travel documents after exhaustive discussions, if I'm wrong, at least...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4325	I beg you, specifically make an observation, we will all understand and move on.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4326	It's not an objection, it's a suggestion. The moment we are in a position to make an amendment, I will propose everything to one and the other and support the first part of the amendment to the Law and the Supplements, which the SDP Club has proposed, so that it will read in the following way. Article 6 of point 5 of the proposal will read: "A person who wishes to receive a passport on the front page of the cover, under the word of BiH, does not have a sign of the Federation of BiH entity." I will do exactly the same when it comes to Article 7(3), in the same way I will support this proposal and there is no problem. MPs who advocate that the entity and under its name be disturbed by the entity, they do not have to have an entity to the Federation of BiH on the first cover, I will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4327	Let me tell you, we're already here, here's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4328	I'll suggest right away.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4329	Spahić has his word, but I would like more MPs, a concrete proposal, as you suggest. Leave the political debates for the second time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4330	Well, I hope you've applied the plural to h if you haven't dealt with me. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, guests, participants, representatives of the international community who are partners in Dayton BiH by 2002, as you can see, the time is running out, your mandate is slightly longer and is not checked until 2002. I'd like to say just two sentences about this law. First and foremost, this assembly did not take part in the debate on the law that was adopted in the first session, so to return us to that dialogue would not be meaningful. Secondly, we are a well-founded principle that every MP, should express certain interests, certain groups of citizens, and that, if they can, or a group of MPs in the law, that is the basic activity of this home. 194 Since a colloquial debate is about whether the law is governed by people, or people by laws concluded two weeks ago, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it has been repeated twice and at the expense of what my colleague Kadić said. Please don't make a misunderstanding. Since I have heard today and before from a significant number of MPs that there is a full interest in respecting the BiH Constitution, it is undeniable that it is not correct to talk about BiH's citizenship derived from entity citizenship, because it does not say so in the BiH Constitution. In item 7, Article 1 states that existing citizenship, I underline, existing citizenship BiH will be regulated by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the citizenship of every entity that will be regulated by entities under the following conditions. Therefore, the indisputable fact is that we are BiH citizens. It is also an unquestionable fact that the rights and obligations arise from this right and that, in some way, this law today provides for one possible right which does not endanger anyone in any way, and I would therefore suggest that, if, apart from this proposal made by Mr Deretić, the amendment, there is no other amendment, that we, as this assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, approach the voting procedure because this bill deserves, until this moment, all checks have passed and after a one-hour debate, we have received one semi-formal amendment. If it is formal, it would be good for the chairman to formulate it and to approach the vote, because I think it is the only way to confirm one fundamental function of this MP, which is to express the meaning of BiH citizenship and through a public document called passport, not at all entering into a debate that is really inappropriate about what stands, what does not stand, what is taken away, what is behind which ideas, initiatives, because it really reminds it in one way from a brain section that is not very intelligent, because people suggest a law that has exclusive members, or they are not well-organised or they are, as Mrs. Čolo says. You have, we have heard one or two amendments, please, to decide on what is said in the text, and what kind of policy is big, scary, amazing with the idea of BiH citizenship, as a constitutional category of every state and BiH hides behind it, in this regard. We can do that round table, so if we want to analyze what anyone wants to achieve with what law, that's another thing. This law is clear, precise and totally acceptable for adoption. I'd like to hear, because I didn't quite understand these amendments to Mr. Deretić, although they may be useful, to open this discussion, to narrow it down to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4331	Please bring concrete proposals to an end, I think we're going back to a bad debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4332	Since every BiH citizen has the opportunity to have a passport, I do not see here any special reason to introduce a third passport. The place of residence determines its origin, its address, and hence the name of the passport. Please, there are a million citizens who, instead of writing BiH, would like to write Europe. Do you know why? Because with this passport a little bit where you can go without procedures, without asking for visas that last two or three months. If we're going to grant wishes to all groups of citizens and to all citizens, let's go so wide as to grant everyone a wish. I don't understand 195, which is why someone wants something special from what we have here. If anyone lives, there was an explanation that someone who has lived outside for 20 years or, I don't know, lived for 10 years, it doesn't matter, it means that he has more rights than we do living inside BiH. Nationality of BiH is not lost by entering the entity's name on a document called passport. I really don't understand why many people have such an aversion to the name of an entity. The entity is an integral part of BiH. BiH is absolutely complete with its entities. If you don't think so, then even Švajcarska isn't a whole state because it has three cantons, or three entities. So don't manipulate those names anymore. There is no excuse that says there should now be a third passport for the reason that there is a third nation. Is there a third nation in BiH, some third group of BiH citizens? I don't think there is. Anyone can take a passport and, if he doesn't like the name RS, he can take a passport in the Federation of BiH. I don't know, really, I don't see any reason why someone has three passports.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4333	Does anyone have an amendment to this?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4334	I don't consider this law necessary, and that's why I don't have an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4335	We have here in a legal and legitimate procedure come to the Proposal for a Law on Travel, on amendments to the Law on travel documents. As far as I can see in this procedure, no one has given any amendments, no one has challenged the constitutional basis for amending the law and I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4336	We have reports for discussion. There may be amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4337	I didn't want to answer for the replica of my colleague Špirić, because I have something else to say, so now I'm taking the opportunity. I would ask him not to use cruel words, when the chairman did not warn him, which is that he does not tell anyone to seek another country, unless he agrees with something, because we have heard an explanation here, and we also know to read in the Constitution ourselves, that the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law exists. Therefore, when there is a constitutional basis, if we are in favour of a solution that is under this Constitution, based on this Constitution, we are therefore to implement the Constitution. No one balances here now. Here you are for the Constitution, here you are not for the Constitution. For this part of the Constitution is, and for this part you're not. We need to be more patient, more careful with each other, so we don't get into a situation where we can't work from a lot of replicas. I can tell you that I want a passport like this and I'd ask my colleagues not to stop me from having that passport. By wanting a passport like that, I don't force anyone to take it. Whoever wants to have a passport, by the law we've had so far, can keep it. We here do not suggest that the law be abolished and the provisions of the law be deleted, but only to add the possibility that one who wants 196 passports on which entities will not be indicated, that he has the right to do so. That's what the Madrid Declaration and the New York Declaration point to, I guess those obligations mean something. Now I'm going to tell you why I want to have this passport. I'm a citizen of the RS by birthplace. Last year, when I bought out my apartment, I got my convictions and I got my belief in the RS that I was a citizen. By place of residence, for 25 years I have lived in Sarajevo, I have a passport taken out in Sarajevo. Now you're making me share, whether I'm going to extract a passport with a sign of RS, whose citizen I am, or I'm going to take out a passport where I live. The easiest solution for me is to have a BiH passport. Here's a simple explanation. Don't stop me from doing that. Since we insist on suggestions. My suggestion is to pass this law. I think there's a need for him. There are citizens who want such a law, such a solution, and its adoption and its application do not endanger anyone's right. If Suada gives up what she just said, she has the right to take a passport wherever she wants. If someone doesn't want to use this law, they don't have to take it. I would ask that we plead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4338	If there is no one else to discuss, I have one proposal that could be compromised, but as an MP, not as chairman. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the Council of Ministers of BiH has adopted my amendment to the Law on Public Idvise where it is said that the names of BiH, entities and of... competent institutions that can issue public documents should stand there. It's a passport, gentlemen, a public ID. In one place one can, another can't. That's what we heard here quite decidently from Mr. Deputy Minister. You're forgetting that now. Something strange is happening in the state of Denmark, not in the state of Denmark, but in BiH. In one law, gentlemen, we accept, in another we do not accept, there is no consistency. There's a law that regulates all that, etc. I have another suggestion. Here's something we've done today, so far, two arches. As far as I'm concerned, this, Mr. MP, is in accordance with the law, because today we treated two of the same public documents in two ways, I just wanted to say that. Secondly, I have a compromise proposal. I think there should be a third passport, but officials and officials in BiH institutions, holders of diplomatic and official passports, have a passport named BiH. No, I can, but they do, because these gentlemen represent BiH as a state and please be nice.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4339	Thank you very much, Mr. Banjac. I just have to say that, exactly the way we're having a debate on a concrete law, we're questioning that we, in fact, don't want to make a statement about one of the dues, and we have a proposal that's been adopted on the agenda, and I'd just like to draw your attention that we haven't discussed the previous law. As the deputy minister accepted or did not accept anything, there can be no argument in the debate on this document, because we as MPs did not speak out at all about this Law on Public Corrections. 1. A hundred more amendments have arrived which are contrary to the adoption of the BiH Council of Ministers. We will see what all of the BiH Council of Ministers will accept at the end of the next session. So I ask you not to take into account something that we have not discussed as MPs. That was your proposal, your amendment. 197 The BiH Council of Ministers has the right to say yes or no, but that still does not mean that the parliamentary parliament adopted it, please take care of it. That's the first thing. The other thing you used, which I deeply disagree with, which I am totally incompatible with in your approach, there are no better representatives of BiH than BiH citizens. There are no more important representatives than BiH citizens. This story about diplomats, about officials, about officials here who have passports, official, diplomatic, is a story that actually denies what is called the equal right of all citizens in BiH, so that's the difference in our approach in this country. There is no position in which I will sit here and listen to stories of some elected who will have diplomatic passports, special privileges, a special approach, and BiH citizens will not have the same right. You can't bring that policy anywhere, and at least in civil society, which is your goal anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4340	I will not be as bile as my colleague Spahić, but I would like to say to the chairman that after the break we had the situation that the BiH Council of Ministers said would not declare amendments, as more amendments came in the meantime, I then announced my compromise amendment regarding Article 2 which solves the situation and therefore I think it is uninvited to call for an amendment that has not been declared by the Council of Ministers of BiH and an amendment that has not been adopted. But what I said, I went out for a pay phone, what I said from the scene. I ask you not to waste our time as chairman, because you have not received any amendments today, not once the constitutional basis of this law has been disputed and I ask you to put it to the vote, so let me see that mirror given by Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4341	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I really expected today's hour-long break to help us keep the Rules of Procedure. With full legitimate right, allow me, on what basis does my colleague, Ivo Divković, too, mention the Council of Ministers of BiH? I mean, I don't mean to say that it offends me, but I mean that at the very least, it puts me in an awkward position, because I, with the Council of Ministers of BiH, have no form in common nor do I plead so. So it's conscious to throw dust in the eyes of the BiH public, and it's certainly a lot to have these days. I also ask you on behalf of the promoter, I would like to call again on the chair of the PSBiH House of Representatives to perform its role, to bring the debate down to concrete proposals, and I would like, as a proposing, to point out that the motions accept Mrs Alma Čolo's suggestion and that this law, namely that this document is called the Law on Amendments to the Law on Travel document of BiH, and not as the proposal is mentioned here, and I ask you to make a statement about this. Here, the political options are completely clear. You didn't have to come by to have the kind of attitude you have about BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4342	I'm asking you, since you're the promoter, to bring an end to the discussion now, no offense. So, what do we need to plead? What does it say here or what Mrs. Čolo suggested? 198
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4343	What it says, with Mrs. Čolo's suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4344	Write it to the MPs, do you know that you owe it? We maločas asked for amendments to be shared, MP, I beg you, let us have the same approach.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4345	We have absolutely the same approach.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4346	That's exactly what I'm When we were making amendments, Mr. Čaršimamović just said, wait, I don't know what I'm going to plead about, I want it written to me. I also don't know what we're pleading on right now. Here, I have to say, I don't know what to put.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4347	Then take a break, and we'll...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4348	Since it's past time, we can, I suggest it this way. What's your problem? Again you, sir, take it upon yourselves to insult. I really want the same approach. Don't be alive to come back to the same position.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4349	Don't get in the same position. What an insult it is, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4350	You say it's hard to remember a word, aren't you so aware that you insult it with that word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4351	For being offensive to me today.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4352	I have a proposal to get this settled by tomorrow on a legal basis and we'll continue tomorrow and be in shape... Let me finish the proposal, and I'll give you my word. And until I make a proposal. 199
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4353	I ask you nicely that after an hour and a half of the discussion we do not deviate from what we started with. There are clearly defined amendments. There's a clear law that's worth two years. The amendments are addressed to this Act. If the amendments pass, they become an integral part of the Law. What isn't there, gentlemen, clear? What's all this raving about? Chairman, I ask you to put the amendments to the vote once.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4354	What are they, where are they? Do you have them?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4355	We all got them. We've absolutely all got a month. My suggestion is to finish this tonight. I suggest we vote tonight.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4356	Poslaniče Dokić, it's quite clear that these are two things. Legally, it's not right. I guarantee you it's not legal. Here, we have lawyers, we can take a break. This here is the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements, instead of being the Law on Amendments and Supplements, with members precisely, it is a legally unregulated text. And if we're going to do this, I accept that we're voting, but please don't look the other way in similar situations. We'll vote. Is that why we're voting now? Yes, it is. Then stay consistent and keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4357	I don't think there's any reason to raise any tension. Here's the promoter. The promoter said what he accepts from the proposed ones and that's an integral part of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4358	Chairman, don't be offended. I, as a promoter, accept the suggestion, on behalf of Mr. Divković, which Mrs. Alma Čolo made, a representative appreciated here. I'm looking for a ten-minute break so that we can consistently, legally prepare the text. I've got the text and I'll give it to the Service if that break can take ten minutes. In ten minutes, if we can't make a statement tomorrow. I don't want any precedent, any different criteria in the operation and adoption of legal acts, through this, to me strategically important, from a political destination, the Law comes. So I'm asking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4359	Since MPs are willing, I have a feeling that MPs are willing to vote, that if it passes, it enters as you said. No problem, we're not gonna push on that right now, but I'm just saying that in the future we have more flexibility, there's no problem. Let's go vote. 200
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4360	If we can just read the text, because of the stenogram, what's the vote on?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4361	No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4362	The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH. Article 1 In the Law on travel documents of BiH, "the Official Messenger of BiH", number 4/97 is changing and supplementing the Law as follows. At the end of Article 6, a new point 5 is added, which reads: "A person who wants to receive a passport on which, on the front of the cover, below the word BiH, stands an entity sign." Article 2 At the end of Article 7, a new point is added: “The carrier of the diplomatic passport or of the official passport may receive a passport if he wishes, that under the word BiH stands an entity’s inscription”, an explanation as it stands in the text. Thank you. Is there anything else? There isn't. How many are present — 30. I ask the MPs, who is for the proposal of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH? I said, who's in? - 19 Who's against it? - 10 2 abstentions. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 17 from the RS when it's in favour? - 2 Now I'm going to read completely to enter the stenogram. 30 MPs voted - 19 for - 9 against - 2 abstentions by entities - Federation of BiH - 17 for - RS - 2 for the law did not get the necessary entity majority and go to the alignment. This concludes the 11th point of the agenda and concludes today's work. I announce tomorrow's work at ten o'clock. The seat is closed at 6:20 p.m. 201
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4364	Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I am opening an extension of the 16th session and before we move to the agenda, I think it is extremely irresponsible of a number of MPs who do not adhere to the agreement and do not fulfil their parliamentary obligations. Without exaggeration, we have examples of people coming hundreds of miles to attend the session, while others who are several hundred meters away do not attend. Here, we were now put in a position, like the Kolegijum, to interrupt the session. We didn't do it and then they're pouring criticism from all sides. I'm asking you not to do this. I really don't know. We seem to have some nasty chips embedded instead of some organs, so then simply when we start, instead of some organs. I urge the presidents of the parliamentary clubs to solve their problems in the MPs' clubs.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4365	(speaks from the place and you can't hear it.)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4366	We said, Mr. Silajdžić. I've sent it three times, from my office, here, I've sent it to Branko, here it is, and when there are only two men. There were only two of them. Were you one of those?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4367	All you have to say is, we start in half an hour, an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4368	We went, which is very ugly, and we went to the offices to see if she was sitting. I mean, that's really ugly. What is it? It's here. We're moving to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. The law on the Council of Ministers of BiH I ask the President of the Constitutional Commission to take the floor if he wishes. I don't think there's any need, but if he wants to. No, there's no desire. You know about the need to adopt amendments and supplement this law and we have two proposings here, this is the proposal for a law on 202 Council of Ministers, the MPs are Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković and we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers, the legislator of MP Vita Rakić, two more are in the process, but they have not passed the procedure and I cannot put on anything that has not passed the procedure. I propose that, before the opening of the debate, the legislator of the first law submit an introductory presentation. Here you go, Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4369	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in front of you, that is today's proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, which was sent to the parliamentary procedure in November last year. This is an opportunity for Parliament and this House to prevent an evident crisis in the functioning of BiH's joint institutions, by passing such a law, means decisions of the Constitutional Court that have challenged certain provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act. The law is designed to comply with constitutional provisions when it comes to the Council of Ministers of BiH and respects the provisions of the New York Declaration, which stands in the clarification of the law. The law stipulates that the BiH Council of Ministers has six ministries, unlike the formerly convened by three ministries and that is: the foreign ministry, the foreign trade ministry, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Communications and the Ministry of European Affairs. So here are the new ministries, such as the Ministry of European Affairs, the Ministry of Human Rights and the clearly separated Ministry of Finance. It's all about commitment, when it comes to the work of joint institutions. It is particularly important for me to point out that this law provides for the Council of Ministers of BiH as provided for by the Constitution, within the framework of constitutional powers, which has the mandater, the President of the Council, but does not allow majorisation, so I urge you all to read the members of the Law 22, 23 and 26 which have prevented the possibility of majorising and imposing a solution by a possible representative of a nation, so we seem to have fulfilled the basic task and basic objective of the law to obtain an effective Council of Ministers of BiH, whose composition and organisation is in accordance with constitutional provisions, but also to prevent possible majorisations that represent the obstacle, otherwise, in this House when it comes to the adoption of laws and when it comes to the determination of individual deputies of this House. I said the law's been in parliamentary procedure for a long time. Everyone had a chance to read it, see. He is now in the form of a proposal and I do not know, as one of the proposings, that there have been amendments to that law, if there is an amendment, we will be pleased to hear them and see if any text of the law can be upgraded, but above all it is important that today, I would say very seriously, aware of the moment in which we are discussing this law, to discuss this law and possibly prevent a very certain crisis in the functioning of the joint institutions of BiH, if that law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4370	You heard the opening statement of the motion. I'm opening a discussion. Do you want to get in the package? Let's just hear it, 'cause last time we had a different attitude. I don't have anything against 203. Gentlemen, do we want to hear another proposal, so we can discuss it together or separately? Separately. It's a deal. I am opening a discussion under the proposal for a law on the BiH Council of Ministers, proposing MPs Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković. Who's answering for a word?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4371	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, My remark is that this first law, which was submitted by the SDP Sweets Club and the second proposal to amend and supplement the BiH Council of Ministers Act, which was submitted by Mr Vito Rakić, so I would not like to report twice, I will make my remarks now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4372	I ask you to respect the decision, direct only.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4373	The BiH Constitutional Court's decision has established which provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers' Law cease to apply. These provisions include the provision of Article 19. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers found that decisions were taken by consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers. However, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, which proposes SDP MPs' club, also provides for decision-making in the same way in Article 23, means making decisions by consensus. I would just like to point out that this SDP law, in one of its provisions, is not consistent with the BiH Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4374	Since no one answers the word, here, to take the liberty of giving myself, as a messenger, my word. Dear gentlemen, I do not know why certain things are being used for this speaker which are not absolutely correct, because you know that there has been a dispute in the work of the Constitutional Court of BiH, precisely because certain things have been entered in the minutes, which the Court has never adopted and the public of BiH must know that such a situation, which is present in the BiH Constitutional Court, has led to one of the judges of the Constitutional Court of BiH, in the order of the Serb people, resigning, and the other has left the session, which has led to a serious crisis, and this is the issue. It is not true that the Court abolished consensus and parity, or abolished consensus, or abolished parity. I'm asking you to take care of it. There is an official note of the Court of Justice on this matter. I don't want to speak for the Court. The court will say so. Finally, the judges attending the session, and we should not, as the Assembly, use what has proved to be controversial, as it is unacceptable to even go so far as to try to counterfeit BiH Constitutional Court decisions. 204
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4375	Mr. Chairman, you have shared with us the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which we have all received. The same decision was published in the BiH Official Messenger. I don't care about that. I have official documents, which I have here. What you're saying is, I've heard it for the first time and I really don't care. This decision states that Article 19 is to be determined. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers does not comply with the BiH Constitution. Article 19 has two attitudes. Position 1 and Item 2. The position two states that the BiH Council of Ministers makes decisions by consensus of those members present. In paragraph 2, point 2, in fact, it is provided for how it is to decide if a consensus is not reached. If the BiH Constitutional Court wanted only Article 2 or 2, I don't know how it was defined, to declare it unconstitutional, it would clearly specify it in its decision, as it specified for Article 21(3), and in Article 21, point 1 and 2 remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4376	I have a replica. I'm really sorry to have to talk right now, because I don't want to take time for you or for myself, but the fact is one thing. If we're going to do this, of course we're going to have to take this point off the agenda until we get a record from the last session of the BiH Constitutional Court, where the Council of Ministers has been discussed, and some decisions have been made. So they were brought in, but they didn't come to us, and we can't, based on what we know, surely it's not what you say it is anymore, that we're discussing here right now. We're bringing the opposite to the BiH Constitutional Court. I'm not mad. You have a record in front of you, but I'm just saying. Shall we wait, I'll ask it myself? Are we going to wait because we know that decision has been made on this matter? Nothing more, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4377	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, guests, we have had a long procedure until we reach this bill that is now on the agenda, as well as this second proposal, which I hope, we will consider, too, today. We are talking about a law relating to the BiH Council of Ministers and it is quite clear that we are talking, and based on what we have received, as MPs, as the minutes of the previous BiH Constitutional Court session, and in this context, Mrs Čola has the full right, to draw attention that this is the only one that has arrived, an official act by the BiH Constitutional Court to the BiH Parliament, the other there is no. As for the news report on the three-day session of the BiH Constitutional Court. We can sit down now so you can give us copies of the news reports and from the press conference of the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH. That is not the way, it cannot be decided on that basis, nor would it be good based on what journalists have registered to make any decisions, and I think it is quite correct that the BiH Parliament gets decisions, I am undermining the minutes, and as the debate progressed, that is another thing. But decisions to come to the BiH Parliament's agenda. I don't think it will be possible to avoid this, as it is expected that the BiH Parliament will initiate the procedure concerning the adoption of the Law on the BiH Council of Ministers. The BiH presidency is expected and is expected from the BiH Council of Ministers. All institutions that are competent to come forward with appropriate legal proposals are expected. Today we have two 205 bill proposals on the agenda. It should probably now open a debate on the issues raised by Mrs. Čolo, based on the motionary's statement. I'd like to hear what Mrs. Čolo said. To conduct a discussion in the context of what is on our agenda and with the materials that we have at our disposal. If we can hear Mr. Divković and Mr. Tokić's position, that is, what Mrs. Alma Čolo has drawn attention to, so that we can conduct the dialogue further.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4378	I think it would be good if the motionary took his word now.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4379	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, MPs, co-worker Divković presented the specifics and a brief explanation of the provisions of the BiH Council of Ministers Act. In the process of passing this law, we had different consultations, wanting to provide the constitutionality of this proposal, and also wanting to provide a government that will really function, an executive body that will function as an effective executive body and which will be able to face growing problems in BiH. We stand on the view that the provisions of this law are in accordance with the BiH Constitution and I do not accept these insinuations of the BiH Constitutional Court's minutes and decisions under a completely different law than this law. If we want to run this kind of polemic, she heard the words, because I didn't really expect Alma to have her now, based on the Book, on the second law. I will appeal to Mr. President Kasim Begić's public statement, who said he had carefully reviewed this law, the bill, and said he was in line with the constitution. That his opinion is that it is in line with the BiH Constitution. However, given that we have a Rules of Procedure and that we have decided on many breaks that we will work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that we specifically go with amendments and proposals, that we do not conduct fictitious debates aimed at destroying the possibility that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, after months of decision-making, solves itself the problem that is currently on our back, on our responsibility, which is to pass the Law on the Council of Ministers, on the basis of which this existing situation could be overcome, that we have an illegal government, or a particular danger from the constitutional crisis, in terms of the existence of this very important executive body of BiH. I'd use this call here if I could just say our position on the consensus. To build the BiH Council of Ministers, pre-thinking that mutual ministers are revoted, pre-building the concept that no consensus will be reached is simply for anyone who wants a serious BiH Council of Ministers, very unserious. Not that there should be full agreement between the members of the BiH Council of Ministers and members of the government from different peoples, but from their own people. No government in the world makes decisions with a permanent revote. We here need to talk, not just about the national consensus in the BiH Council of Ministers, even less about how much political consensus is needed. Do we want to re-establish the BiH Council of Ministers, where different members of the BiH Council of Ministers will sit completely comfortable, with no responsibility for the performance of the single body. I don't think that's right, and I think 206 that the start of this political debate shows the immaturity of political structures that have the majority in this House, to take seriously access to the creation of a true Bosnian-Herzegovina government, i.e. the Bosnian-Herzegovina Council of Ministers. A political consensus in the functioning of any Western European government, including BiH, should exist. Of course, this growing national tension should also take into account that the BiH Council of Ministers, in the ruling coalition, when created, has its concept and acts uniquely on these grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4380	Mr. Tokić is really right when he says he didn't expect me to say something about this speaker I heard or what someone said. I didn't really say it, nor did I think of it. I'm not interested in the Constitutional Court of BiH. I have an official document, which is the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH, which I am talking about and which states that Article 19. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers does not comply with the BiH Constitution. That same article in the 19th was reviewed in your law, paragraph 1 was also re-painted in article 23 of your law. I didn't say anything about what someone said and didn't say whether it was an integral part of some record or not. The decision of the BiH Constitutional Court is an official document published in the BiH Official Messenger and I am talking about it, Mr. Tokić. It says here that Article 19 does not comply with the Constitution of BiH, and this article is transferred to your Article 23 of your law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4381	I would really ask for seriousness in this approach, regardless of the attempt to replace the argument with a bunch of words. The BiH Constitutional Court has reached a decision regarding the BiH Council of Ministers Act for which you, Mrs. Čolo, and your coalition, voted and possibly that Article 19th, and I do not know which members are against the Constitution. I, as a promoter, say that an existing solution in this law, and therefore I give you the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH, publicly spoken on BiH television, and I would ask you to focus your attention on this law. Of course, your motivation, your desire to build a Council of Ministers of BiH on some grounds that cannot function objectively in BiH, remains your political commitment, but act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and do not talk to me about Article 19. I don't have anything here in article 19 about what you're talking about, and I don't have any decision of the BiH Constitutional Court or opinion on this text of the law. There is a text of a law that has been in the process for months, which we have offered, trying to resolve an illegal situation, delaying this situation to resolve, among other things, thanks to you and persistently calling on you, as a proposing, to propose amendments. You can say that you are against this member, it will not surprise me at all, as this other party in the same ruling coalition will say that it is for some other members and as you will argue before this election, and once again after the election, vote and sit in the same BiH Council of Ministers, but please, and ask the chairman, you are giving concrete arguments. You can't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4382	I beg you, MP, in accordance with yesterday's conclusion, or answer specifically, do not try to share the story. 207
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4383	I am specifically trying to say that after this empty story which, in principle, did not go in the direction of the proposal, I ask that concrete proposals be submitted to the text of the Law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4384	You could've just said the last one and it would've been enough. Here you go, who's still reporting for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4385	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think there are a lot of good solutions in this text of the SDP Act and it could be accepted as a whole that there are no Chapter 5 defined in the way defined by Articles 22 to 26 and which are objectively, of course. in our court and on the constitutional and political sides, it can dispute. In that sense, I support what Mrs. Čolo has brought out. For this reason, I am not prepared to vote for this version of the Law, I would only point to one inconsistency compared to Articles 12 and 18. Article 12, the sixth ministry is listed as the Ministry of European Affairs. Article 18 states the Ministry of Relations with the EU. So it remains a kind of dubiosis that the ministry is actually concerned with, therefore, whether the Ministry of European Affairs or the Ministry of Relations with the EU, which seems to mean something, so to say, is a more limited one approach in implementing this segment of foreign policy. Well, it would be good if the Proposer claims that the law be adopted to bring these two members in line. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4386	Who's still answering for the discussion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4387	Dear colleagues, Mr. Jahić's intervention is quite correct because the ministry of European affairs stands up and stands up, so Article 18 says the EU's Ministry of Relations. I think that needs to be fixed, that suggestion can be accepted. As regards the other discussions on this speaker, objections and suggestions, and I will, in the capacity of one of the motions, call on the Rules of Procedure, i.e., the chairman, I would ask you to ask all those who have really proposed that the amendments work on the law, possibly in writing, to see exactly what they are proposing, etc., and then to declare ourselves by these proposed amendments, because Tokić seems to have responded to this intervention whether Article 23 has a constitutional basis, by making it very clear and loud that in consultations on this law, and even in consultations with the President of the Constitutional Court of BiH, there has been an understanding that all the members of the Law are in accordance with the Constitution, including Article 23. Therefore, our position, at this time, on the principle of whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not, is that Article 23 is in line with the Constitution. We would pray that the amendment works exactly what it wants to change, in which way, etc., then we will see further whether or not to define ourselves. 208
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4388	I want to inform you that no amendment has reached me. You know, everyone's read the Rules of Procedure and there's no need to warn. Who's still answering for the discussion? There are no reports. I'm concluding a discussion on this point, of course, sub-point a. Since there are no amendments, I cannot ask the promoter if they have accepted anything except what Mr. Divković said. I ask you to determine how many MPs there are in the O.R. - 23. Who is for this Proposal for a Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH – 7 Ask for new, come on, count well – 9 Service, please, how much is it? - 9 Who's against it? Abstention 14 Does anyone have any objections to the voting process? There isn't. I find that this law did not receive the necessary majority in the first round and that it was not accepted. We move to sub-point b) Sub-point b) Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, Proposer of MP Vita Rakić Please submit an introductory presentation. Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH found some of the provisions of the existing Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH unconstitutional. Since we did not agree to this law within a certain period, the BiH Constitutional Court has been sitting these days, or to be more precise, since January 28th and annulled some provisions that will make it more clear exactly what it is and we will get it these days. Knowing all of this, I proposed this proposal on 12.12.1999 and, when drawing up this proposal, I was determined whether to work on a new law or to do a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. My commitment was to propose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH which you received in the material another 12.12.1999. It is clear to all of us that some of the provisions in this law were a compromise of a certain political moment so that the first BiH institutions could be established in 1996. The political situation in BiH is very complex, but I think it is much better than it was in 1996 and has made significant progress in many areas in BiH. The trust gained between the two entities, the constituent peoples and the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina can be improved and developed with full equality, which means that the national parity is fully realised – a consensus in decision-making in all BiH institutions. I know this is a difficult way to go than to go for a simple decision, but it is certainly a more stable way to achieve a political trust and to be able to build relations in BiH in a stable manner. This particularly convinces us because individual officials from 209 joint bodies have a hard time coming forward on their behalf, on behalf of their party, and in the role of certain functions that they take in common bodies and do not use what must be used to adopt common positions on that body and that they can then only step forward on the basis of such opinions. Therefore, since this is the case, and certain solutions in this law are given so that they have to limit their independence, voting or, rather, majorisation at a certain point, in order to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, as far as this law is concerned, I have kept the same structure of the BiH Council of Ministers, because I believe that increasing the Council of Ministers, at the moment that we have barely provided the funds that are needed, and extending for twice the number of ministries or for any ministry, that at this point it is inappropriate and that it is sufficient for this moment to implement only changes and supplement this law as I have suggested. And that's why I suggest you pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4391	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ambassadors, I really appreciate the activity of counterpart Rakić to propose this Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. I think it is a responsible approach to action in this parliament, to try to resolve these existing, BiH and central institutions, a very difficult situation. I would have two amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. I'll tell them at the pay phone, and I can rephrase later. When it comes to the chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers, two co-ordinators, in the extension of this, would be a formulation in Article 3: "in charge of European affairs and the protection of human rights". So that the coordinators who have a function here, so in that period have such a one function. As for Article 3 of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, when it comes to the chairman and his rotation every 24 months, I believe that this is an important violation of the term of office, so whoever elects, who proposes members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and since, according to the Constitution, the chairman has a clear mandate, so he appoints members of the Council and sends them to the House of Representatives. And here I would ask the answer to the question, does this mean that the rotational mandate is changing within these three? Because I'm afraid that unless it changes every eight months, we are entering a kind of command, which would be contrary to the BiH Constitution. So I'd like to ask for this clarification. Understanding that BiH's chairmanship of the BiH Council of Ministers is rotating faster, given the existing consolidation of relations and the still undefined mandate of the PSBiH House of Representatives, in the sense that he has been for two years, he is not four years, as according to the constitution in regular circumstances. So I'd like an explanation for this member. Therefore, the chairperson's office in the context of the term of office. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else want to talk? Since there are no reports... [[department requested]] A five-minute break. P A U Z A
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4393	Gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I suggest we continue our work. I'm asking the president of the club who asked for a break to report. Mr. Špirić, the session has begun.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4394	Ladies and gentlemen, since there was only one proposal from Mr. Tokić, there was no other proposal, I will give the following interpretations and what I think is possible. First, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers once again when it is being appointed, has to be appointed by the BiH presidency and will confirm it to all ministers, or may choose some new ministers. So, to be clear, that's the way it's supposed to be. As regards your second proposal, Ministers of Coordinators, in addition to other jobs, coordinate jobs for European integration and human rights – did I say well – I think it is acceptable and can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4395	Thank you. Question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4396	Mr. Chairman, I would like, since the representatives of the BiH Presidency are here, too, to hold a debate that could bring a certain result today and in relation to the proposals we have heard, the first proposal that we have voted on, and the second one that is now, practically, ahead of the vote, to hear an opinion, if, of course, formulated, by the members of the BiH Presidency representing, in this case, Mr. Raguž and g. Trnka, given that they are competent under the Constitution to make a proposal. I would like to, as an MP, since the representatives here are present, to get information from them. I think that would be good. I would pray that there is no vote in this matter, but to ask for a simple statement about the proposal we heard today. We voted on one today, and the other one we're talking about right now. That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4397	That's nice. I just have to make it right. Business is not exactly what you said and make it quite clear. We can hear the gentlemen, there's no dispute to hear them, but it's no obligation at all. It's not a question, if they want a word, they'll get a word. 211
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4398	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I would really like to invite all MPs to try to reach a solution and overcome the current crisis of the BiH Council of Ministers. And in that context, I would suggest a suggestion. Thank you for your explanation for article 6. I would only suggest that the rotation every eight months be consistent with the rotations of the presidency of the PSBiH House of Representatives, given that in the next elections, probably already in the next parliamentary elections, there will be no mandate of two years, and we are making this law more permanent than this period to here, that if the proposal is ready, it should be made clear, therefore, that the replacement with the chairman of the PSBiH House of Representatives will be brought forward, i.e. with one third of the mandates of the BiH House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4399	So he doesn't come from the same constitutive people?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4400	Yeah. And not to be tied up for eight months, but to be tied to the term of office. It is now eight months if the term of office of the House of Representatives is 24 months. If you need a break, maybe you should...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4401	The Proposer accepts that remark as well. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss it? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on this item on the agenda. [[From place: Can we take five minutes to consult?]] A five-minute break. /P A U Z A/ Dear guests, I suggest we continue our work. I'd like a representative of the club who asked for a break to brief us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4403	The chairman, we, as the SDP Representatives' Club, asked in writing for the text to be delivered to the Proposer, since the Proposer in his discussion accepted certain suggestions and I don't think we should be hasty, to wait for this, given that this is a very important law, to deliver it to all MPs, as written material. Let's not stand down, like you said, and we don't have any different criteria.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4404	Well, we did something yesterday when there was a vote on this bill. Here, I don't mind, but if you can read the man, since he's going to enter the stenogram, it's just a written document. Sir, if we vote, which is an integral part of the stenogram, there can be nothing else. [[from place speaks]] And that insight into the stenogram can be achieved by all of us. And I don't see any reason, although I accept if... Do you accept reading this in a stenogram so we don't wait? We still have work to do, I think... You accept. Those who asked accept. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4405	On the basis of Mr. Tokić's proposal, the following was accepted: Article 3 after "two ministers of coordinators", continues "which, in addition to other jobs, will co-ordinate the area of human rights and European integration". Article 6 here states: A representative of each constitutive people is appointed to the chair every eight months – etc. That's where we went to this two-year term, 24 months since we had, so one-third of the mandate. So, in one third of the chairman's seat, it is listed here "every eight months a representative of the other constituent people in BiH is appointed from the co-ordinator's order, so that within 24 months all three constituent peoples in BiH perform the post". There's your proposal to rephrase the following, Tokić. Are you telling me what your proposal is?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4406	One-third of the term? So, "one-third of the term of office of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives", and below -- "making sure that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary House of BiH are not from the same people". Is that okay? Thank you. We heard. How many MPs are present? Twenty-six present. I ask the MPs, who is for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH ministries, with the changes and additions you have just heard. Who is it, then, for? 16. Against? There isn't. Keeping 10. We vote on entities because the law has got the required majority. From Republika Srpska, who's in favour? Not Bog's right. [[whispers]] Eight. Thank you very much. Republika Srpska needs a majority. From the Federation of BiH – who's in favour? Eight. There is not enough majority from the Federation of BiH. The law's going to agree. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4408	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, considering it very important that the PSBiH House of Representatives resolve the current situation, I propose to the PSBiH House of Representatives the following conclusion: For the process of harmonisation of this law to be included, in addition to the College that goes by the Rules of Procedure, representatives of all legislators and the Law amending and supplementing the laws that we had today at the parliamentary session and which are in the procedure, here I am referring to the proposals of the laws already addressed to the parliamentary procedure – the SDA, respectively, Mr Genjac, as I recall, in order to reach the solution of this very important issue in such a wider circle. Because I think we have a chance to, as PSBiH's House of Representatives, resolve the existing situation. If it takes writing, I can formulate it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4409	There's no need. I accept to attend, here, the College is agreed to attend, now we have consulted. So, they attend Halid Genjac, as the proposer of one, because it was delivered, Mr. Havel as the promoter of another, both Tokić and Rakić. So, here, we've already defined. One second, I'll give you my word. So, Tokić, Rakić, Genjac definitely attends Havel. But the decision will be made by the College, it's not disputed. It's not coming into question. Here, MP Špirić wants to say something.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4410	Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of alignment, the Rules of Procedure should be followed first and foremost. If this is going to be a wider debate again, I think all parties they have and who don't have MP clubs should be invited. That's one thing, then, that nobody shuts down. But I think that the Rules of Procedure should be strictly followed, because this proposal is going to be agreed and should be applied by a clear Rules of Procedure. That's my suggestion, then. And if they're going to go to some wider college, then I'm asking the others to call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4411	I have a suggestion. As chairman, I request a meeting with both legislators of today's laws for five minutes. /P A U Z A/ Dear gentlemen, I suggest we continue our work. Since there were more suggestions here, I've called the promoters, so we don't go to work. Here, I suggest that Mr. Rakić make his point. Because, however, it wouldn't be right to go into work outside the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4413	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have today had one constructive approach to the approximation of two laws. I, especially here, must thank the representatives of SDP 214 who, with their constructive approach to this law, have given certain improvements. I therefore believe that in the process of harmonising this law, in addition to representatives of the SDP who had their own law in the ordinary procedure, we will consult others and decide at the next session on the fate of this law, according to the business procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4414	Thank you. Please, I've concluded the discussion. Please, MP, will you plead, will you give up your earlier proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4415	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the SDP voted, with additions and with the approach of these two draft legislative projects related to the BiH Council of Ministers, with the aim of overcoming the existing blockades. We're standing on that course. Of course, we believe that the solutions that we have made in our proposal are best, but at this point I think it is very important to come out of the current constitutional crisis, out of paralysis, and in this context, not wanting further debate, believing that, in the co-operation of all parliamentary parties and in the co-operation of these two proposings, we can adopt the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and I am giving up the proposal to form some special bodies, we will certainly be able to overcome this in mutual, interparliamentary co-operation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4416	My goal, as chairman, was just to talk to them, not to go into something that, the commission is a commission, it's completely autonomous and I asked them to drop the proposal that they come to the commission. We can't accept that because I, as chairman, couldn't accept it. That was the goal and to say that there are no occult stories, because there are simply stories that respect the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to the 13th point of the agenda. Ad.13. The law on holidays and holidays in BiH We have in this item the draft law on the holidays and holidays of BiH, proposed by Sejfudin Tokić and Ivo Divković under a), and b) the draft law on holidays and holidays of BiH, is proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH. I would like to ask the first proposer to submit the opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4417	The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, the Social Democratic Party has already been there for almost a year, has initiated a debate on the BiH holiday law. Today we have a debate on the draft of this text, so we have after a lot of debates in the media, for the first time to discuss it at the right place, in a measuring place, and in this context we have proposed a draft of the holiday law, which includes four holidays that would be celebrated at the level of BiH and had the character of holiday 215 at the level of the BiH state. These are, in addition to January 1st and 2nd, May 1st, the Festival of Work, May 1st and 2nd, December 14th, the Day of conclusion of the Dayton Peace Agreement and November 25th, the Day of the ZAVNOBIH meeting. We stand at the point that around these four holidays, there can be a minimum of consensus and the need for us to have these shared holidays at BiH level, starting with the assumption that so far the differences have been shown in many ways. We stand at the point that this law should not involve religious holidays, simply because we do not consider the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to be responsible for what is a religious holiday, which is not. On the other hand, by sticking to the principles of secularity, wanting religious holidays to be celebrated separately from national holidays, and given the greater number of confessions in BiH and such inability to declare any religious holiday as a state holiday, we stand at the view that the draft law should not be entered into this problem. It was in the media, as well as in some other proposals, the day of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the day of the initialling. We stand at the point that it is more logical that the day of the signing, as the official date of this Peace Agreement, is taken as a holiday. However, we do not insist on it, because the essence is de facto similar, not to say the same, and in this context, we are prepared, if there is political will from the PSBiH House of Representatives and to change the draft of this law. They were different opinions on November 25th, so I must say even within this home and in the context of treatment of different status. Whether it's Statehood Day, as we have in the media insistence, or whether it's the session day of the ZLAVNOBIH. We, as legislators, underline here, as Ivo Divković and Sejfudin Tokić, as representatives. We propose that this be treated as ZAVNOBIH Day, an uncontested, important date for BiH when, in my personal opinion, the BiH state did not form. It is something that has been verified in that place as one formula that has found its place in the Dayton Peace Agreement, and if you want in the BiH Constitution, which is the BiH state formula as three equal peoples and all its citizens. In this context, we believe that this holiday should be marked as the day of ZLAVNOBIH. We are at our disposal, of course, to eventually correct this position and possibly that day, November 25, will also be declared Statehood Day or some other treatment. I think it is very important that the PSBiH House of Representatives, in this debate, try to show the need for agreement and that we do not slave in this debate with some daily political antagonisms and that we make a decision here, that we have not taken it anywhere before, and that we are able to take the strength to find a common position in this matter very publicly, and therefore we have changed this law into a draft, therefore, in principle, on the basis of all the proposals put forward. As promoters, we stand at the service of trying to find the maximum consensus and common for this high home.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4418	We heard.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4419	Mr. Chairman, on this proposal, I would just like to comment on one of the dates mentioned here, that's December 14th, if I followed well 216, that's the date of the signing of the General Peace Agreement. As far as I'm concerned, of course we can put different things about the Peace Dayton Agreement, but I think the suggestion that one such is called a holiday of peace, or the holiday of ending all that BiH has been through, this General Peace Agreement, would naturally and logically be tied to the birthplace of such an agreement, it's Dejton. So it's another date. There are several reasons why the Paris Agreement and the agreement would not be the basis for the adoption of a state holiday in BiH. Because you know of an international political will and the consolidation of international political relations, as well as internal relations in BiH and in the region, it has made it possible for the Dayton Peace Conference to be scheduled, and that day could normally be preferred as a day compared to what was an act in Paris. If the promoters were willing to, in this sense, be, as Mr Tokić said, with the explanation that I have given, ready to commit to this date of the Dayton Peace Agreement, it is, as far as I think it is, I think that we would create in this procedure the assumption that, of course, indisputable holidays such as the calendar New Year's Day, Labor Day and November 25th, we would respect this proposal. On the occasion of this discussion about what you have suggested, which is a re-discussion on another proposal on holidays and holidays religious in BiH, it is somehow written there in the second law by Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think that we can also approach in the same way as approaching attitudes that will allow for a clear definition of the position of this home according to these proposals of the law. Now that there's one particular thing I'd like to ask only the proposings to determine, would you be willing to correct their proposal in this way, and then we'll continue the discussion on other issues.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4420	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I must first say that I am pleased that this law has finally come in this form to Parliament's agenda and I think that BiH, after all these years, has earned the adoption of the BiH holiday law. The other thing I'm saying is that this holiday law is also the one that will come under the next point, the product of a fairly broad public debate among intellectuals, political structures, in the media, and that this is one of the laws that, I would say filtered came to the meeting of the PSBiH House of Representatives. Thirdly, what I want to say is that the draft law of the two MPs, Tokić and Divković, is consistent and I particularly want to emphasise the support for the proposal for a decision on the 25th November state holiday, the Statehood Day of BiH, and the relationship between the two dates mentioned here, the Day of Statehood on one and the day of completion or signing of the Peace Agreement on the other, shows one logical link between BiH, as a state, continuity in various internal forms that are the fruit of history in BiH. In particular, I would like to make two suggestions: 1. I think that the promoters might, firstly, suggest that, given that the promoter himself said that there is no significant difference in terms of November 21st, as the day of the conclusion of the Peace Agreement, or the day of the initialling. I would support Mr Spahić's proposal that the day of the completion of the Dayton Peace Agreement, as an essential 217 point of the end of the war in BiH, because signing in Paris was a sort of technical point of completion, that date be the date that will be in this law, that is one thing and two. Since it has been formulated in another way, I suggest that it be very precisely formulated as a peace day in BiH, that is, a day of peace. My proposal is November 21st, as a day of peace, to propose that he accepts it, and then this law would be acceptable, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4421	Madam Chairman, fellow MPs, since this is about the bill's proposal, I would like to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4422	It's a draft.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4423	Okay, well, it doesn't matter that much, so the point is what I'm saying. As far as this law is concerned, let me inform you, I speak on my personal behalf and on behalf of the electoral base that I contacted about this bill. Article 1, as proposed, on Article 1, I am making an amendment, making an observation. It is acceptable, the holidays of BiH are New Year's Eve, May 1st, Work Holiday, and then after that 21st November, the day of the BiH Framework Peace Agreement, so I disagree with fellow Kadić's proposal that he be called the Day of Peace and put the point there. So, I leave out November 25th, the day of the first session of ZAVNOBIH, and the reason is because I believe this date has nothing to do with the Dayton BiH. It is clear that after November 25, 29th and Yugoslavia, which we have no reason to mention here today, and these two dates were closely connected and conditioned, the 25th of November was conditioned on November 29th. Analoguely, I agree with this how many days to celebrate, but analoguely so should the other members leave out this holiday. I am also inclined to support the view that religious holidays do not enter into this law, that they are not regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4424	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I also think it is very important that BiH as a state comes to a holiday that will be marked throughout BiH and I agree, of course, with the SDP's proposal that religious holidays be left out of this law, of course, in favour of that thesis of the separation of the church from the state and I don't think this should be defined by this legislative project. But what I would like to show my reserve or different views is that BiH's state holiday, essentially, would be a state holiday and that every single person would experience it as a state holiday, it must be voluntarily accepted without the possibility of a different view of that 218 holiday. I'm afraid that if we get to some, and I suppose that's the consolidation of the relationship between the forces and this parliament, that we won't come, I advocate the principle that BiH comes to the national holidays, the ones that we agree on. So, it's New Year's and May 1st that it can be BiH's national holidays and I don't think there's anyone need to slow down, and that what luck it would be so far would be BiH's national holidays, if it wasn't going in the package. But what can be controversial, and what I suppose, to be honest with you, is November 21st, which is proposed here to be a day of peace. Somehow my day of peace, whether it means the rest of 365 days, the days of war. Or we will record the days of the war, what war, all of these are things, and November 21st is undeniable to me the day of BiH's statehood. At that time, all agreed, a domestic political headquarters, with the help of the international community, to verify BiH, as defined by the Constitution in Article 1, and I think there is no need to resist that date to be the date of BiH's statehood. That's what I absolutely agree with. I do not agree that it is called the peace date, but the day of BiH's statehood. As far as this SDP proposal is concerned, the DRAFT Day to be marked under the name of the DRAFT DAY, therefore, that neither statehood nor... that is the matter to be discussed. I think it is undeniable that on November 21st, so you only remember the debate which was at the time of Mr Holbruk BiH's visit, when the BiH presidency members said it was statehood day, that they were lucky that the state was created, when the citizens of BiH thanked the citizens of Dayton, when, at the very least, the celebration in BiH began, now it's not a day of statehood, it's a day of peace. I am not for such an unfair concept and for those who participated in creating this document and creating peace in BiH. So, I suggest that BiH's statehood day be November 21st, which is probably what we're different about, and since it's about the draft, I guess at the next session, when it comes to the proposal, we'll have a chance to declare ourselves, either in the package or individually, that BiH will reach national holidays.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4425	Replica, Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4426	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first about the peace holiday. You know, it's very important to me, as a man and as someone who shares a World Peace Day, which is early in the year, you know that this holiday is celebrated, it's a universal World Peace Day, and the first one is celebrated as such, and it's accepted as a World Peace Festival and it's understood, in January 1st. During these New Year's holidays, World Peace Day is also marked. That's what I'd like to say to you, that it's one general human need, it's also one fundamental right, just like all the others we're talking about. So it's one universal thing, like the Day of Work on which nothing is disputed. I would like another occasion, for your discussion, Mr Špirić, when you said that this holiday on November 21st, which we understood you were agreeing to, that this Dayton Conference should be marked as an important community holiday in BiH. To say that, indeed, in the Dayton Peace Agreement, between 1 November and 21 November 1995, the first member of the BiH Constitution, which defines the 219th position of BiH and says that the Republic of BiH, whose official name will now be BiH, will continue its legal existence under international law as a state with an internal structure, modified, within certain existing internationally recognised borders. It will remain a UN member state and can retain or apply as BiH for membership within the system and other international organisations. Therefore, the BiH state has been officially recognised as a BiH state, under a certain name, admission to the UN, it is an indisputable international organisation of the highest authority. She respected all the historical reasons that were respected both by the vote and by the UN's decision in BiH's bid as states. So I would like to say that, within the state holiday of BiH, we can celebrate a holiday called the Dayton Conference, a peace-making, it's one natural thing, which cares about some consensus still with international balance and interests associated, celebrating as some other peace agreements are celebrated in our former Yugoslavia. What I would like to say is that BiH, as a political independent entity, is as an independent state according to the Constitution that has been ratified in the Dayton Peace Agreement and where we are resting, as the BiH Parliament, is about a continuity of the state that is undeniable. It is not the creation of a BiH state, it says exactly in Article 1. What is it and what is the nature of the peace agreement. It's not without reason written in the first plan, not to remind ourselves. It's my view that with regard to the discussion that's been opened...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4427	MP, it's been three minutes. Did you hear me well? I'm interrupting the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4428	To stay on the original proposal of the SDP gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4429	On the grounds of this law and discussion, we can open up major issues, and it looks like it will open, according to what Ibrahim Spahić has just said, and let it open. I would once again like to congratulate those who have been able to link BiH's historic dates, so that after one date they put the words of BiH's statehood day, and after the second date, I suggest that they put for November 21st in an extension or a day of peace or a holiday of peace. Replica is to Mr Špirić, because cartoonization, a day of peace with a remark that then other days of unrest or days of war, at the same time, Mr Špirić is coming to the contrary because he accepts a holiday of work indisputable date, which means that the rest of the days are not working. So caricature in this case is not a strong side, if we want to get to the law, especially knowing that there is a Thanksgiving in some states in the United States, and that doesn't mean that there are other days of ingratitude. In this regard, instead of my proposal a day of peace, if it can't pass, I suggest that it be formulated as a holiday of peace, if it's more acceptable. In any case, I believe that from the name of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH, I draw my conclusion that on 21 November we declare such a holiday.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4430	All right, Rasime, let's just stick to it, so we don't give each other a lecture.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4431	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just one correction to the wrong quote of MP Špirić. On behalf of the BiH presidency, I can state with full responsibility that at the BiH presidency session, attended by Ambassador Holbruk, no concept of statehood day for November 21st was used, as the day the Peace Agreement for BiH was initialled. Therefore, these two terms were not, this term was not related to the concept of the day of statehood and was never used in that sense. By the way, the BiH Presidency has discussed the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications and that the BiH presidency has made certain suggestions on this law. At that time, it was unanimously decided by the BiH presidency and supported on November 25th as the Day of Statehood of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4432	Replica, Špirić and Rađević, MP Malkić, were at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4433	It's a replica or a curved quote, anyway. Because of these false, black allegations, the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade has also suffered, because of the misstatement, but here is why I have no intention of creating a cartoon out of serious things, it is not really my intention, but here, quickly my colleague Rasim Kadić and I will agree that, for example, November 21st will be Thanksgiving, here and I agree with that, that it will be Thanksgiving. Because he said there are Thanksgivings. I absolutely agree that on November 21st, the day the Dayton Peace Agreement, which calmed BiH's passion, broke the war, verified BiH, as its representatives, with the help of the international community, agreed first to be a Thanksgiving, and that what Mr. Ibro Spahić said had an international peace day. All international holidays I accept BiH marks. International Peace Day, but what we disagree on, which may be conducted by various debates at BiH level, and we may be the introduction or product of the BiH political environment, is the date of statehood, but come on, what we agree to come up with is part of a national holiday that will willingly be accepted throughout BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4434	I'm begging you, it was a replica and it's been, like, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4435	The replica, Mr. Kadić, is not a replica in a loud sense, but a clean conversation, a deal, in principle, that one day it's called a day of peace, I think it's really okay. But if you suggest that on November 21st in BiH, between 221 others it is called a day of peace, then I don't think it can simply be because it doesn't fit the facts and the truth. Because for a number of BiH citizens, on November 21st 1995, the war did not stop and peace did not begin. If you ask the citizens of the Sanh Most, the Lower Wacouf, you'll see that on the 21st of November, the bloodshed has just begun, so I don't think this date can bear the name of a day of peace.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4436	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I will present an opinion, i.e. the Commission's report, which also discussed two draft laws on religious holidays in BiH, and the debate was about as similar as here, with no offensive tones on either side. After the debate, the Commission unanimously took the view that the BiH holiday law should be passed and adopted by such a law. Furthermore, the Commission did not have a single position and did not discuss the content of the law. That's the Commission's position. My personal opinion is this, on the draft of these laws. I absolutely agree that state holidays must and should have their names, so among other things, New Year's, maybe we can call it something different. January 1st, let it stand like that, not New Year's Eve. Also, I believe that 21.11. or the holiday of peace, or the day of paraphrase of the Dayton Agreement, should have the name of a day of peace, or a holiday of peace, for the reason that we should not forget what kind of whiteness we were in and what was happening to us, regardless of who it all irritated or touched. I also advocate that the draft of these laws must and should stand in the manner in which national holidays are marked, and also the way religious holidays are marked in BiH, so that there is no possible colour in certain areas.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4437	Dear colleagues, we are pleased that this law has brought considerable attention. I will remind you that we put this law in procedure 7.6 last year, after that being put into the procedure, MP Kadić noticed it, there was a rather interesting debate that we followed in the media and round tables, etc., and in the very concept of the bill we went after that both the definitions of the law and the dates we try to be less annoying, or try to come, and we all agree that there should be a law on holidays and holidays in this country that, and what Mr Špirić says, will be, if not by consensus, and what is largely accepted by the citizens of BiH as a whole. That's why we've been putting the names of these you have in the bill, and we've always stressed, and I'm stressing that now, that we're staying open, very open to agreements on a possible change in the term of the holiday and, clearly, around the date itself. However, from this general debate that is being held here, we are pleased that, mainly, the dates do not dispute, the practical names of certain holidays are being disputed, so we are very much in the mood that Mr Spahić's suggestions regarding November 21st, or November 14th, instead of being signed in Paris agreement, to be the date of the holiday, we absolutely do not dispute and I see that, more or less, they have not disputed, but it has been raised over the name. When it comes to this law of ours, I am also pleased that it has caused a reaction, it seems to me, the Council of Ministers of BiH which has proposed, here, here, here, at the next point, we will have the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which is very important and these two laws are quite complementary, I must say except in this section when it comes to religious holidays, and I think 222 can, since our law is also in the form of a proposal, come to a quality common law that we will all adopt. I expect, and as a proposer, I promise to make all these suggestions, etc. We will be very open to discussion and agreement, but I expect that Parliament will actually come to a holiday law that will satisfy all of us together.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4438	Dear BiH Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, we advocate that BiH has its holiday law and that it has its holidays, but we advocate that it be holidays that are undeniable from no one. For these reasons, I say it is an undeniable date for the signing of the Dayton Agreement and I believe it could be, not only could it be, but it should be a date for BiH's statehood. The signing date in Paris, December 14th, is also an undeniable date of great importance for BiH and could be added to BiH's holidays. Then the international holidays of New Year's Eve, May 1st, are undeniable holidays that I see no one is challenging. As for November 25th, it is very controversial, because the date is tied to the communist party of Yugoslavia and since we have wiped out all that period, I think that holiday is really controversial and we would not consider it. One of my arguments and confirmations that BiH is indeed in statehood since the signing of the Dayton Agreement. BiH was never a state until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4439	Ladies and gentlemen, I would, Mr. Chairman, like to use a few seconds on you within these 2-3 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I was quite precise in the fact that the UN organisation's undeniable authority was the day BiH was accepted as a member of the UN. There's nothing more in the UN than states. Therefore, the story of November 21st as the day of statehood and the second packaging of December 14th as an important moment of signing, either forget it or don't talk about things that aren't facts. By international recognition of BiH, BiH, which was called RBiH, is on the day of its entry into the UN. It's an indisputable fact. As for the statehood and state of BiH, BiH's history is completely the opposite of how you see BiH's history, the opposite. It just doesn't even go parallel. There were some ideas in that prewar age, before this pluralism of so-called. parallel history, about that. The point is that the BiH Constitution that we are calling on and we are working on the basis of the Constitution defines the position of the BiH state in the way I read it. If necessary, we can redistribute the Constitution to all MPs who are interested. Secondly, and fundamentally and fundamentally, on which we can in no way agree, it is undeniable New Year, it is undeniable May Day as a holiday, it is undeniable November 21st, why not. He's got a proposal for a 25th November bill. I ask to be approached, since there are no other proposals, when it comes to this law. We agreed in the Draft, when it comes to the Draft, we made proposals, we gave different suggestions, we gave different opinions, we can take note of this debate on the draft, there is agreement of three dates, if there is no agreement on one date, please speak of the state of BiH as the facts are. 223
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4440	Ambassador, don't use a good wish to give you a word. I'll take your word for it next time. I warn you, MP, of your behavior.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4441	Mr. Chairman, the replica is very short, sometimes you wonder if it makes sense, but you can't erase history. History and events in history can be critically questioned and given their judgment about them and have their views on them. It can't be deleted and it's my only replica. This 25th November is one of the dates that we, as promoters, particularly respect and appreciate, and that is why we have proposed it in this way in which we are, and I allow it clearly that everyone has a view of it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4442	I have to say I didn't answer for the replica, but I just don't think this debate makes any sense anymore. We can have as many theories as we want and talk about various variations, the situation is all the way clear and familiar. To defend one and the other, we have a clear view that we need a law on national holidays. I think that all the arguments have been made and that the legislator of one law and another, on that basis, can propose a proposal on which we will declare to the amendments next time. To have a much wider discussion now, to go back to history, to prove some things, I don't think it's necessary. It may take some people to create some emotions in public, things I don't know what, not to give any qualifications about it. As far as I'm concerned, first of all, I find the law necessary. Secondly, I believe it is the law, that it is necessary to separate the law on the holidays of BiH and not to mix religious holidays. It's like my proposal for what needs to be done and I think that based on what we've said here, the promoter one and the other has enough elements to build what needs to be built up and now to make a statement about one and the other law, I don't think we should have a debate about the other, that it's being led both of us.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4443	Mrs. Perkanović, the replica, but I ask that this replica be a real replica, not a lecture.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4444	I just wanted to say that I understand Mr. Divković, because they run the continuity of the past policy and it is quite reasonable that he will defend the dates that are related to it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4445	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I think I was very clear when I presented the basic motives for these dates. Here, indeed, I would like to thank 224 all MPs who have suggested certain improvements, complement this law, and I think there is one kind of prevailing opinion that these are certainly four dates around which we could agree as significant to BiH in different variants of the name. I think it's very good, so much so before, here, no one challenged the New Year, the first and second January and May 1st, and I have to tell you that in the past, these exclusive policies have been challenging and that, to be quite clear, but now I don't want to go back, not in the sense of replica, but in terms of just clarifying motivation. For November 25th, with the name ZAVNOBIH Day, we identified ourselves in the Draft as a proposal for a BiH state holiday, for the reason of the formula that has been established for BiH as countries with three Bosnian-Herzegovina equal peoples and all its citizens, and that ZAVNOBIH grew up in an anti-fascist struggle. Although there's this continuity of ours, we want this continuity of the ZAVNOBIH, this anti-fascist movement, and I don't think there's any need here right now to over-polize. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask the PSBiH House of Representatives to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion that this draft of the electoral law, with suggestions and proposals made, may be the basis for making the draft law on the holidays of BiH, and we, as proposings, will continue to communicate with parliamentary parties, especially with MPs who have made concrete proposals, with a desire to reach a solution to the minimum of the common one and to support the commitment that it is very important that we have the days for which we all feel, at least overwhelmingly, that we have common important and important dates.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4446	Thank you very much. I want to make my contribution to this problem. In order, ladies and gentlemen, in order to get to the really necessary law, I hope that I will not cause anyone's replica and I won't call anyone, but please, when you're making it, and I think it should be as the basis for making the proposal, when you're making that proposal that I think is necessary and that it has its place and role, take care when BiH has officially become a state, if we're already looking for a state date. I could now cite a series of historical facts, but if we recognise BiH as a state, as a complex state community, then I pray that it is officially said when it became a state, because then it would most logically be that date, the day of statehood. When she really became a state, I ask you to really consider that. Second, I find it very important. If we recognise BiH, in accordance with what was done on 21 November, or 14 December, then I ask that in your article 4, in the emphasis of the symbols, all the symbols of those you have listed are also highlighted, but also symbols of the entities, because you acknowledge that BiH has entities. Nothing more. There's no replica, sir. He can only blame the quote. And then he blames the quote. You're just gonna have to tell me what's wrong with the quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4447	Here, I'll tell you now. First, here is the debate on the holidays of the BiH state. If you have a holiday in entities, in the Federation of BiH and RS, you have parliaments there and suggest. As for the BiH symbol, BiH as a state is known for the symbols behind which you stand: the state coat of arms, the national flag and the anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4448	Read Article 4, sir, please. I'll take your word for it. You're not talking the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4449	As you asked for the date of the beginning of BiH, as a state. I'm undermining, I don't know if the promoters understand.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4450	Please, what about the wrong quote?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4451	You have wrongly stated that it is necessary to highlight entity symbols within the national holidays, because that way you have established a new system of values that does not exist in BiH's positive legislation.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4452	There's no such thing as entities.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4453	There are three national signs: coat of arms, flag and anthem. That's what we agreed on, and don't answer those questions. As for other features, we can talk about this when we talk about the significant features of BiH, and now we are talking about a document, the State Holidays Act. How can anyone reflect which holiday and where, how many flags will report, cantonal, municipal and local organizations and others, it is, of course, a matter of decorative ability to anyone who participates.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4454	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4455	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I have reported to support Mr Spahić, that if he believes that there is no reason to discuss Serbian MPs from RS, then, if there are none, if you think so, then why are we looking for our votes. We are BiH, no one is slow, so we sit here. The moment you notice us actually sitting there, you'll probably have a different discussion. What bothers someone must be a compromise. I'm not going to gymnastics, as our representative Mr. Tokić would say, but I'll say one thing, that the moment you realize there's someone out there who's bothered to ask for a possible consensus, then there's no deal. Therefore, I ask you, Chairman, to bring this end to an end, because gymnastics can be even greater. 226
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4456	It's not a replica, it's a guilty quote from Mr Spahić. BiH has three features, he said, and showed his arm the coat of arms, flag and anthem and said we agreed on them. He's got it all wrong. We didn't agree on them. They were imposed by the Office of the High Representative. It is also an anthem, challenged by the House of Peoples, even she is still imposed even though this house adopted her.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4457	I suggest we plead. How many are there? – 25 Who is in favour of this draft law on the holidays of BiH, along with suggestions, remarks and proposals from the MPs, going to the draft law on the holidays of BiH. - 17 - No one - Eight abstentions means 17 for, eight abstentions, no. Entirely. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 11 From the RS, when is it in favor? - 6 Thank you, there is a sufficient number, gentlemen, we can discuss another law, and we need to discuss it, but I think it's quite clear. I think we're remarks, I thought we'd cut this short, let me just say it. I think we can shorten the debate and these huge dilemmas and just talk about what's not said in this debate. The law on holidays and holidays of BiH in terms of plans, let me just say. I call on the proposal's representative to submit the opening statement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4458	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs, given this debate that has been so far, I will try to be as brief as possible, give just some fiction, facts. Given the need to regulate the holidays of BiH, but also the holidays, and respecting Parliament's conclusions and earlier discussions and the special conclusions of the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers discussed and tried to draft a holiday law in the first version, and later the Law on holidays and holidays. The debate was quite constructive, however, as it is today with various proposals, and sometimes a little and a little bile around some dates could not agree, and according to our Rules of Procedure, we have also asked for consultations with the BiH Presidency. The BiH presidency discussed all the controversial points that we also had as the BiH Council of Ministers in its debate, and took a unique position and was determined on the holiday, on the name of the holiday and, therefore, on the date when these holidays will be celebrated. In addition, it defined certain basic principles. The BiH Council of Ministers then considered suggestions and, in some ways, let's say the arbitration of the BiH presidency, incorporated it into the draft law and fully agreed on the text. The text agreed at the BiH Presidency and agreed on by the BiH Council of Ministers was unanimously sent to the BiH Parliament and today is ahead of you as well as the debate on it. 227 I must say that, apart from the holidays, we wanted to regulate the way of celebrating the holidays, or religious holidays in BiH. Since the debates so far, it has been set up, possibly, with some MPs, whether to regulate it, whether or not to regulate it. We felt it was necessary to regulate, if nothing else, to define what holidays they were and what unworkable days in BiH, if necessary and practical, if nothing else is doing, if not anything else, and then just for the functioning of both institutions and businesses and businesses and businesses and everything else in BiH. What we're talking about at some point, I need to do it one more time. We had after the debate, after sometimes individual and bile polemics, a voluntary moment, there are consensus, consistency at the BiH presidency and at the BiH Council of Ministers. It's up to you to identify yourself on this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4459	Thank you very much. Who's calling for a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4460	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, I have come to the discussion of this second draft proposal, because in the previous discussion it was left unsettled, in my court, or perhaps a misjudged statement of MPs about religious holidays and their place in such a law. Right away, I have no intention or desire at all or the need to compromise with opinions expressed, especially this is not a replica, but an attempt to help to clarify things a little bit in terms of the need for a new sensitivity, first of all, for us here in the BiH Parliament, to refer to matters of faith, in this case, religious holidays in our country, which I would not like to say so, still, something I call stereotypes in each respect. Namely, when we mention the implications, of course, of these stereotypes. I'd just like to say, when it comes to us, here's the word "secularism." It means a lot of things and it has a mostly false understanding and it can be used with a certain state of things, a order of value, a place of faith in some environment and determined, but it can also forge reality, it can also abuse a lot of things and say that there are trends in us, there are, in fact, efforts even to re-secularize and drag something that is brutal, I would say, antitheism. In order not to remain unarranged, namely, without the ambition to do anything, I believe that we should have one new sensitivity, a sensitivity that would be free from those stereotypes that we, in some ways, were subordinated to in the earlier period when, now I use another phrase from that time, the separation of the state, or religion from the state or church, meant, in fact, one group again, unfortunately, the variant of pushing faith into privacy, into some kind of reservation or ban, from which that privacy, or religion, is so-called. A private matter, she had no right to the public. In order to eliminate this, in my judgment, we need to have this sensitivity, because in this way we will also disable all reverse manipulations and abuses of faith for impatience and various other things, because we are not deprived, of course, of any other reason, I would ask that in considering this law, and in the desire to really build a new sensitivity in this very sensitive area, such as the understandable issue of determining a state holiday, in one other way, it is very important for me to also determine our religious holidays, because a lot of them assume and represent. I would only warn that those old schemes that, however, had one caricature 228 discharge, I would say, in a system in which we used to be, in some harsh separation of the state from religion, in a normal world long ago did not work, as the division of secular, sacred or consecrated, sacral, for a simple reason, which modern life is too complex, too layered and these groups, the divisions that used to work, which we have, we well inherited from the time of Germany, and you know what periods, in fact, its history, today, just don't work. For this reason, I would only invite MPs to have a slightly different relationship with this issue of relations between religion and state, or places of regulation or ways of regulating religious holidays in BiH, rather than as we have acquired all these historical circumstances, as well as the events of these new ones, so far. I believe that this is very important and that this is not amongst other issues that are regulated in this way, but rather the issue of relations with us and relations between us, but also the relations in which we, I say, live in private. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4461	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with my colleague, Mr. Neimarlija, that we should have enough feelings for this kind of problem and whenever a country, which is as complex as BiH, didn't have enough feelings for this p... it had sometimes stronger, sometimes weaker problems. I'm not for these things to be put on the sidelines, not to be talked about. Perhaps it could be a compromise, in that sense, to pass a special law on holidays and religious holidays in BiH, that it does not go within this law on BiH's national holidays, and I think that even now no one is against that of those who hold to faith, to hold to tradition, to church, and I don't know, other religious objects, mosques, etc., that there are no bans. It seems to me that politicians, top state officials at BiH level, have so far been treating each other to congratulate each other, which will say that we are entering one new situation, I hope is more important than it was, as Mr Neimarlija says, so let it be a special segment that the Council of Ministers of BiH will make in the form of a legal project, so present it here. I guess no one needs to oppose that way, but, you see, sometimes it's not good with legal projects to get too deep into it because we're going to get boomerang on the other side. Too much legal regulation that enters these domains, relations of religion, religion, etc. It opens a block on the other side, but here, I agree that it will be specifically defined, not as part of the state holidays law, but as one legal project.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4462	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since we have before us a Law on the holidays and holidays of BiH in the form of a draft, I would like to present just a few principled observations. I would like to say that I consider these remarks justified by a number of MPs who assume that the issue of religious holidays should be regulated by a special legal act. However, it seems that the essence of what this legal act would contain is. If he were to imply the definition of religious holidays, then it is quite logical that a separate legal act could do so in a quality way. However, if he should, first of all, address the issue of marking these holidays, then, in my opinion, he should only include one member who, for example, could read: BiH citizens have the right to two free, or unworkable days to mark their religious holidays. If there are no religious festivals, then 229 such a member could be integrated within the holiday law, so as not to create a new law that only regulates the issue of religious holidays. In this proposed variant, it is little to say that this syntagma of BiH's religious holidays is problematic, because, to some extent, it implies the existence of a state religion, i.e. inaugurally inauguration of the category of state religion, in the sense that the state prescribes a religion that has an official validity and is based on the proper religious holidays. I think this category is controversial, possibly getting the green light of the religious holiday categories in BiH. The religious holidays prescribed by, of course, the relevant religious communities, which the state at the legal level only determines, determines their existence and prescribes a further aspect of their treatment at this principle state and social level. Also, I think that this provision, which cleans this working dimension, the working-social dimension of marking religious holidays in Article 8 where it is said that other religious holidays, other than those of Article 5 of this Law, persons who celebrate them, have the right to, as working days, use two working days during the year on which they are obliged to meet their employer in good time, I think there is some kind of discrimination here, that BiH's religious holidays do not require such a thing, and that this is necessary for all other religious holidays used by the citizens of BiH. If I were to sum up, given that this is a principle debate, it would be desirable to regulate the issue of religious holidays with a special legal act, and it remains a matter of agreement between MPs whether it will treat religious holidays solely from the aspect of the right of citizens to mark them, or whether it will be some kind of concreteisation, which should not imply categories of state religion, or religious holidays, which are based on it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4463	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of MPs, I am mostly, not to say, fully agree with what Mr Neimarlija said, and I would probably support the conclusion that there was now a concrete conclusion, but I think that the exposure, in fact, pointed out the need for this BiH House of Representatives to open a debate about it and to try to find solutions to treat a completely different relationship with a religious holiday, but again, that this way does not take charge of Parliament, to declare what is a more important religious holiday in relation to other holidays or, however, that there is a risk that the PSBiH House of Representatives should not be put into office to declare more significant religions than other religions, etc. and I think these discussions have pointed to several possibilities. One option is that through the Labour Law strictly requires the right of believers to have days to celebrate these religious holidays freely, another possibility is to regulate in a special way the rights of people related to religious holidays, but I don't think that we should ever fall into these traps spoken of by Mr Jahić and I, in the context of this debate, would have to come to more relevant information and that, as MEPs, and also the Council of Ministers of BiH, when it re-emerges as a legitimate and executive body of BiH, we may ask for these solutions, not have to be voted on, but also through parliamentary issues, the PSBiH House of Representatives may also ask the entity governments to provide us with information on rights, human rights in terms of religious rights, or the right to use of holidays. As regulated in entities, let's see if our intervention would then go in 230 directions to the Labour Relations Act or with a special legal project at BiH level. Let's see this information from the government, I'm deliberately speaking to the government of the entity, because we have the Ministry of Faith, as far as I know, in the RS, so she'll probably prepare that information, but I think she has a basis for us to lead the issue to debate and get more information and try to resolve this issue at BiH level, in a way of a new relationship, but, at the same time, not delaying fundamental human rights from the aspect of a significant deterioration of certain religious holidays compared to others.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4464	Thank Bog the time has come to discuss this. Mr. Neimarlija's debate and measured and serious and dignified, what kind of a problem this is is something I personally want to support and what I want to look back on, just a few of my remarks. The partnership relationship between religious communities and state-building, whatever it is, is the best solution in practice. Therefore, I would not want the state to interfere too much with religious matters, and I am convinced that no religious community, if it is healthy within itself, does not want too many states to interfere with its competences. There are, namely, things that the church is talking about right now, because I know it best, but I'd like someone to say in the name of their own, and I'm going to suggest something in that sense that the church is jealous of and that is, as she says, something that belongs to it, something that is not for the public and something that the believers, as such, have the right. And I, in that sense, and I support, therefore, this partnership relationship, where the church can say clearly and loudly, this is my part, this is my intimacy, in this regard I do not allow any state, any minister and I do not know who, who is officially in charge of state life. The dignity of the believers, you know what it was like. I would even say, over the past 50 years, it's been much healthier, much stronger, much more honorable than it is today, and that's why, when we talk about the believers, I would talk about those who were believers and then stayed and now. Hybrids put you wherever you want. It's hard for them to go to church now, and I have to admit to you, as far as I'm concerned. I don't know in other religious communities. I wouldn't want this part of the job to be made by those people who don't have much to do with religious holidays, that is, in what the believer is experiencing on a religious holiday, and that's why I suggest that people from religious communities get involved here, that they say theirs. Or why don't we invite them here to say what they expect of us and this law. I'm not in a position to make some kind of state religion, because in my opinion, any high-quality believer would immediately reject it. A quality believer does not want to be privileged, but he does not feel very well if he is too neglected. Some injustices can bear on behalf of that ideology, but too many injustices can be burdened with one man only because he is religiously classified on one side or on the other, it is indeed an injustice that engulfs all possible human rights. To determine two or three days of religious holidays, I think it's also wrong, because I think that there should be both hearing and feeling and, finally, to bear in mind that we are in Europe. I beg you, tell me who you will sign a contract with, with whom you will make some arrangements, which you will remind between 21st December and 2nd, let's say, January. I'm just saying this as an example, and so can someone else, probably, in a different sense, and I'd like to hear it. If we're going to Europe, I think we should look for European standards here 231, and they're not that easy... simply solve it this simple way as we suggest here. Finally, freedom is what characterizes both the believers and the non-believer and the one who puts atheism in place of faith, etc., therefore all people here are equally interested in getting to the right law, and I think we can come as I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4465	In support of this suggestion by the chairman-in-Office of Skopljak, that one should include or consult representatives of religious communities, I just wanted to meet MPs, some may know that there are now activities in the making of the law on the position of religious communities at BiH level, led by some of these international institutions, with the participation of experts from all four of the most important religious communities, i.e. churches of the Catholic, Orthodox, Islamic communities and the Jewish communities in us. That's one piece of information and the other. At the level of what I was saying, of course, I deliberately avoided concluding my discussion, that is, to suggest a conclusion, but now I cannot resist speaking on my part, both as a believer and on the line of what I have already said, my resistance to the regulation of religious holidays by the Labour Act. It's not a matter of regulation of working relationships. Religious holidays are a celebration. I would ask MPs to seek a solution, consulting representatives of religious communities, and let us not bring religious holidays down or to the extent not necessary. On the question of regulation of our work activities. Religious holidays are like national holidays, soul things, feelings of celebration. I hope that we will be able to understand them at some point, given this, our ambience, that each religious community will also be in a sort of ceremony for others, and therefore I would only appeal that this is in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4466	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're all discussing this very carefully. It is, I would say, a sensitive question and it seems to me that the closest thing to the reality of Mr. Pero Skopljak, that we would not do it in this way in front of the public and those who are believers and those who care about faith in another way, go into some debate, I think that if you were to observe the matter now, I suppose that we have entered a zone, which may not be a priority. Preaching faith, belief is a very private matter. To raise it to the level of some state law, I'm afraid it does, I said that too much regulation in this area will cause resistance to those who believe, and I suppose we want to help them. So I mean, I'm saying this is a rather sensitive question that we might be able to talk about in a different way. Perhaps it would be best if the religious communities agreed on it and went with the proposal, if they think that this area should be regulated legally at the state level to go, not to go into some wider, not even polymised, sensitive problem, and I think we're in that field. I'm afraid too many legislative regulations don't cause more resistance and more damage than benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4467	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I think we should go back to the Rules of Procedure and define ourselves. I don't think it's right at all now to start interpreting the discussion, and that's what Mr. Neimarlija just did. When I was talking, I'm not saying that the Labour Law is the only content of treating religious holidays, but it's necessary, and I wanted to ask the question clearly, instead of these global definitions that no one questions, that we specifically see whether someone was forced to work in religious holidays, I think it's a priority and that's why I asked for information. The content of religious holidays, not only of the Labour Law, but of no law can be treated, so at this point I don't think there's any need for this debate, especially since I think we have one consensus that this issue, based on all the discussions, is a significant issue, and that it should certainly be, with all of us gathering the necessary information, or solving through legal projects or through specific initiatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4468	Mr. Chairman, my discussion will be more of a question for understanding the law, specifically the draft that came from the BiH Council of Ministers. In this draft, Article 5 lists religious holidays, from 1-6, and that in Article 6 says BiH's religious holidays from members are days of unemployment, etc. In fact, the question arises, it makes perfect sense to me, this is the state law, at the state level, which means that all these holidays are unworkable throughout the country and that practically all the confessions and members of all the confessions should not work, conditionally speaking, to celebrate both ramazanski bajram and Kurban Bayram, Christmas Catholic, Christmas Orthodox, Easter and Easter. I put into debate and think, especially, what you would say, following closely what Mr. Skopljak said, whether it should be regulated in such a way that certain religious communities clearly respect their holidays in the way they want to, to praise them that they are unworkable days and that they are regulated in this way. I don't have a final view of it, but I was glad to understand what this proposal was really about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4469	On the basis of all the discussions so far, I would like to make one suggestion that the Law on Religious Holidays and Holidays, for practical reasons, should be put into the laws of the entity, possibly a canton. Since BiH is a complex state and we have all three confesions, it does not make sense that certain areas, entities or cantons celebrate days that make no sense to them. As far as the Labour and Working Relations Act is concerned, I will support the SDP gentlemen and this has to do with the absence of work, but not in terms of regulation of the law. My proposal, therefore, is for practical reasons, for various needs, different layers of the population, this Law on religious holidays and holidays should be resolved at the level of the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4470	Mr. Chairman, respected MPs, bringing this debate to an end and listening to all the remarks proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH on this law, I just have to conclude the following. The BiH Council of Ministers' intention was not to propose a law on national and religious holidays or on state religions, 233 as mentioned here, as already said in discussions between Mr Neimarlija and Mr Skopljak, on the status and position of religious communities and religion in BiH. However, one of the reasons why these holidays were also treated in this Law is one practice, which is, I can tell you that the first year of work of the BiH Council of Ministers, as a joint BiH institution, is one of the main aids, with the Office of the High Representative, to hold our meetings were the calendars of religious holidays in BiH, all three religions, because it is not necessary to go to Europe, that there should not be a discussion there between the 17th and the New Year. In BiH, joint institutions, from 20.12 to 20.1 at least cannot function because of the unresolved issue of the use of days off, the days off for religious holidays, that is the essence. It's not about determining people what they can celebrate and what they can't celebrate, it's not about getting involved in the right religious communities. Religious communities have determined on their religious calendars for each year exactly what are given religiously and how they are celebrated according to certain religions. But now it's a matter of one union, of one interaction with this state... What happened when, for example, in the BiH presidency building in Sarajevo, Bajram cannot enter because it does not work because people have not come, and these are people who celebrate Bajram and others cannot work. Or, for example, a session of the BiH Council of Ministers or the BiH Presidency cannot be held, because, according to the current Rules of Procedures and this Parliament, there is no quorum because these people have not come. Whether these employees will then be counted according to the Labour Law and how many days, that is, refuse, that is, whether someone can come into a job without a job because of these religious holidays. That's the essential question. Or, for example, there are others, they went to Lukavica, where the headquarters of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications is, there's no one there, because Vaskrs is and I don't know similar things. Therefore, it was intentional and the fact that this issue was very sensitive and one of the thoughts was that there might be more symbolism for the sake of and some, to say so, BiH, the way it is, that you, conditionally said the most significant holidays would be unworkable for the whole of BiH and thus prove that in BiH and those religions, normally with the others present, and that they have a significant impact on life in BiH. The second question, also, which we have left unclear and unresolved, which we only point out at this moment, which is the issue of relations now, especially common institutions and overall holidays in BiH. That's one special question. Let's say what to do if a man from the Federation of BiH, from the RS, does not come to work and says, I am a citizen of the Federation of BiH or of the RS, and I work in joint institutions, today is our holiday, which has declared either the RS or the Federation of BiH. This is also one question due to the lack of a law that would follow this law on national holidays and, possibly, holidays, so, one labour law, or one law that would regulate the work of joint institutions, the BiH Council of Ministers has offered this one proposal to which we have tried, so to say, to give one initiative to solve this problem and I think all these discussions that have been made indicate one thing, that we were on a good track, and now whether it should be in one law, whether it should be put into two laws, even three laws, which makes sense if the law on working at the level of joint institutions, or at the level of BiH, remains the question that we do so in further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4471	I think this debate should end. We now have a situation here that we have heard a series of suggestions and a proposal for different opinions on access to holidays. I don't think there were any controversial matters about having access to the holidays. It remains that I, too, formulate a motion to vote. Who is it that this Law on holidays and holidays, as a draft, along with the remarks and suggestions of MPs, goes into the making of a bill. Before that, let's just see how many there are. – 26, of course, that means both the one and the other proposer, where the stenograms will be delivered, that is absolutely understood. Who's in? - 14 Opposed - 12 14 for, no, abstention 12. It's an entity vote. Who's for the Federation of BiH? - 10. There is, therefore, a majority of the Federation of BiH. From the RS, who's in? – 4, there is no required majority and goes to the alignment and this draft. I'll figure this out. There's no break at this point. The club president can request a break. I'm concluding this agenda point and
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4472	Mr. Banjac, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I was a little late in the intervention, but it seems to me that the conclusion of the chair of this session was quite simple compared to the rich and complex discussion that was being held regarding the draft of the law. Namely, Mr. Neven Tomić, as a member of the BiH Council of Ministers, before the legislator of this law, made it very clear in his last address that the BiH Council of Ministers would take into account everything heard today, and today it was said that the draft of this law could be broken on three proposals or draft laws. Even so, the BiH Council of Ministers is ready to consider that option. Therefore, I would simply like to conclude, at the end of all this, that voting on this text of this law is still only a principle vote, because it is quite certain that the differences regarding the need for regulation of this matter are in a certain way such that it is still possible to get a completely different bill from one of the legislators in the future and, to be open, the vote today was complex and I expect that just as the legislator will refer to possible further work on the matter that was tried to regulate in the draft of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4473	Ambassador, it does not exclude your thinking right to the motionary to act in the way you thought he should. Therefore, there is a regular procedure, to act in this way, since the stenogram will be delivered. Whether or not the MPs' club stays at the break. Half an hour. Pause until 2:30, to 3 breaks. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4474	It's obvious that after lunch we're having a harder time meeting, and I'm asking you in advance to observe the time limits, or terms. Since my colleague, 235 Banjac, has asked me to continue this session. We've got two points, I guess I'll last as long as I am. Ad.14. The draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is proposed by the Council of Ministers of BiH, as far as I know. I don't see anyone here who can give us a reference, so, here, I'm opening a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4475	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the bill and I'm only going to give one suggestion. In ratification of international agreements, it is the Dayton authority of the BiH presidency to ratify international agreements, with the granting and obtaining consent, as it stands, from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I therefore advocate that in Chapter V of this Law, ratification of international agreements, one member is decidently standing, because it does not now stand, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH gives consent to ratification of international agreements in that form or another, the processor should prepare it, for the simple reason that when members 13 and 14 are read, who say that "the BiH Presidency, for the sake of obtaining approval for ratification, delivers to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the concluded international agreements", is a member of the 13th and 14th that says "the BiH Presidency, after obtaining the consent of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, decides on ratification, etc. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly is under the impression that it serves as some kind of advisory body, not as a legislative body. In order for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to play its right role, that we here would not necessarily discuss and discuss these agreements, I propose that a member who is fully in line with the Dayton Peace Agreement be installed and who says that the function and role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is to give consent, as a special member.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4476	Thank you very much, Mr. Divković, you will deliver it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4477	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this legislative project, which is in the draft, belongs to the category of legal projects that are in the interest of BiH and should be adopted as soon as possible. I will try to make my remarks in order to improve the text of this law, i.e. to resolve certain ambiguities that may lead to dilemma. In that sense, I propose that Article 1, here, I read it as reads "This Law regulates the procedure for the conclusion and execution of international contracts and other actions concerning international contracts", I propose to place a decimal there and add the words "which concludes BiH", meaning that these words are added. Paragraph 3 of Article 5 should be deleted because it does not comply with the BiH Constitution, and I will read the position. "When international contracts concluded by BiH deal with issues that are in the entity's exclusive jurisdiction, entity authorities are involved in the creation of the basis. Something which is in the entity's exclusive jurisdiction cannot be taken over in the 236 jurisdiction of the joint institutions, except by law, except by the Constitution of the prescribed procedure", which means that it does not comply with the Constitution. I suggest that Article 8 of this law, I propose a new text, and, here, I'll say what it says in this bill. ‘... a bilateral international contract shall be established in the languages of the Contracting Parties or in another language according to their agreement’. I suggest that this article reads: “The text of the bilateral international treaty is established in the languages and letters of the parties, which, on the part of BiH, necessarily includes Serbian, Croatian and Bosnian languages, and a Cyrillic, or Latin letter. ” That would be a proposal for a new member. In Article 23(2), the words “and the competent authorities of entities” should be added to the word “community”, and, behold, I will read how this article reads in the Draft. "Confirmed copies of international military contracts are recorded and deposited in the BiH Presidency, in the Standing Military Committee," and writes "and to the competent authorities of the entity", as I must remind you that the NSRS has, too, the Commission or the Committee on Military Affairs or the Committee on Control, Civil Control of the Military Component. You have such two committees as part of the Federation of BiH Parliament, the Representative Council and the Council of the Peoples, which is why I think this dimension should be included, because in Slovenia a few days ago we had a consultation in the organisation of the OSCE, related to civilian surveillance of the military component in BiH, where the conclusions are on the line of what I propose. In the end, I propose that Article 26 states: "If the domestic legal person does not fulfil its obligations arising from the international agreements concluded by BiH, BiH will implement the obligations, based on one of the BiH entities, but depending on who that legal person belongs to." So, the burden of the entity will be executed, given the location of the legal entity to which the obligation applies. These are my suggestions to the Council of Ministers, given that this is a draft, I think a stenogram will be delivered, so we will see in terms of the amendments, when we get the bill and we will intervene in the light of the amendments, if that is the need, or if the BiH Council of Ministers is to be able to accept these adjustments and amendments through the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4478	Since no one answered for the discussion, here is some time 3:02,200(?). 11:30 to 12:30, the OHR called a meeting with the presidents of business clubs, so please, whoever may be present, it will be in OHR's rooms, you know better where it is than I do, so whoever can come. Is there anyone else to discuss? Can we consider bringing this debate to an end? The proposal is to deliver this to the Council of Ministers of BiH and then expect the bill to be proposed by Mr Špirić and the other MPs, right? We have a quorum – 22 Thank you very much. We unanimously passed this Law and we hope that his happiness will be in our hands. Thank you very much. 237 We have the final, last item of the agenda, and I consider the last point of this, questions and answers to the MPs, so we have formulated, although, here, we do not have the answers, unfortunately, so I am informed, so please this time, we will still have the final point of the agenda of the questions and the answers of the MPs, and the next session, we will bring this one to an end, if Bog so, clearly. Next session we'll have the current clock, as agreed. Who has any questions today? Is it destructive that I'm acting so nobody's interested, so I don't know what. Last item on the agenda. Here, I have also received a notice in the meantime, forgive me, Špirić, please, Mrs Suada Muminagić has given a written one parliamentary question that we will hopefully consider when the time is right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4479	I must ask my personal question, ladies and gentlemen, if there is a possibility of writing, then I must say that I have three questions left by Mr. Deretić, because he is not present today. That possibility exists, I'll read it, if it doesn't exist, I won't read it. Here, let me ask my personal question. First of all, I have a dilemma about whether it's worth asking parliamentary questions, given the quality of the answers we get, and in 99% of the cases we don't get an answer. However, my question seems to me to have a clear address and could be answered if effort is made. We are from the verification of the mandate of 42 MPs in the Representative Council of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, here we are, working for a year and two months, with a certified term of MP, without that MP. I give you, Madam Chairman, a letter to you and the OSCE. Is this verified mandate valid or not, and why is it that one political option that has been given MPs in the elections has no political right to defend its views in this House?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4480	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4481	I'm sorry, I have to say, specifically, it's Ambassador Đedović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4482	I agree with this conclusion, and I thank Mr Špirić for at least remembering that he puts such a problem ahead of us, that is to remember, when it comes to our skin to acting differently and about someone else a little differently. Let's move on with the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4483	Ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, I would just like to remind myself that a question and a request has been raised at the last meeting of our home for the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the BiH Presidency, at the first January session of the BiH Parliament, to present the role that BiH has as host of one of the Stability Pact's working tables and to inform us in which projects, within the framework of the three working tables, BiH participates in security, when it comes to the economy and when it comes to issues relating to human rights and freedoms, because we have asked for the BiH Presidency to declare this. If I could get the information, whether this information is under way and whether this very important issue of what we have concluded in the previous Resolution on European Integrations and the Stability Pact will take place in January, that is the first. Secondly, we received assurances, after a meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Relations, that by half of February we will have one piece of paper that speaks about the economic strategy and social policy, at the level of the BiH state institutions, so these are two things that I consider important because they are related to the decisions of both of the BiH Parliament's houses and I want to remind, at the same time, of the obligations of these institutions in relation to these several important issues for the life of BiH citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4484	On behalf of myself, and also on behalf of certain voters, i.e. voters who voted in favour of me and others, at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I ask that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, i.e. the House of Representatives and other institutions take appropriate positions on increasing provocations from individual MPs, or members of the House of Representatives towards other members, or MPs of this House. We have witnessed these days that Mr Tokić, even more equated those who have been accused of war crimes with Mr Silajdžić, and in this direction, are seeking the protection of all of us MPs, and in particular the consequences that need to be met by such MPs who are arrogantly acting and identifying both MPs and others according to which the Hague tribunal has a very correct opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4485	Thank you very much, Mr. Malkić, that's my problem too, about that, but what we started today, that very process of respecting each other, so I hope that in that context and some things we can decode, with the accuracy we need to raise in this home a little bit. Thank you very much, Mr. Malkić. Hopefully we'll get some answers, too, when we do, we'll do something about it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4486	Following our work and what is published in "The Official Messenger of BiH", most of it is published except for some things that either do not respond or do not want to be published. I'm asking the next question, and based on that, I'm going to tell you my position. On December 1st, we passed the Refugees Act and made a special decision with the law that was to be published in the “Official Messenger”. The law has been published, the decision has not been published. Therefore, if someone from the professional department can put 239 out of our work, then I ask the question and ask my reserve if I will come to the next assembly that is scheduled, if our documents are not published. I am responsible for saying that I will not come to the congregations unless our documents are published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4487	Thank you very much, Mr. Rakić. Mr. Špirić. I hope we can establish this communication and find a satisfactory solution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4488	I, of course, because I suppose the parliamentary questions are closed and I think Mr. Rakić – I don't know if he intended this through the parliamentary question or before the session was concluded. But on behalf of the Club that I represent and on my own behalf, as an MP, I would say that there is no need to place political will on the shoulders of the Secretariat and the Joint Service. The non-publishing of the decision in the “Official Messenger” stands for one’s political will, those who participated here in the decision-making process. It is therefore a serious warning, the chairman, that we will not attend the session unless the documents voted in this House are published in the official messengers. It's okay for me if we don't come up with a decision. If someone argues, if they don't get most of it. But the decision that passed in the democratic debate, so someone later remembered that it might not fit his party's political agenda, is not okay. And we must warn you that this is the position of the Members' Club – until that decision is announced that you do not accidentally invite us to consult on the appointment of a new 17th session. Please respect the documents we adopted ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-29-0.u4489	I ask you, however, by respecting what Mr. Špirić is saying, that we are now, however, at the point of questions and answers. And let's stick to that point. If there's a subpoint to be put in, I'm very willing. Can I help you? Can we close this session? I thank you very much. If we work this efficiently, we'll be fine. /End of 16. MEETINGS/
