ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1665	I am opening the 7th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We'll wait for a moment, we've got technical sound problems. So, honourable MPs, distinguished guests, yet another number of MPs and members of the Council of Ministers have arrived, currently there are 34 MPs, totaling 21, from Republika Srpska's space of 13, we can move forward with the work. (Intonation of the Himne) Introduces a few information regarding further work of the House of Representatives and the working session. As we have known, we have had two initiatives to hold the thematic sessions of the House of Representatives on which the topics - European Integration and Stability Pact for South East Europe, one initiative of a group of MPs from the CD Coalition, one initiative from a group of Members of the Social Democratic Party Club, and we agreed at the College that this thematic session of European Integration - the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, was held on Thursday 22nd. Today will be called, we planned to hold a session of the Foreign Affairs and International Affairs Representative's Commission on Monday. The Commission would aim to establish a platform that would be adopted at a thematic session of the House of Representatives, and after that session of the committee to be held on Monday, the extended College would be held on Tuesday at 2 o'clock, so representatives or presidents of the clubs of all parliamentary parties who should agree on a possible parliament and, otherwise, that Thursday's session should be prepared as well as possible. Following the end of Thursday's session, there would be an 8th regular session on which the issues that came in the meantime -- the BiH Air Force Bill Proposal, the proposal for an agreement with the Swiss Federation on the regulation of aviation relations, the Central Bank Report and parliamentary issues. I am saying this for the reason that you have in mind the debate on the agenda for today's session, so that we do not repeat ourselves in the requests, in matters, that you have in mind this intention and this agreement of the College, during the debate on the session, or on the agenda of today's session. The agenda of today's session has been agreed on by the College, you have received a draft agenda and I will read the agenda point by point, noting the points in which there has been some change, not essential but technical character, and four international agreements have arrived in the meantime for which there is also agreement to be put on the agenda. 2 So points: would be 1. The adoption of the minutes from the sixth session of the House of Representatives, 2. Answer MP questions, 3. Verification of the mandate of Members, 4. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 5. Review and adoption of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act, 6. Proposal for a Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 7. Proposal for amendments to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 8. Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on their status, conditions and method of use, 9. Proposal for a Decision establishing the status of buildings and land in M. Tito Street 25th and the conditions and manner of their use, 10th. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Development Credit Agreement for the Basic Protection Project between BiH and the International Development Association, (b) of the Development Credit Agreement for the pilot project of local development between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, and there is a proposal to be under c), d), e). and f). add proposals for granting consent to ratification of the following agreements c) the Structural Adjustment Loan Treaty in the process of privatisation of enterprises and banks, that would be under c), d) the Structural Adjustment Loan Treaty - Budget Support, Budget Support Loan, e) the Export Support Loan Treaty, f) the Contract of Credit for the pilot project - Cultural Heritage, The 10th Point would have six agreements under which the House of Representatives should declare whether it gives consent to ratification. 11. Here it is intended to be two sub-points, however, the conclusions are in a way that would be one document called - Conclusions on the working committees of the House of Representatives, deadlines and presence of the proposing representatives, there is a change, because these two possible papers are summed up in one document and the conclusions are one that would be to adopt conclusions on how I read earlier. 12. MPs' questions. This agenda was agreed on by the College, and it was agreed that for 22, in addition to this thematic session, a working session would be held to discuss three points that came to today's session in the form of the proposal, but did not arrive in good time and we did not have the agreement to put it at today's session. So much for the introduction. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1666	Mr Chairman, members of the College, MPs, Members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would like to give you one position of the Commission for International Relations and Foreign Affairs of the PSBiH House of Representatives. 3 Starting with the initiative of MPs: Mrs Filipović, Mr Branković, Mr Kadić and myself, and Mr Bogić Bogićević's initiative, we are pleased that the College has accepted a session on this topic dedicated to foreign policy and, in particular, to European integration in the South East Pact. In this regard, in front of the Commission, we propose the following: Today we are in the process of discussing the documents received from Mr Jadrank Prlić, on the basis of a request also verified in Parliament, we wanted to propose at this meeting the following things: 1. That Mr. Ante Jelavić, the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Presidency, the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Mr. Haris Silajdžić, and Foreign Minister, Mr. Jadrank Prlić, are asked to come forward with information relevant for the preparation of the Sarajevo conference, that Mr. Ante Jelavić, as chairman of the committee and one of those who are scheduled for this meeting with Mr. Ahtisarij, present a platform of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency on preparations for the summit, and that by the Parliament that will be held on 22 July, as we have now received confirmation, ensure that the working bodies, in this case, the Commission for Foreign Policy, but also other interested bodies, determine the documents that we received from the Foreign Minister, Mr. Prlić, must express the satisfaction that we have received one serious and complete analysis, that we are in the name of the Commission, and that we expect further information from the Commission. In order to be able to discuss these issues 22, the Foreign Policy Commission considers it important that, by this time, the representatives of Parliament, our House and the House of People, be determined according to the relevant international organisations on their obligation and submit a report that the Commission would take into account when formulating its views for July 22nd. Since it is a very important session, we express our readiness that, as the Commission for Foreign Policy and I hope the other working bodies, since it is not just political and international relations that are not at the same time related to other working bodies of this House of Representatives, we are sitting permanently until the 22nd session itself and prepare the documents as already presented by the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1667	Thank you. Mr. Bogičević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1668	I appreciate the information the chairman gave at the beginning of this session, but this does not mean that it is acceptable for the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Social Democratic Party club. In last session, I suggested that for today's session, the Stability Pact for Southeastern Europe, and the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Club did so more than a month ago, initiating the initiative and writing through the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I think that any argument would be excessive, the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe today is a priority for the entire international community, as said in point 3. The Pact, especially for the European Union, America and the Russian Federation. The Stability Pact for Southeast Europe, which, to a good extent, changes the police and other images of the region from the foundations, would have to be a priority for both the BiH Parliament and all the institutions of the BiH state. Therefore, I think that four years after the signing of the Dayton Agreement, BiH should no longer be an object, but an active participant and a constructive creator of the announced changes in the entire region that mean the development of democracy, economy and security in the region. And that's why I think the Stability Pact for South East Europe had to be on the agenda today, so I think it had to be made, from today to the end of the year, a list of obligations this Parliament would have to have in approaching the Council of Europe and all that brings us closer to European integration. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1669	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? Mr. Tokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1670	Ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, On behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I request that this session be announced through a continuous session until 22nd and that the following points be included in today's session agenda: the BiH Assembly programme, the adoption of the Immigation and Asylum Act, the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Customs Service Act. Reason: The BiH Council of Ministers has been given its mandate on the basis of the taking over of obligations to bring BiH closer and include in European integration. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH presidency have accepted the deadlines and minimum commitments to include BiH in the Council of Europe. These four laws, the most direct obligation of precisely certain structures of BiH institutions and, instead of in the future declaring ourselves who is for European integration, we are asking, as the SDP, that today the College undertakes to take a two-day break, but without vacations, to create a work programme, because it is a direct obligation from the document of the BiH reception platform to the membership of the Council of Europe. Under the heading: 1. The annual program of work of this Assembly, which, of course, paradox is that we should adopt it in August, but it is better in August and July than never, because it is an obligation that we are obliged to implement until September. Other commitments, including the reform of the BiH Council of Ministers, have also been made by the obligation that BiH, through all its delegations, through all its declarative oath that we will go to the Council of Europe, has committed to implement by September, and is now in July. In this context, we believe that, if certain entities are unable to implement these obligations, they should indeed submit both political and any other consensus, because neither today nor the people of the constituent, nor the citizens of BiH who do not advocate and seek faster involvement of BiH and the Federation. The resistance to these integrations is here, the name and last name through these four acts we have listed, and we are going to say the same thing in the entity assemblies, because it is no longer possible to have such a discrepancy between the declarative and the essential. According to us, the BiH Council of Ministers must be clearly defined, whether it is able to carry out obligations. I recall this speaker, the reform of the BiH Council of Ministers was, in which they swore both to the chairman, or co-chair, and they pledged to do so within three months. 5 Instead, at last session, the SDP proposal on the reform of the BiH Council of Ministers was returned as inadequate, and nothing new has been offered, on the contrary, going towards obstructions and blockades. I ask that each of these points of the agenda be put to the vote, so that we can see, in the form of voting, with the responsibilities, the three laws set out should be prepared by the Council of Ministers of BiH and the programme of work of the College. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1671	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the agenda? Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1672	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues, distinguished guests, In order not to make any misunderstandings about what you could hear from this pay phone from my predecessors, i.e. on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club, I would like to specify two or three things, especially about the initiative Mr. Bogičević made, which, in a certain way, seems similar, in a significant conflict compared to what we heard from Mr. Spahić and three or four MPs from the CD Coalition. In fact, we don't think 22 should hold any thematic session dedicated to the Stability Pact. We believe that what counterpart Tokić was saying specifically indicates, we believe that by the 22nd session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which, as you know, can end today, could take two days, and if we really wanted to do something, then probably, it would last until the 22nd of this month. Why do we insist on this? Indeed, we feel that it is very clear that we should all face one fact that is clear to someone, and someone who does not seem to be clear to them. To the Stability Pact and from the Stability Pact, these are two different times for us living in these areas. We cannot put together a Stability Pact to be held in Sarajevo to replace the Stability Pact. I would like to draw attention to the gathering that will be held here, will be held here despite us, it will be held here, among other things, and because we are who we are, which is not a reason to rejoice. So, I want to draw attention and therefore our initiative is moving in two directions: the first direction, that the Stability Pact rally not only at the level of traffic, the landing, the take-off of the aircraft and the Zetra and other side events, will pass in the best course, it will go in the best course, thanks to the people who organise it and who have nothing to do with this parlament, therefore, to make it as far as possible for this meeting as possible for the representatives of the state, the joint institutions, the individual entities, who will be in what form at this meeting, that at least, as they say, they feel as good as possible, and that we, in preparation for the Stability Pact, show that we have learned and understood something recently. That is why we are insisting and asking you to make it clear that this agenda, complemented by all that on the Council of Ministers of BiH or various working groups of the BiH Presidency, because they are a lot, I see in the means of information, that is, to see what can be done by 22nd, and then we have a agenda point that you have already formulated for 22. That's one thing. Secondly, we suggest that today, in view of this extended regular session, a principle decision is made on how we plan to work when the Stability Pact is over. In fact, we stand at the point of view that right after the end of that event, we need to take advantage of this event, and it really is contentally, essentially, to get off the dead end. That is why we believe that the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency should be bound by the obligation and we propose that appropriate conclusions be made in this regard that the Presidency and the 6 Council of Ministers come forward with their documents and that the relevant documents be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly no later than 15 days after the end of the Stability Pact, and that, from 15 August, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should be in constant session until that deadline which we are told is realistic, which is until our entry into the Council of Europe, which, as we hear, should be in September. So, let us agree by August 15th, at least on September 1st, to hold a permanent session of the Parliamentary Assembly until we are admitted to the Council of Europe and that the ongoing session of the Parliamentary Assembly will be in the role of our contribution to actually being adopted there. According to the statements, this permanent session will take a few days. We propose that, at the first next permanent session to be held after the Stability Pact, until then, the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency come out with what their obligations were before, which is to put a document before this Parliament, a report, as you will, from which we would clearly see where we are with the implementation of the Madrid Declaration and what can be done by the end of this year and which one is in charge. This suggests that our delegation, which represents us in the Council of Europe, should prepare for us, by 15 August, the elements of our, for us, for Parliament – the programme of action for the Council of Europe, which this Parliament would adopt. It means that we should get from the Council of Ministers of BiH, or from the BiH Presidency some kind of address to this Parliament, or perhaps the foreign minister to inform us that the international community at a recent meeting in Brussels, after a six-month period, is the first semester, where the body that decides on us has been sitting, informing us where we are and what we are expected to do in the next half of the year, so that we can, in turn, make appropriate decisions. We draw attention once again, and the reason for this kind of announcement is, we don't want us to be alone, or the Bosnian Herzegovic public, by holding a meeting called the "Stability Pact" at the highest level in Sarajevo, to replace the contents of this Stability Pact, because, be convinced, in the short run, that what is contained in the Stability Pact will be carried out despite the work that we had, which is behind us. I invite you all together to try to be, in a certain way, people who will create their own future to the extent that each of us would like it to be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1673	Thank you. Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1674	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that a member of the Commission on International Relations and Foreign Affairs, Mr Lagumdžija, gives a deep, for a reason, this commission and at Parliament's very session, and that it allows only once again to confirm the statement that I have made, that the Komsiija for Foreign Policy has been very precise in defining this position, and what it serves to repeat the views, if it is respected that this Commission has been sitting in a quorum, and that the working body of this Parliament has proposed completely identical things, if this record is carefully looked at and what I have said. As far as thematic debate on foreign policy and the Southeast Pact is concerned, let me tell you that it is very clear. The document submitted by Mr Prlić is a valuable document for the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, responding to a request that is several months old, which I have repeated several times, so that we can have a simple context for the position of Parliament, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, talk about the 7th and the Yugoslav Pact, one of the major, significant gatherings, hopefully sports, fairly held in the Zetra Sports Hall, for the benefit of all participants: Russia, America, Europe, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Balkan and Mediterranean countries. As far as we were concerned, we were very precise that we were determined according to the demands of the MPs of this house, four MPs who gave the initiative which was justified and which was accepted, and then the responsibility which, according to this initiative, was given to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other factors, which accrimated the position of MPs of this Parliament, as well as the parliamentary question and the request of Mr Bogičević, which is also an integral part of this initiative. If you look at the report, point Ad 1 accurately formulated what we heard through several statements after my address to Parliament. There is nothing different about it, very corely and exactly the other commissions and working bodies have been invited to programme, essentially, not just globally, politically, thematically talk about our declarative presence in this initiative. I asked, on behalf of the Commission, for the initiative of the members of the Commission, that other working bodies, in some way, be activated by the 22nd parliamentary session, parliament is sitting when the working bodies are also sitting, that these bodies take advantage of the possibility that what is contained and the essence of the Stability Pact itself be presented in the working bodies. It is a request that I made in this of myself, and it is not at all contrary to the requirement that permanent to 22 working bodies be determined according to the content and this conference on the Southeast Pact and stability, and, of course, other issues that are relevant to our work. Basically, with these papers we've been given, we've been made up of assumptions that we're working in these working bodies, which is why I think it's quite clear what will be one specific and one specific debate. As regards the supplementary documents, we asked Mr Jelavić, Mr Silajdžić, Mr Prlić, as responsible people who lead certain bodies in preparation for the South East Pact, this meeting in Sarajevo, to report to us today, at today's session, those who are here and who can, I see that Mr Prlić is there, and to give us information that will allow us today, in fact, and this Parliament to be directly involved in this project, and as far as the Commission and other working bodies are concerned, we had to work in line with the opportunities we have, we have documents, we know the character and importance of this initiative and we will normally determine ourselves on this basis. There is no doubt that this is a working and serious content part. I would support these initiatives on the Council's work programme, on the Assembly's work programme, all of which is very important, and I am convinced that we, as a guide to the Council of Europe, will not be admitted to the Council of Europe unless the dozens of points are adopted. This is quite clear, it is the responsibility of the College and this College has the responsibility to schedule, if necessary, every other day, and this was not the subject of the debate in the context of our conference, that is, this Commission. We believe that not only implies but is bound, when we have requested a report from our delegation to the Council of Europe and other bodies, our Parliament to finish this job, unless a delegation to the Council of Europe is going to submit a report and a programme of our procedural entry into the Council of Europe, that means that we are not fulfilling our function. So, I would not like to, in any way, assess the value of the contribution that we are in discussion by now, which would also be an invitation to work by all working bodies, and that all representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament in the European bodies and these other alliances submit a report from programme work. This involves a kind of permanent work, both Parliament and working bodies. If that's not possible, it's as clear as day that any of these entities will block us in this work. I think it's a big deal that we had today, almost parallelly, the commissions in this whole building, as far as I could see, this is the first time for one working day, representatives of almost all political parties, and even the SDP parties were participants in this Commission, they agreed with the conclusions that I put out, I felt that their consent for 8 permanent work was useful. This has been achieved, we, as the Commission, will work on it and we call on other working bodies to finish the job as planned. As far as I know, every MP has at least five kilos of material in front of him that we need to go through, the College and this Secretariat are meant to organize properly. We felt it was important to draw attention to this for the first time and to have in mind, perhaps because of this summit, I don't know why, but it happened to be responsible for MPs' initiatives. I find it very important and let us then work these seven days, instead of agreeing how we have working bodies, everyone has their responsibility as MPs, to sit down and stay in Sarajevo and finish the job. I think we can bear such a cost for internal organisation and representation, so start with the role of Parliament that it must have in this summit. It doesn't matter before or after what happens after this summit, but I don't like the feeling that I was in some sort of, as I would say, random encounter, we have a simple program that won't be accepted. I can also ask the following question: Does Parliament have the power to order its ministers in the BiH Council of Ministers representing certain parties to come out with the programme, not to read in the paper that the programme is being delayed indefinitely. That's another question. I ask that the programme be sent to us, there is no reason, first of all, we have not adopted our own programme, we have not adopted our own rules of procedure, we have not adopted the work here, we are only the first time after so many months to adopt questions that will be discussed by every working body in this House. We have yet to adopt a procedure whether the proponent is responsible to come before each committee and submit a report, what it requires and what it expects of its commission and Parliament. So let's not complicate things. Let's try to start this work today, and our proposal is that Mr. Prlić come out with the most basic information because we can't discuss everything, and that seven days in a row we're working on this job, it's a serious job for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1675	Thank you, here you go, Mr. Čašimanović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1676	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable Members, there are two reasons why I came forward: First, I did not quite understand what Dr. The Lagumdžija thought when he said this meeting about the Stability Pact was in spite of us? I wouldn't open that debate, but I'd like to say that this meeting is being held because of us, because of us, for us, that's the first reason. The second reason I answered, I'd like to ask you to be a little more efficient. I think we're talking about the agenda, but we're going out and we've got the whole exposés and then we forget to adopt the agenda. Not diminishing the importance of all the points that are open today, as important, I consider them very important, I would like to make my contribution to making it more efficient to get out of this. As I recall, the chairman said that in the next two days, by Tuesday, a wider College will be held and the agenda will be set for 22nd, for this thematic and regular session. I suggest that we declare this session, with the agenda as proposed, in a permanent session until 22, that today we discuss these points that are proposed, and that in two days the College determines the continuation and extension of the agenda of this session and that we schedule it, taking into account all these points that my predecessors have spoken of. I think we'd start by adopting the agenda and moving on to what's important, so, the adoption of these points. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1677	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1678	For the sake of clarification and for the accuracy of putting a later vote on what this was about, since after me the debater explained that, what he suggested is the same thing as we proposed. So that I don't enter into any kind of dialogue, really, I have no intention of going to mutual exhaustion and to be in contact with anyone here, to argue, either I or any of us who want to consult. I want to say two things: 1. A concrete proposal concerning the permanent meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly after the maintenance of the Stability Pact with a transparent date on August 15th, it would take so long for the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, our delegations, to begin with the meeting for which an operational programme for the realisation of the Madrid document would be established, then an operational programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe and a third document, which the relevant ministry with the Presidency and the Council of Ministers should do 15 days after the end of the Stability Pact, a document that would indicate to us what obligations, for us and for every one with whom we have ties, stem from the Declaration on the Stability Pact that will take place in 15 days. So these are three concrete conclusions that we need to be very clear and precise about. And for the sake of clarification, yes, Mr. Čašimanović, you're right, the Stability Pact is being maintained for our sake and for us. When I say it works for us and for us, I think of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and when I say it despite us and it is true, because the Stability Pact is being maintained despite us, it is, behold, this Parliament as it is, despite this concept of government which today rules Bosnia and Herzegovina, despite the way that Bosnia and Herzegovina manages, both entities and all cantons and most of the municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, the Stability Pact, unfortunately, is being maintained despite us, a part of us and I sitting in this Parliament, and a part of these, thank Bog, are neither SDP nor I. That's despite you. Despite you who rule this country, this Stability Pact will be held. That it is fortunate that there is no need to maintain the Stability Pact here, that we are a normal country, as we will be, for our sakes, from the people of this country, will be a normal country that will not need the Stability Pacts and will not need the gatherings that are held in Zetra in order for us to get in line. Dear colleagues and dear colleagues, I want to know very clearly who we are and who you are, despite who we are and who you are because of this.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1679	I ask future debaters, if there are any, to, however, focus on the agenda. Is there anyone else on the agenda to suggest or comment? As far as I can tell, no one's answering. Now we'll approach the plea. Please, we had a proposal from the College, we're going to put the draft agenda of the College on a statement, and after that, these initiatives that can, in some ways, be reconciled, and, if such agenda is adopted, that, eventually, the suggestions of the MPs who had around the agenda be brought to terms with this agenda. So I call on the MPs to declare, first of all, the proposal of the College on the agenda as read from these 12 points. Please, who wants to propose this agenda, raise your hand? 10 28 of the 34 MPs present. So most MPs voted in favour of the proposed agenda and we have a majority per entity, given the total number of votes given. Therefore, the agenda, the draft agenda by the College, was adopted. Please. I respect that. Please, then, we'll hold the vote until the end. We vote within this majority, let's see, by entities. And we'll keep everything else, so we'll be consistent. So, please, from the Federation's space, who's for the agenda proposal? From the Federation of BiH. 16, we have most of the Federation of BiH space. Please, from Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? 11, so we have the required majority. Please, the proposal was adopted by majority of votes and the majority required by the entity. The 28 votes were for the total, 16 from the Federation of BiH and 11 from Republika Srpska's space. Someone either didn't vote or didn't follow. As a technical remark, please pay attention to the vote, but essentially the proposal has been adopted. Please, who is therefore the required number of votes from the RS and the Federation of BiH. Who's against the proposed agenda, please? So no one. Who's being held back? Six annoying. I ask the MPs, 34 present MPs, to participate in the vote. It can be voted for, against and abstention, but I ask the MPs that we all plead, because if this doesn't appear to us with the records, we have problems with this. So the draft agenda as proposed by the College was adopted. Afterwards, we had several suggestions that mainly refer to how to use time until the birth of the Pact and after the birth of the Pact, I guess they are now two stages. One proposal is that by the 22nd, as the College proposed, which I explained at the outset, that Monday the Commission is meeting, that the extended College, composed of representatives of all parties, prepare all documents, all necessary and possible joint document that Parliament would adopt and that the session be held on Thursday. It's consistent with the College. Mr Spahić made the first proposal. He presented to the Commission a proposal to request information that is important for the preparation of this session by the Council of Ministers of BiH, by the BiH Presidency, by all delegations of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament which are in the Council of Europe, the OSCE, etc., which information is important for European integration, for the Council of Europe, for the Stability Pact and to be in favour of the quality preparation of this session. It was therefore a proposal by Mr Spahić to adopt the conclusion, therefore, of such a message. And also that Mr Prlić, at today's session, submitted a brief report on the preparations for the Stability Pact so far. Please, who is for this proposal, as I have now formulated, who has submitted Mr Spahić? Who's to draw this conclusion? This is not about the completion of the agenda, but about the conclusion that is in the function of preparing the next session. Who's in, please? So, another point of view, that the other commissions also hold their meetings until Tuesday and prepare their contribution, therefore, to this extended College. Who is to this conclusion, please plead 1130 for. Thank you. The proposal was passed. We'll hold the vote until the end, by entities, we've got most of it. Who's kept from these conclusions? Five abstentions. Who's against it, please? No one's against it. So 30 and 5, so 35 MPs are present. The adoption of these conclusions means that before we move to the agenda, Mr Prlić will submit shorter information on the preparations for the Stability Pact so far. Let's move on, please. After that, we had another proposal from Mr. Bogičević, Mr. Tokić and Mr. Lagumdžija. I must tell you that in front of the SDP MPs' Club, the proposal was this: On behalf of the MPs' Club, we suggest you schedule a session of the House of Representatives with a agenda point: the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe. I understood it as a request for a thematic session and so it reads, no deadlines, no continuing session, no others. In the meantime, there was likely a different view of this issue and suggestions. Mr Tokić suggested that we have a continuous session until the very meeting of the Stability Pact, to prepare three laws at the time of the BiH Council of Ministers, you heard what laws, the Law on Asylum, the Law on the Council of Ministers, the Law on Customs Policy, and that the College prepares a programme of Parliament's work. So, while Parliament's capture continues to continue until the Stability Pact is maintained. That's one suggestion. Here you go, Tokić, a supplement, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1680	After the presentation of Ibrahim Spahić, there is indeed a need to clearly define the proposal we insist on. Under the Social Democratic Party, no information will take this country to the Council of Europe. We inform us about what we are and how well we know, and therefore, instead of informing Prlić for the next session how this process is going, the BiH Council of Ministers should implement the commitments undertaken. Never has this tall House, in its history of action, since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, been in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers for any legal act. I suggest that today this House, in accordance with the obligations of the Council of Ministers of BiH, took over when you chose it, when you believed that it would make a three-month reform of the Council of Ministers and that these laws would be implemented in two or two or a half months, etc., we did not believe, we were skeptical, to be in charge of doing so, to see if they could do so. I'm very skeptical that they can do it. Therefore, our proposal, the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, tasks the BiH Council of Ministers by this month 22 to prepare proposals for the customs service, immigration and asylum laws, the BiH Council of Ministers, as a minimum. The House of Representatives owes the College of the House of Representatives until 22nd, and there is no reason in this session to invent a special extraordinary session, which we think we agree in principle, but here we do not insist on this excessive form, prepare the work programme, what this Assembly will do by the end of this year, according to these papers that we have received and what we know. We know the madridski conference, we know what, like Parliament, we have to do. In my opinion, if the BiH Council of Ministers can't fulfil its obligations, it would really be my turn to offer a resignation. That makes perfect sense. On the contrary, we have even the appearances that the BiH Council of Ministers has been non-shallantly, through its two, three, how many chairman-in-Offices, the chairman-in-Office, allegedly telling them that their accession to Europe is blocked by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd say 12, I heard the nebulosis the other day. Let them choose to make their own laws. Last time we proposed some of those laws that they were supposed to do, so they didn't like it, so let them propose those laws, because they can suggest. Therefore, each of these legal acts and the conclusion, beware, this is not about fighting the SDP or any other political party, but about restoring the dignity of this House. This House has never been in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers. This House is generally demeaning by the BiH Council of Ministers in a way that a day or a half an hour before the VMBIH session says: this is what you must adopt for us today. Let's turn the board around. Let's leave the BiH Council of Ministers for seven days to make technical preparations for the summit, to do its job that should be done in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1681	This is, therefore, I ask you yes, the hour around the agenda is stated, the hour around the conclusion. The proposal was a continuous session by 22nd, with the BiH Council of Ministers preparing the three laws, and the College preparing a work programme. This is now more clearly repeated, therefore, the task of ordering the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare these laws and that the College prepares a work programme which, therefore, exists in the draft. Mr. Tokić, does this mean that you are giving up the proposal to continue the session until 22nd, or do you remain in Parliament's constant session until 22nd?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1682	Look, I apologize, in principle, for this to be provided, it has to be kept in session, and if it will [[speaking from the site doesn't understand]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1683	We've already adopted bodies, colleges, etc. I therefore put to the vote the proposal concludes that it has ordered Parliament to the Council of Ministers a lot of things so far, but that we are here. So, the proposal is that Parliament's House of Representatives orders the Council of Ministers to prepare these three laws by 22nd, not to repeat, and the College to prepare a programme of work for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1684	It is very good that I have heard Mr. Tokić's precise clarification of what he expects of us, and what he expects of the Council of Ministers. Since I've seen, like you, the draft work programme, the draft rules of procedure, as well as the draft organisation, I hope you've seen that. I'd like to ask the President and the College. Do we need 15 times to go out for this pay phone and convince ourselves and prove the work programme of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament? I'd like to oblige the College to officially present to us a document that it has and I don't see any reason not to present it. I don't think there's any need to make any conclusions again when it's the first commitment this House has made and, if you remember, I've asked for it three times, the Rules of Procedure and the Work Programme. You have records, fortunately. The work programme of this Parliament depends not on anyone but on this Parliament. I ask that the College simply does not draw any particular conclusion from this, but that the College should put, such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, upon request, forward its report to our College to submit a proposal for a programme that has or has a draft. I'm not suggesting, but I'm asking you to deliver it today, because there's a College here, I know they're working on it in the Secretariat, like you know, and I suggest we just get it and put it in the procedure that we're putting on, we don't need anyone outside of us. 13 And let us not invent warm water. The line we've been talking about, we've been talking about since this congregation was elected. Five times, here, take the records and check it out. Various MPs have asked for a program, from whom, from ourselves. The college here has three members, has a temporary Secretariat, let us deliver the program without a break today, and let us be clear about it, if it should be tomorrow and if it should be in seven days. And you wouldn't make a big policy out of running it. It's a clean thing, if the College can't do it, someone else will do it, then some new college, but as far as the Council of Ministers of BiH, all the laws you mentioned, as far as I know, those laws are blocked, not because of this Parliament and not because of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but because of the political parties and these groups sitting here in this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. And I propose that an extended College with representatives of all parties that are participating in this House make one decision that will be practical, give some political parties unblock this problem, i.e. the Council of Ministers and Parliament. Because if these parties continue to play hide-and-seek with us, all the parties that make up Parliament, one way or another, we will transfer responsibility between the Council and Parliament. I ask that, in this pause today, the College be held with representatives of political parties, to assess whether it is, in fact, a game of cats and mice these few months, the last five, six around the work programme of the Council, about the work programme of Parliament, about these laws, in fact, a delay, which Zlatko has quite right and obstructing decisions that must finally be made, such as this anthem that we have heard, declared by Mr Karlos Vestendorp, in a certain state or, let's say, to be some other model of action. So I suggest we really try to find a way out of this. We must, everywhere in the world, have a ministry in charge of relations between the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers or the government and parliament. Who co-ordinates the government and parliament here when they're MPs and we're all in the same status. They are both MPs and ministers. We have a responsibility here, which is why I support this position of yours, I will vote for all three of these proposals, because it's 15 times that we vote for the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1685	Okay. Thank you. Please, we have joined a statement on the proposals of MPs for the agenda, there is absolutely no point in jumping in, to carry out one question, one proposal, so let's go to another, the debate on the agenda is over. Everyone had a chance to take it out and say, please respect that, especially when a proposal for a agenda is put forward which is a dialogue on the Stability Pact. We discuss the agenda, something that is an integral part of the debate at the summit session, 22, and two pages to just record what the man said. It's impossible, I mean that way. Let's focus on the agenda, formulate clearly and make a statement about the proposals at last. Mr. Rakić. Please keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1686	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow MPs, I think this debate really doesn't make sense anymore. There's no need for a number of reasons. I accept one of the proposals, which is that we must make a programme of work for this Parliament. If we make and adopt Parliament's work programme, we will resolve all these other conclusions that are proposed. So, we're talking today about a permanent session, and we don't have any documents from any of our national authorities, to say the least. We don't have Bureau documents, platforms, no Council of Ministers, etc. And that now, as MPs, we're creating a political platform, I think it's absurd. I'm not saying that we're not 14 able to create it and we need to create it, but we have to get the material based on which we can lead the debate and say that's it. Second thing I suggest, on Tuesday, if we have that political party meeting and this material for Thursday. Let us once agree on the system of work of this Parliament. Let's really say what priorities are, not play hide-and-seek here and not politicize. I responsibly claim that we are politicizing, and we have a million economic and other problems that we are pushing aside, we are not going to solve, and we have to solve that. So let's set some basic principles for how we're going to do, what we want to do, and what principles we can work on. All this is politicizing, in my opinion, and it will lead us further into a dead end and we will not accept any agreement. Therefore, I would only suggest that it be accepted that the Presidency do the programme, present it Tuesday at this consultation meeting of the Colleges and members of the political parties when we discuss both these materials and that the meetings of the Assembly are regular because there is no basis for being extraordinary, we have no material.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1687	Thank you. We approach the statement on Mr. Tokić's proposal as you have heard. A request from the BiH Council of Ministers for three laws and a request from the College for a work programme. Who's in favor of this proposal's conclusion, please raise your hand, who's in favour? Of the 34 present in Sally, 15 is in favour. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's against it? No one's against it. Who's being held back? Four didn't vote again. I ask you to establish the MPs present, I have just been informed by the technical services that 34 MPs are present. Please establish a quorum. There are currently 30 MPs present in the hall, 3 MPs are currently outside, Prlić has left because he has scheduled a session of diplomatic staff and he will be here in one half hour, please keep this in mind. Thirty MPs present. Mr. Tokić's request is to repeat the vote. Who's in favour of Mr. Tokić's proposal? 14's in. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. We're moving on to the next proposal. We must honor the request of the MPs. Who's for the proposal, please, all of them, who's for? 15 for it. Who's against it? And this is how Parliament's seriousness is achieved. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's being held back? Sixteen, fifteen, Mr. Banjac arrived in the meantime, 30 plus one. Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. Mr Bogičević suggested that the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe should be discussed today, that this issue should be discussed at today's session, that the agenda be complemented and that by the next session, a list of commitments this Parliament is required to make on the subject of convergence with European integrations. Who is it to add to today's session to consider the Stability Pact for Southeast Europe? Six. Do you insist on voting until the end, Mr. Bogičević, is it necessary? Mr. Lagumdžija had more suggestions, so we're gonna have to help ourselves. 15 One of the proposals is to complete the agenda with a work group report on what should be done until the Stability Pact summit. That was one suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1688	Let me make it easy for you. [[from place]] I'm giving up everything except three proposals because they're pointless after this rejection topic. All my proposals regarding the Stability Pact, I give up on them, because after this kind of relationship of power in parliament, there is really no need for us to get any further weed. Forget all my suggestions, I withdraw them, those concerning the Stability Pact. Since this has been the case, I would ask you to state that within 15 days of the Stability Pact, within the appropriate period, it does not have to be 15 days, that the session for which the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers and our delegations in the Council will be prepared with the appropriate documents. The programme of implementation of the Madrid Declaration, the Council of Ministers, a programme of admission to the Council of Europe with responsibilities, and the realization of what stems from the Stability Pact, the BiH Council of Ministers in co-operation with the Presidency and the relevant ministries. And I ask that those three, each individual, be heard. To schedule a session of Parliament at which competent institutions will put it on the agenda... Will it be regular or permanent or continuous...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1689	Okay. Thank you. It seems to me that there would be logical proposals of this kind, otherwise, and at this session that will be presented 22, because the debate will be precisely in that sense, obligations and tasks and future activities on the Stability Pact. However, regardless of what we say about the agenda, for today's session we will put to the vote and this proposal, which is a proposal for some of the next sessions. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1690	Dear gentlemen, I think Mr. Lagumdji's proposals are constructive, but I don't think it's time and that maybe a 15-day period should be extended. Maybe it's not even in line with what we're doing right now to vote on it, but if Mr. Lagumdžija insists, no problem, we'll vote. I suggest that that deadline be 30 days, so it's real, don't let us do it, and then we'll outwit ourselves here why whoever didn't do it. We're going to honor the deadline that's possible. It's not a little paperwork, it's not a simple job, it needs people to gather, it needs to be done, it needs to be done seriously, and it needs to be realized, which is the most important thing. I ask you, if possible, to accept this suggestion to be 30 days.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1691	Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1692	For the sake of correctness, for the sake of a record that does not always reflect the real situation, I, my colleague Banjac, would indeed, respect what you have said now, as your willingness to do something 16, I am ready to now accept as a joint proposal that these three documents be prepared, that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should, I repeat, be prepared by the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare for us what is called the operationalisation of the Madrid document, which laws, until when, what should be done, what should be done, what is the next task. For the Council of Europe, our delegation, together with the Council of Ministers and the Stability Pact – the Presidency, its competences that we can give him, the Parliamentary Assembly – the relevant committee and the Council of Ministers and that the deadline should be, that the Parliamentary Assembly with that agenda of the three points be within 30 days of the Stability Pact. Here I call you, it's completely irrelevant, not to be outsmart, I fully accept your suggestion, I think we should get ahead of ourselves, I think we should do it right now, three days after that, I honestly think, I honestly think the mass of things can start right now. There's no problem. Here, Ibro, let that be your suggestion, here, this now, let it be whoever you want, this is the proposal that came out of the debate. My colleague Banjac has modified it. I suggest we take this as a common position. And I'm giving up all the other proposals and voting and anything.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1693	There's no need to repeat, since Mr. Lagumdžija has now clearly stated three things, a 30-day deadline for the Banjac proposal. Mr. Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1694	As far as this programme for the Council of Europe is concerned, I think we should be shorter and we should not hesitate on this matter, if the programme that will be offered by a parliamentary delegation in the Council of Europe, we have finished the programme, we can immediately offer it to Parliament for adoption, so at least on this issue I insist on a shorter period, and, as far as I know, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a platform that is not difficult to translate into an operational programme of activities, precisely with the carriers. But, as a whole, I think Dr. Lagumdzija's proposal can be supported, in the original proposal he made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1695	I'm gonna try and make some kind of compromise right now. Anything that is ready, such as the delegation's report in the Council of Europe, and the rest to be prepared for 22, to be subject to consideration, the rest that does not exist, to be prepared within 30 days, of all that is stated. Is that how we end this? Anything that happens, we will immediately send before the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly requests to try to prepare these three papers, which will be on the agenda of the 22nd, which will not be, the duty will be, the request of the Parliamentary Assembly will be to prepare within 30 days and will then be the subject of the then session. Who's to this conclusion, please? Twenty-five for it. Please, who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? Five abstentions. We have to hold a vote on the entities. 25 was for, we have most. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 17 19 from the Federation of BiH. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? Six. There is a necessary majority from both entities' space, therefore the conclusion was adopted. Thank you. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1696	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow MPs, today I have tried to be maximum cooperative, not to dispute what is logical, not to argue and if there are things that can be challenged, but please the chairman, we have concluded the debate on the agenda an hour and more time ago. There are thousands of good proposals that can be translated into the conclusions of this home, which are necessary, logical, etc., if we want to complicate things. I don't really see the needs, I think the most constructive proposal was Mr. Rakić. That the Parliamentary Assembly Representative Council adopts a programme of its work, when it will be known when the Council of Ministers reports this House, when the Presidency is going with active proposals towards this House and when we start working normally. We attack a detour of work that is not in the scope of our work. I'm asking you, I'm going to try to be as cooperative as I can today, although there are thousands of reasons to go with new proposals now. Please stick to the agenda. Let us adopt until we have the programme of work of the Parliamentary Assembly representative council, which is most needed. I just want to draw attention to one thing, it's not this time of pre-election campaign, I guess there's still a long time until the election, I don't see that there's any need here for anyone to point out who's for a stable BiH, who's for the Southeast European Stability Pact, etc. But it won't only be achieved by our beautiful story. And let's not bid on who's in favour here, who's against when the complete apparatus of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions is unprepared. Complete, no exceptions. We don't have any written material to talk today about a permanent session of the Parliamentary Assembly's representative council, or a continuous session until the next session, and we won't say in our eyes that we're not ready, and now we're talking in front of the cameras about how we should, lo and behold, for seven days, I wish we had accepted today's continuing session. You know how long it'll be over in 20 minutes. It's a public deception. But we need to get representatives of the joint institutions to do their jobs, to know when they're going to this house and we need to discuss the things they've done. And that's why I'm asking you, I'm saying, I'm going to do my best to be as cooperative as I can, but I'm asking the others that we don't needlessly complicate things in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1697	We're going to work on a set agenda. 1st item of the agenda: The adoption of the minutes from the 6th session of the PSBiH House of Representatives you have received. Please, who has any objections? Mr. Lagumdžija. 18
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1698	I would ask, Mr. Chairman, that only a change be made to the record, on the third page of the record, Ad. 6. Draft law establishing a joint police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking. It's the law I filed with this house about half a year ago, and he finally came to the agenda at the last session. The minutes here state that the commission has been considering the report and here it says that the proposed draft law was voted by 15 MPs, that ten MPs voted against, that four MPs were abstentioned. I don't argue that that's how it was, and I'm sure it was. But here in the record, it says that the draft law establishing a common police force to combat terrorism, inter-entity crime and unauthorized drug trafficking has not been adopted because it has not received the necessary majority. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 7, point 1 and point 2 b., this Law has been given to a supra-almost majority, because 15 is greater than 10 plus 4, so 15 is greater than 14, still, and that means that the zakon has received most of it. However, he did not get the necessary majority to be accepted, it does not stand here, says here: he did not get the required majority, he did not get the required majority, he should follow the same attitude as for the law, which you had, on the coat of arms, as Ad 4. which says: - that the BiH coat of arms law was not adopted, he did not get the necessary entity majority, and, since, in the vote, there was no entity majority, he will act in accordance with the Interim Rules of Procedure to bring this proposal into line. So you have to approach the alignment of this proposal, because I just didn't have an entity majority, and I had most because 15 is greater than 14. That's what the record says, just ask your colleagues to agree, because they didn't agree, and I'm just asking you to try to get along, so you don't agree, that it goes back to the procedure as it was. I expect that you would now have to agree because the Presidency, five days after you rejected this law, gave the Council of Ministers or some working group a homework, I don't know who, that this is a law on the common customs service, which, in practice, comes from this law that you refused at the last session, is the Law on Border Service. Since that proposal isn't, then I'd like to ask for this to change in writing and for you to approach the alignment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1699	Thank you. Any other comments on the record? The record actually states that it is 14 and 15, or it is possible that one of the MPs has not spoken, the stenogram has, so the proposal has not received the required majority, 15 is for that, 33 is present. The proposal did not receive the necessary majority of MPs' votes, we do not have to vote on entities and determine and implement the vote until the end. Who's being held back? 4. Who's against it? Ten. With these results, one of the MPs present has not spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1700	kolega Genjac, at point 4, you had a law quite different where 16 MPs voted in favour, and 15 were abstentions and against, then joined the alignment. So there were 16 instead of 15. It doesn't matter how many of us were at the beginning, it matters how many of us there are when there's a voice point and there's a agenda point. [[speaks from place, faints]] There's no need to go out. 19
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1701	If you remember, at each point we determined the quorum because there was dating and entering the hall, there was a stenogram, when voting at point 4, there was 31 MPs, voted 16, most of them, that simple mathematics, it seems sometimes very complex, but it can be made simple. That's the problem, there's a stenogram saying how many were present at each point, that's what this is about. According to the stenogram, at the time of the vote, most of the MPs present did not vote in favour of the law on this. The record lists those who have declared themselves, and the stenogram is more detailed, so we can assign a commission, administrative or legal, to establish the situation. To determine the condition of the stenogram and the record, the state of things, no problem at all. That's what I suggest, your suggestion about the record will be entered and will be approached and that's the problem solved. It does not mean that we will agree, we need to establish in the stenogram the situation and in the record state, please, the matter is very simple at the moment of the vote in the stenogram, you, Mr Lagumdžija, is not clear, and I am very clear, at the moment of the vote, according to the stenogram, there were 33 MPs, established, written here, on the tape, 33 present, of those 33, 15 voted for, according to my maths, 15 was less than half of 33, that's the problem, it seems, because at that moment there were 31 MPs present, and 16 was more than half of 31. That's it. We do not write in the record every moment the MPs present, although in the stenogram, therefore the stenogram serves, sir, after all, the law has long been done by the Council, and it will be adopted. The conclusion is: that the Secretariat shall establish the status of the stenogram and the state of the record and that Lagumdžijin’s remark is entered in today’s minutes. Here you go, Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1702	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, There are no problems here, we have been present before, indeed, one that the College will not accept the obligation to create a programme of work, members of the BiH Council of Ministers who abuse the function of MPs, are against doing the law, chairing the Commission and a delegation that goes to Strasbourg to affirm us in the Council of Europe, against the fact that the laws that are the obligations of the Council of Europe and the programme of work of this Assembly are passed. Now, on top of all that, if you can stand the public's eyes this laziness, that the law didn't get the required majority by being 14 against, and 15 for, you can do it, I really remind you that sometimes there will be writing about all the absurdities, all the nonsense about all the lazinesses that have been made, and indeed, because of the House we sit in, don't insist on that conclusion. The law fell because it was 14 against and 15 for, there are no problems, but that voting machine and that inert, there's no need for a majority opinion to be, since, by this, retained, cannot be affirmed in numbers in such a way, it's really ugly, I would ask the College to formulate it differently. Or it's a fake in the record, but don't stay on the record that the Law wasn't passed because it got more than half the majority present.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1703	Please, let's find out. You will get a replica, just, who has so much time to spend it, I really don't have, not the Council of Ministers of BiH refused to do the laws, not the House of Representatives refused, the College refused to work on a work programme because the work programme was 20 ready, not a delegation refused and said that the report from the Delegation and the Council of Europe was ready, we did not say that it was adopted, that the law was not adopted because such a vote, I said that the sekretarijat and the Administrative or Constitutional Commission, whose responsibility is to establish a state of voting, not prejudicing the possible conclusion, whether it was a mistake, whether the law got most, I am not prejudged, just saying that someone should level the stenograms and records. The matter is then completed, if it can be accepted, if it cannot, if there is a desire to adopt it at all costs as someone asks, it is already not democratic. The proposal is to take a professional look at the stenogram, look at the record, look at the level of the situation, and see what it is like, and to inform us, it is a proposal, it is not prejudged, but to accept someone's opinion at all costs that it is, it would not agree with such a non-democratic approach, it is. Mr. Bičakčić, he's reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1704	Mr. President, I am ispravljati the allegation that I am against, as the chairman of the delegation, against this proposal. Against what Mr Tokić is, he made it clear to many citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and every child in Bosnia and Herzegovina knows that, but the way he seeks to score here, where points do not exist, exceeds the standards of a democratic debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1705	Thank you. Mr. Tomić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1706	Dear fellow MPs, allow me to point in the form of a replica to the position of the BiH Council of Ministers and my vote at this session today. First of all, I am extremely fond of the precision that requires the revision of the minutes, but obviously, in the intention of disabling Parliament's work, as is possible at the moment, is not as precise. Mr. Tokić, I voted against your conclusion in the package because it was not precise, the Customs Service Act is not a condition for admission to the Council of Europe, but it is called the Border Service Act, so it is something that is completely different and not related to the Madrid Conference, you said exactly that, and I respect precision and therefore cannot vote for something that is not exactly in your proposal. When it comes to the work of this Parliament, let me inform you that, most likely by the next session of Parliament, the Council of Ministers of BiH will complete a comprehensive work on a work programme that will, practically, cover an entire term of office that includes more than 20 cells of text of the work of all the joint institutions, the Council of Ministers, and which will serve and be the basis for the work of this Parliament. The Parliament's work programme, which includes the work programme of the BiH Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and all the joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the only basis for the correct work of this Parliament and, in this context, I fully support Mr Rakić's debate, because without it and by doing so we would simply solve all of these, to say so, all initiatives, ideas, side-to-side, side-to-side, opposition or ruling, any and all institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina would have the right to do what they do. So, the BiH Council of Ministers also has answers, and we have passed a law on the revision at the 21st session, not yet headed towards Parliament, but we already have ten laws that have not passed Parliament, and now we come to an absurd situation, the proposals of the law on Parliament itself, the new initiative, and what we have already done and prepared, do not pass this same parliament. So, indeed, it is an absurd situation for this reason that it is an important programme of work as an expression of the political will of this Parliament and that there is no dilemma that this law should or should not, if we adopt it in the work programme, if we have adopted certain activity, international agreement, reform, etc., then it should be completed. In this context, I propose that Parliament insist on what I support the conclusion of the Parliament's Work Programme and all other joint institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1707	Thank you, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1708	It is really embarrassing to respond when you have been meeting with various forms of misinformation for years, but when on the spot, in the assembly procedure, someone who tends to be a serious politician, by the way, and a member of the government and member of parliament, which, of course, is not legal under our system and current Election Law, when, therefore, one such person obviously tries to disabling people in the hall, then it is really ugly, and I would ask all members of the Parliamentary Assembly present here to take a document from the Council of Ministers of BiH, realising foreign policy in 1999, there before the end when it comes to the annex of the BiH Platform to join the Council of Europe, to really see, in principle, the customs service, i.e. The Customs Service Act, at the same time, can be taken by another act which is not an integral part of this, that it is potentially not a printing problem, etc. This one is in Cyrillic, also sent from the Council of Ministers of BiH, in which it is logically said that it is necessary for the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications to prepare the work version of the Customs Service Act, and these are the two papers that I have, with different dates, with the same obligation that should have been fulfilled long ago, and now, if we are trying here in this way, after all, in front of the public, to take out that it is correctly written, and that it is read, as it is written, then I would vote for, and try to post-festum to talk about the programme of work of this Parliament, against which most voted for, including Mr Bičakčić, for whom it is to, behold, every child to see that man, therefore, goes to Strasbourg, there is, of course, we are talking to the Council of Europe, when it is necessary, he and his party and the leadership of this Assembly, in which his party has the highest degree of responsibility, and all of responsibility, to implement it, of all of course, the documents. I hope it is a policy of the past, like this incorrect one -- which, quite logically, in our terms, Mr. Neven Tomić could be called a lie.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1709	I'm asking you to give up the replica, really, if at all. Here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1710	First of all, the document you are referring to is not the Council of Ministers' document, but the foreign ministry, that is different, let's be precise. The second thing, the Madrid Declaration, which is the basis for entry into the Council of Europe, does not call anywhere for the establishment of a customs service, but for the border service, therefore, is not 22 at all an exact request from the Council of Europe for the adoption of the Customs Service Act, but rather a regulation of the issue of the border service, as stated in the Madrid Declaration. A document followed by the foreign ministry can write whatever it wants, but it is not a Council of Ministers document from the BiH Foreign Ministry, and the issue should be cleared with the foreign ministry, not with the BiH Council of Ministers, whose not a document.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1711	Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1712	We are discussing the minutes after a series of replicas in which we should finally accept the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has nothing to do with the Council of Ministers of BiH, so if you can accept it, Mrs. Havel, I see that you are in disrepute loudly for so long, since both of you from your ruling political structure, accept that the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of the Council have no connection, then I am, indeed, wrong, then I would ask you that, if the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, write to you whatever they want, that such materials do not come to us, that you, first in the Council, clear it up Jadranko Prlić and You, as leaders as one of the ruling political options, so do not distract us with those formulations.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1713	Thank you. As far as I can tell, there's no replica and I thank you. I propose that the minutes from the previous session be adopted with the observation of Mr Lagumdžija and with a request from the Commission on constitutional issues, together with the Sekretarijat, check the stenogram and the minutes and determine the situation and report to the House of Representatives on what it is. I suggest the conclusion that I have formulated it, that the minutes be adopted, and that it be established. Who's up for it? 24's in. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Five abstentions. Thank you. I find that we've adopted this conclusion as an additional one. We move to the next item of the agenda: Answers to MPs' questions A certain systematization of MPs' questions has been made and what has been requested in response, a number of MPs have received answers to questions and I call on MPs to make a statement. So, the answer to Mr. Rakić's question has come to the question of what does the BiH Council of Ministers do to repair the damage caused in Republika Srpska after the NATO Pact attacks on Yugoslavia? The foreign ministry responded 12.7. 23 The answer came to the question of MP Spahić, who asked that Jadranko Prlić, foreign minister, report on foreign policy and the engagement of the MIP in priorities related to the European Community and entry into the Council of Europe, as well as on BiH's position today. MIP response arrived 13.7. The answer came to the question of MPs, Mrs Havel, - why does Parliament's delegation not participate in the CEI meeting in Prague, which takes place in 6.8, the response arrived 7.7. The MPs' reply came, Mrs Muminagić, who asked the BiH Council of Ministers to provide information on the results of the Donor's Conference, held on 20 and 21 May 1999, which provided the funds, which BiH's commitments, to implement how the implementation of the commitments would be carried out, the Council of Ministers responded 15.7, so today. These are parliamentary questions that have already been asked, which have been answered. I think it would be most practical if MPs were to make a statement, if there were anyone who might not be satisfied with the answer, noting that we would update the other questions and that the requests were sent to all the addressees to answer the questions asked. Are there any MPs who are not satisfied with the answer and ask for further clarifications? Here you go, Mr. Spahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1714	Gentlemen, I am very pleased that we have received answers to some questions, but I am not satisfied that I do not see why I do not have an answer to two fundamental questions, here it was left behind, first of all, in this matter, it was already asked in 10.12.1998, I asked the question - it is not exactly stated, whether a group of representatives who would work on making a permanent Rules of Procedure was already formed, I was also told that this temporary sekretarijat would do so and that the Rules of Procedure would be put into the procedure. To date, the draft Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives which regulates many of these questions is simply not in our hands. So, I'm asking that for the next session, so that I don't get complicated right now, not to send any answers, but to play in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives. The second part of my question at the time would be what Mr. Rakić has formulated precisely today. I am now asking for this so that, you can look at the stenogram, so that it can be agreed to this record, we have then asked that the program of work of the Assembly be considered together with the Rules of Procedure. And since this has not happened today, I have been creating seven, eight months of confusion, I propose the following solution: That the programme, which we have heard from our colleagues that there is a draft of the Rules of Procedure and we have heard that there is a draft of the Rules of Procedure, is directed by the College to the MPs, in the regular procedure of working bodies, and, if possible, immediately, without a deadline. Secondly, I propose that the College hold a working meeting with the Council of Ministers to bring the Council of Ministers and Parliament's House of Representatives in line. If these suggestions could be accepted, I would be pleased with an answer that would no longer be written, but I would like to have in my hands this draft programme, both officially, and so, and ask that a regular relationship be established between the College and the Council of Ministers, in which they will be reported on how the legal procedures are under way and how the procedures are being conducted, primarily in relation to the programme. 24
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1715	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can answer that? Mrs. Havel.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1716	Honored ladies and gentlemen, Ibić be very brief. The answer to my question why our delegation did not participate in the CEI meeting in Prague from 6th to 8th was literally this: due to delays in the reconciliation of entity governments' obligations. This answer, I think it's incomplete and superficial. Indeed, incomplete and superficial. I'm not going to ask for a supplement, although I wanted to ask for a supplement and a specificity of such an answer, given the complete situation that is with us, but the importance of the participation of our representatives in international organisations really doesn't deserve this kind of response. I have a suggestion that we could accept for the College, possibly, to see, about this, about the inflow of funds and how funds were spent in the previous term this year, about this kind of response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1717	Thank you. Mr. Rakić. Ladies and gentlemen, at the 11th session. 5. I asked what the Council of BiH's Council of Ministers does to remedy the damages suffered in the Republika Srpska attack by the NATO Pact on SR Yugoslavia. Okay, well, some noises, so I try not to yell. So I asked a question at the 11th session. 5. what does the Council of Ministers of BiH do to remedy the damages suffered in the Republika Srpska attack by the NATO Pact on SR Yugoslavia. It was only given here that the question was sent 14. 5. The BiH Council of Ministers. I think it is one of the urgent issues, not only for the Republic of Serbia, but also for the Federation of BiH, because there have been huge damages and something has to be done urgently. We have no information as far as it came, but based on the information we have from the Republika Srpska government, there are virtually no fees for it now, neither are they in sight. And I think that at some meetings, according to the press information, the issue has been raised and that, within the framework of the countries surrounding Yugoslavia, it has been defined to compensate for certain damages. That's why I'm asking you to work on it, not just not to give an answer, but to get concrete results out there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1720	Dear Presidency, fellow Members of Parliament, My parliamentary question was to obtain information about the results of the last donor conference, the way and the conditions under which the funds will be provided with 25 donor conferences, for which the funds are provided, what obligations Bosnia and Herzegovina has undertaken and how they will be implemented, as well as how to monitor and implement obligations. I'm reading the question because I only got a partial answer, so I'm not happy with this answer. In fact, you see from the answer, we got a review of the donor funds and we got a focus on the reconstruction and implementation of the Peace Agreement. As for the conditions under which these funds will be used, it is merely stated that these funds will be used, depending on the degree of compliance of the conditions, i.e. the degree of implementation of the Peace Prozazum and other agreements with the international community and, on the other hand, it is said that conditions are laid down mainly those arising from the Peace Agreement or from other agreements with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and their execution will be followed by established international institutions and missions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'm the question just for this and I asked. I think that since we're ratifying the Agreement, here's the credit, since we're participating in a donor conference, we're obliged to monitor conditions, not just those that provide us with the funds. We should create conditions, provide both through the parliamentary procedure and through the work of the BiH Council of Ministers, we must create conditions for these funds to be used. And that's why I'm not happy with this answer. But let me specify my proposal, since it is an incomplete answer, to specify my proposal when we are discussing a point that has a ratification of the Agreement. Otherwise, if we leave it all to international organisations, whether it's the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund or anyone else, that they're just following whether we're meeting the conditions, then we'll always be coughing or, in fact, being forced to meet the conditions. We must organize, when I say, I think this Parliament, and not only of the Council of Ministers of BiH, but they participated in the work of the donor conference and I think that they should come from a proposal which conditions, i.e., which documents, which documents, which reforms should be implemented by Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to be able to use donor funds. Until we can access this conference and our obligations to this conference, I don't think we'll even be able to implement all the funds of the donor conference. I'll refrain from making a further proposal now, but I'll try to do what I think I should have, because that's why I asked the question, suggest when we discuss ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1721	Thank you. I didn't have any more reports. Thank you. And with this, we've exhausted this item of the agenda. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: Verification of the mandate of MPs in front of HDZ, with the consent and recommendation of the Interim Election Commission, a proposal has been submitted and a request has been accepted to assign the mandate to the next HDZ MP, instead of the late Mr Leotar, who, as is known, has been tragically injured. 26 Next on the list is Mr. Zovko and I call on Zovko to approach the act of giving a solemn statement. Please speak the words of the statement after me. Thank you and congratulations. [[reading solemn statement]] Give it up. So, Mr. Tomić is reporting for a discussion within this point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1722	Fellow MPs, the Presidency of the Croatian Democratic Community, in its last session, adopted a conclusion on the incompatibility of the functions of executive and legislative authorities and, in this context, within the framework of this point, "Verification of mandate", I announce that representatives from the HDZ order in this Parliament who act as executives Prlić and Tomić will by the end of this month make a decision on the definition of one of the functions they hold. And it is the conclusion of the HDZ presidency that we call on all parliamentary parties to regulate this way the relationship between the legislative and the executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1723	Thank you. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1724	Ladies and gentlemen, we want to welcome this initiative in front of the SDP because you remember that we, I think, if I remember a good date, are 15. 5. We demand, for moral and constitutional reasons, that these two functions be separated, in particular we expect and welcome that this trend continues to be followed by all the other parties in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1725	Thank you. We move to the fourth item of the agenda: The draft law on administrative fees The law has long been in the procedure, the BiH Council of Ministers delivered the Law, the law was also discussed by the competent commissions of the two homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The law was already ready at the previous session. We are here today and I call upon the representative of the committee responsible to give, on behalf of the Commission, if necessary, the Commission's position on this law. So, the chairman of the Commission on finance and budget issues, MP Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1726	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no need to read to you the Commission's minutes, I assume you've all received the report of the Finance and Budget Commission. I will briefly say 27 that the Finance and Budget Commission has considered the draft law on administrative fees and has decided that this law is going to be discussed in the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think amendments to the MPs should be made to the Representative Council, especially on the amendment tabled by MP Nikola Špirić. Since the amendment slows down the constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law, of course, the debate will also give rise to the conclusion whether or not this Law gets the necessary majority. The Commission also adopted a proposal from Mr Rakić, which is the Commission's view of changing the name of the law in the sense that it should be the Law on Administrative Taxes before the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so these are the views which the Commission unanimously... For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1727	I call on the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers to declare these amendments, which have been submitted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1728	When it comes to the Law on Administrative Taxes, I spoke at the last session of Parliament about the necessity of the adoption of this law and the need to definitely abolish all parallel forms of income in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina that still exist. As you know, in a transitional provision in this Act, it is also the adoption of a new account regulation, which would, in practice, start to charge fees under this Act and thus end up with a chapter of taxi charges on a variety of grounds, which, unfortunately, we also have examples in the last Official Messenger of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The constitutional basis for this exists and I have already defined myself in the adoption of the Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina where we predicted that this year we would collect 20 million marks from administrative taxis. Therefore, and then the Constitutional Commission adopted the Law and released it in the procedure, it was also in the budget last year, but this year, here, I will certainly say six months before I propose this Law and the Council of Ministers of BiH stands at the point of view that it is necessary to adopt this Law in order to achieve the incomes that Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions achieve by their operations and which they have, as I say, a legal basis for acquisition. When it comes to this proposal, the amendment relating to the very name of the Law itself is the essence of the fact that these administrative fees are actually charged in dealing with the common institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, it is common for the law to be called the Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it can also be called the Administrative Law, if adopted by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament, it is Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, when it comes to the name itself, I do not see any more significant difference, and here is the Council of Ministers of BiH did not have the opportunity to declare the amendment, because, behold, we only got it in front of the Parliament's session and the minutes from this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1729	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss this law, noting that I will put the amendments that were submitted to the vote later. Mr. Špirić. 28
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1730	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, in accordance with the provisions of the Dayton Agreement, the collection and regulation of the collection of administrative fees, as well as the use of funds from administrative fees, falls within the entity's jurisdiction. The issue of funding of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions is regulated by Article 8. The Dayton Agreement, which states that the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina provides the two-thirds of the revenue needed for the budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska's one-third of the revenue covered by the expenditure necessary for the exercise of the competence of Bosnia and Herzegovina's joint institutions and the international commitment of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We find the wrong assumption that the constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on Administrative Taxes is contained in Article 3(c) of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Article 3, point (c) states that Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions are competent to finance institutions and pay international commitments to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The same member, Article 3, paragraph 5(a) states that Bosnia and Herzegovina may also assume competences for other tasks if entities agree, or if they agree. We don't argue like that, but since we're in a situation like this, I think it's necessary to open better co-operation between entity governments and resolution ministries. So, I propose that the necessary consultations and arrangements be carried out between the entity governments to define the original revenues of Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to make the process of alignment and such legal projects less complicated and easier. So, until the communication is reached in relation to the Government of Republika Srpska - the government of the Federation, or the resolution ministries, we will not vote in favour of this proposed legislative project, or I will not vote, and it is the right of any MP to take a personal position in the democratic debate on this legislative project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1731	Thank you. Mr. Bičakčić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1732	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the discussion of MP Špirić, I would like to say that, on the same constitutional basis, the Parliamentary Assembly has decided on how to obtain income and that there is a constitutional basis, and as regards co-operation between entities, between the two entities' governments, it is very intense and has been going on for many years now, it has been recording the full scope of discussions in many sectors, from the issues of return of refugees and displaced persons to the full organisation of taxes and taxes that are in the jurisdiction of entities. This is about, therefore, the original jurisdiction of the state. I have reviewed these fees, these are taxes from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, taxes from external communications, fees from other competences belonging to the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton Constitution, and I think this Parliament should bring as soon as possible, thus helping entities to participate less in the state and I welcome that the state is starting to receive revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1733	Thank you. Mrs. Muminagić. 29
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1734	We had a debate on the Law on Administrative Taxes on the Finance and Budget Commission twice already and we faced these opinions on the constitutional basis. However, I felt that, if the Commission is in charge of constitutional issues saying that something is in line with the Constitution, then we should accept it, but, since fellow Špirić challenged it and presented his argument against the adoption of this Law, I would also like to say the argument that is for the adoption of the Law. Now that's what Mr. Bičakčić was talking about. In a constitutional solution from the authority of the institutions, we have the responsibility of BiH institutions to finance BiH institutions and international obligations. Article 8, paragraph 3, says "the Federation of BiH will provide two-thirds, and the RS one-third of the revenue needed for the budget" except, I stress this "if the revenues are not collected in the manner set out by the Parliamentary Assembly". The parliamentary assembly's mandate states that the Parliamentary Assembly has the power to decide on sources and the amount of funds for the work of BiH institutions and international obligations. I must now say, as they say in the jargon, so it is up to us, to the Parliamentary Assembly, whether something will decide. We have a constitutional foothold, so if, for procedures and actions before the authorities, there is a charge in front of the institutions of the BiH state, it is the most logical, easiest and most transparent that these revenues go to the BiH state, to its budget. Otherwise, there is a possibility that these funds are collected in a way that is not transparent, for which no one can track where these funds are going. And, right to tell you, the very collection technique in a different way is inconclusive to me. It's doable for the authorities who charge taxes to transfer it to the Budget immediately and then it's clean. If we want to prevent the practice of collecting funds in a way that is not foreseen by the Budget of BiH, then I think we need to pass this Law. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1735	Thank you. Mr. Špirić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1736	Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of getting into what Mrs. Muminagić mentioned, but I think there is a reason. There is reason for RS to press charges for illegal taxi picking outside BiH's joint institutions, as it has been regularly pacifying one-third of the financing of joint bodies and obligations of BiH to abroad. But to get into more constructive co-operation, there's got to be a dialogue on any thing that can cause this kind of controversy between governments and entities here. If the entity governments agree on other original revenues, why should the RS, if something expensive is to be done in the RS, do so if it is simpler through joint bodies, but consultations must be established on this. I guess the war stopped, no more topics that could represent taboo themes for one and the other entities. Since we, according to the Electoral Law, are representatives of the RS in the Representative Council, it says, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we will not vote for any legal project that we think the RS government will be against, but you must tell us that these two things are harmonised and there are no problems. Why are we afraid to open a debate at the RS Ministry of the Federation of BiH's relations, i.e. the government, and to say that BiH's original revenues are not only these, but also a number of other original revenues that are not cheap to collect entityally but better to collect them at the level of the central authorities. But we won't, we want to rape the process, and I'm against such a mechanism. I am for a democratic debate, to open up at all levels of 30 and on entity and here. It can be said: this is up to us, to pass the law, or not to pass it, but it will be a more stable law if resistance is not given to it by entities. And that's why I begged last time to get out, to have the entity governments talk about it. I don't have any information that they've spoken to, and I don't have any information that they've agreed to. I have information that they didn't. And that's why I ask you to understand this attitude, but I think the current way of picking up a cab is illegal that there is a crime and now we need to open up a debate about where these funds went. Whether the RS will be compensated for the equivalent part of the funds, because it regularly Alimentates its commitments. In that sense, I ask that dialogue be opened, that this law be adopted and that no one gives him resistance, that there is no need. The legal project only makes sense if there is no need for resistance to its realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1737	Thank you. Mr. Rečica, come in. Mrs. Muminagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1738	From the replica of Mr Špirić, I have concluded that there is a constitutional basis that we can do this, only now the question is whether the preparation was in the right way agreed. And secondly, if we want to make sure that the funds go through legal flows, that we don't run against each other constitutional procedures, or we don't ask for ways to damage each other, then I think we need to regulate something, and we're going to regulate it if we make regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1739	Thank you. Mr. Tomić and then the Rečica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1740	I'll try again to, for the sake of precision, explain some things. The BiH budget, when it was passed, was an obligation to comply with the entity's budgets for financing that one-third and two-thirds. This was done together with the International Monetary Fund, with entity finance ministries, resolution ministries for civil affairs and communication. On that occasion, it was established that the other revenues of the administrative fee would be in place, etc. The amount of 20 million KM, this Decision, i.e. by law, is practically the agreement, that 20 million and some million are derived from these other revenues, this is how it is operated. So the agreement and knowledge that the BiH budget is missing 20 and some million exist and entities know that. That is even more, because, as you know, there has been no alignment of that part of a third of two-thirds with the needs that we have planned in the budget. So the position is even higher and we and the promise of the International Monetary Fund that a rebalancing will take place during the year. But there's no talking about any lawsuits, because one third and two thirds paid by entities, even if they pay regularly, doesn't give 100%, because there's this 20th and something million missing. One-third and two-thirds for the part not covered by revenues provided for by administrative fees, grants and other forms of income. Therefore, because of the view, above all of the unifying work before the joint institutions, because of the public and transparency of income issues, and, above all, the fulfillment of these missing revenues planned in the budget, the BiH Council of Ministers unanimously accepted this Law on 31 administrative fees and proposed it to the BiH Parliament for adoption as such. And we don't think there's any need for this law to be brought into line with the entities because, through the adoption of the Budget Law and the implementation of the budget that has been agreed with the entities, this job has already been completed and that it's only the operationalisation of that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1741	Thank you. Mr. Rečica, he's giving up. Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1742	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the BiH Administrative Tax Act is the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH institutions. So these fees can't be collected in entities. This is not any law on the administrative fees of joint institutions. We don't have joint institutions, we just have BiH institutions that charge, in procedures that take place in front of them, certain fees. So these fees can't be collected in entities. Mr Špirić said that taxes, administrative fees, means those fees cannot be collected in entities. Mr Špirić said that taxes, administrative fees, are in the entity's exclusive jurisdiction. It doesn't say anything. The BiH Constitution doesn't say that. Entities cannot collect administrative fees for activities carried out by BiH institutions. The Dayton Agreement cannot, the Federation of BiH and RS have their administrative fees and they collect them in accordance with their positive regulations. These are the administrative fees of the BiH state that are collected in front of BiH institutions, no joint institutions, because our constitution says they are BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1743	Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1744	I am, gentlemen, very unpleasantly surprised to have here denied that we have a common BiH and that we have common institutions. Really, gentlemen, we don't have a common institution. Oh, so we don't. I tell you, and what is it that the BiH institution is not both Bosniak and Croatian and Serbian at the same time? Is there something? If there is, please tell me what it is. Therefore, here it is clearly specified in the jurisdiction of what is..... we do not dispute anything, the two governments sit down, let them agree, we will vote. So no one here 7/4 is against it, go in order and make a deal. Why are you running away from the deal? Who says you can't make a deal? Mr. Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH says they are extremely well and simply agreeing with the RS government. I think it's positive. Here you are, Mr. President, here's a conclusion. Let's give you a deadline for your consultation and a common position. When you bring a common position, we won't discuss it here, we'll raise our hands right now, and we'll be very happy to be so good, so fast and so easy to negotiate. Thank you very much. 32
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1745	Thank you. Mr. Bičakčić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1746	Dear Mr. Banjac, believe me, if it were government, we would have handled it a year ago. But here's the thing, we don't have a constitutional basis in entities for this, we absolutely don't have it, this is the constitutional basis of the BiH state, foreign affairs, foreign trade, external communications, point IV, I don't know exactly by heart, the Constitution, it writes fine. Therefore, the constitutional basis is in the state of BiH, on you here to pass these laws. I ask you to bring and facilitate the entities' participation as soon as possible. And maybe the BiH Council of Ministers will spend it all, I can't guarantee it, you'll decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1747	Thank you. So Mr. Banjac has just abstained from the replica and, as far as I can tell, we've exhausted the debate. I'll take the order as the amendments are filed. First, as regards the Commission, the Working Body of the House of Representatives, the Commission considered the proposal on administrative fees and took the view that the proposal could go to the assembly debate, by staying with MP Nikola Špirić and asking the House to declare it as well as other amendments. So it's an amendment in which Mr. Špirić requests that this law be withdrawn from the procedure. It proposes that the procedure on this law be terminated, suggesting that an entity law on administrative fees and procedures be adopted at the level of the BiH institutions. That's what Mr. Špirić suggested. So, we'll get to the bottom of this amendment to Mr. Špirić first. Please. Mr Špirić's proposal is to withdraw the law, to break the debate on the law, and that is one proposal that refers to the whole process of passing the law, as a proposal for MPs and each other MP, I will put the proposal to the vote. Who's to be, here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1748	On the proposed text of the Law, firstly, if there is an amendment, the amendment shall be made to the amendments. Therefore, the article and the amendment do not read whether it has the position of the BiH Council of Ministers, etc., everything else comes after the vote on the text proposal, the law proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1749	Thank you. As far as the amendments are concerned, please, this is quite an appropriate suggestion. To first discuss concrete amendments to specific members, and then to issues relating to the whole law. Amendments of two Members and one amendment from the Commission have arrived. 33 The First Amendment of the Messengers of Alma Čolo. Amendment I to Article 10. BiH's administrative tax law to first row, behind the words "scriptions", add the words "except those exempt from payment of fees". I would like to point out without delay that the Commission, which has been considering this, is of the opinion that the amendments of Mrs Čolo and Mrs Muminagić, which I will read later, are generally acceptable, have been accepted by the Commission, that amendments that improve the text of the Technical Nature Act are, in particular, the Commission's position. Please keep that in mind when voting. I'm putting on an amendment and Mrs. Čolo. Who's for the amendment, please, how did we read it? Thank you. So, if the BiH Council of Ministers feels the need to make a statement about any amendment, please respond, unless there is a need, it goes. So, Amendment I we have read, are added the words “exclusively exempt from paying taxes”. Who's in favor of this amendment? Has the BiH Council of Ministers declared this? I have no confirmation that the BiH Council of Ministers has accepted these amendments. Yes, I have the paper that the promoter accepted. If the promoter accepted, then it's over. Do you have, Tomić, that you accepted these amendments? Accepted. Is it written by the BiH Council of Ministers? Please, let's figure this out. The Council of Ministers accepts Amendment I.. I imati information. If the Proposer accepts an amendment, it becomes an integral part of the proposal and there is no need. Let's move on. Amendment II to Article 19 to delete the word “taxe” at the end of the second row, and add the words “money at the level of the charged fee”. We will wait for the Council of Ministers to declare this amendment as well. These amendments, Mrs. Čolo and Mrs. Muminagić and the Commission's amendment to the draft law, ask the BiH Council of Ministers to look at them and plead within ten minutes. I suggest a break of 10 minutes. [[continuing after break]] Thirty-two MPs are present in the room. Therefore, we can work. I urge the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers to declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1751	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the BiH Council of Ministers following the proposed amendments is as follows: - The BiH Council of Ministers accepts the amendment and MPs Alma Čolo, in article 10, behind the word "records", the text "except those exempt from paying the fee". - Amendment II, Article 19, deletes the word “taxe” at the end of the second row and adds the word “money at the level of the charged fee”. - Amendment III to heading 25 of the tariff in point 2, first of all, is accepted to delete the words “one” behind the words “members”, and to add “family, couple and children”. 34 - Amendments and representatives of Suada Muminagić to Article 7. The law, where the “point” is deleted at the end of Article 7 and the words are added: “when there is a reasonable reason to doubt that the value of the marked submission or correction does not correspond to the real value”. - Amendment II of Representative Suada Muminagić to Article 30 is accepted. The law on administrative fees, in other words, deletes the words “in the giro account of the Budget” and replaces the word “Budget”. The BiH Council of Ministers also had an amendment from the House of Peoples, which Mr. Ćeman proposed and, due to such a reduction of the procedure, we propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to accept Amendment I, in Article 25, instead of "25%", stands "50%" of the BiH Council of Ministers found that it was a technical mistake and that amendment is accepted. Amendment II of the Representatives of Ćeman and Amendment III shall not be accepted. Amendment II, which reads "to require, in addition to money, also fees in tax marks" and Amendment III, not to be accepted, which is required to abolish the obligation to publish this Act in "the official votes of the entities". We have established this as a fundamental principle, that every law should be published in the official ballots of the entity, and that its entry into force from the day of its publication in “Plasil BiH”. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1752	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1753	Also, the Commission's amendment to the name of the law, the BiH Council of Ministers proposes that the text be called, that the amendment should not be fully accepted, but be accepted as an initiative and that the text of the Law be called the Law on Administrative Taxes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1754	We have a statement on the amendments, in this way, amendments that have been accepted become an integral part of the bill that we will declare, including the name of the law that the Council of Ministers has adopted, to change and to call the Law on Administrative Taxes. I think we can approach the vote. I call upon the MPs to declare by raising their hands who is for the proposed Law on Administrative Taxes? Of the 31 MPs, 24 voted in favour and we have the required majority. However, we must hold a vote on entities. We're asking from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 21 from the Federation of BiH, there is a necessary majority. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? Three from the RS space, we do not have a third of the votes required from the RS space, therefore, the Law, given that it has received the necessary majority of access to the Harmonisation Mechanism in the College and, afterwards, re-enactment according to the intended way of voting. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's against the law? He's ten against it. Anybody got any abstentions? Thank you. No abstentions. 35 The College will carry out, in the capacity of the Coordination Commission, and provide the minutes for the next session on the procedure. Thank you. 34 MPs are present, regardless, most of the votes were in favour. We move to the 5th item of the agenda: Consideration and adoption of the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina As you know, at the previous session of the Proposal for Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was provisionally declared by the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, he received most of the votes of the MPs present, but did not get the necessary majority from Republika Srpska, most of the MPs from RS. In such circumstances, the Rules of Procedure, as well as the Constitution, provide that the College, in the capacity of the Commission, tries to agree on a possible text, on a possible solution, and that, if consensus is reached, the agreement reached. If no agreement is reached, the bill is re-voted on the Bill's proposal, and in that case, the Law was passed if the majority of MPs voted for it, where 2/3 of MPs from an entity cannot be against the Law. If there are 2/3 or more MPs from one of the entities against the law, the law has not been passed, regardless of the majority. The College of the House of Representatives carried out and held a session, and in the capacity of the Commission, in an effort to reach agreement, immediately to tell you, the agreement has not been reached and in the record we will read what this law refers to. In addition to the general agreement on the need to adopt the Law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the members of the Commission have not reached agreement on Article 4. The law of..., I apologize. I was warned by the Secretariat -- the proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship, which was provisionally declared by the High Representative, we decided at the previous session to extend it and put it on the agenda of this session. There was a proposal for that decision, or conclusion, on dual citizenship and was the intention of this prolonging to try to find a solution to the proposal. No agreement has been reached on that decision and we, de facto, have the same situation again, we have a proposal for a law on citizenship before us, to declare ourselves in a way that was temporarily declared by a high representative. Mr. Banjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1755	I don't have a need, I'm sorry, Mr. Genjac didn't say who didn't accept this decision-making. You know that MPs from the Serb people's order from Republika Srpska asked for a decision on the conditions for gaining citizenship of another state, therefore, of dual citizenship, which is in accordance with point 1, of Article 1, point 7. d) of Article 4, point 4. The Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, meaning the condition that we vote, we have no objections to the Law on Citizenship, we are willing to vote in favour of the Law on Citizenship, we ask that this decision that has been offered to you be adopted previously, that I do not read it. At the College, the Bosniak side did not accept the decision, and if it had no objection that it was not in accordance with the Constitution, I would like, on this occasion, to say that we do not dispute the Law on Citizenship, we will vote in favour of the Law, but we are looking for this possibility that is in line with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here, we have a compromise solution, we're going to vote in the decision package and for the law, and we're for, there's no 36 no problem, so it doesn't turn out that we won't vote afterwards, here, we're giving up the vote separately, I suggest we vote in the package, the decision and the law, and we'll see who is who, in fact, doesn't want to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1756	Thank you. We have two attitudes, one attitude is to vote on the Citizenship Act unconditionally, and we have one position to vote previously on a package of decisions plus the Law. Since we do not have the consent to vote in the package, Mr Banjac proposes to vote on both the Law and the Decision package.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1757	Gentlemen, since I care about the adoption of the Law, I just want to say, I see no reason not to show good will which does not mean anything, this decision means nothing more than a goodwill which, by an earlier agreement, has allowed the Croatian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina to connect with the Croatian state. And that's what the law says, so we're not looking for anything but good will, what the decision treats can only be the subject of debate with mutual agreement of the states. So we don't decide anything in advance, we simply give the possibility to negotiate in these areas. Now we're saying that we're going to talk about the Stability Pact, about mutual co-operation in these areas, and here, right now, a decision is being challenged that is currently talking about the co-operation of states in these areas. Show me, please, a little goodwill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1758	Thank you, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1759	I think that none of the MPs present have anything against this decision that you have proposed, but can we discuss adopting such a decision, at the same time as the Law on Citizenship, if Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia have not established diplomatic relations, establishing diplomatic relations is a prerequisite for making such a decision, which sets out what the rules for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement between the two states will be. So, one of the previous issues needs to be resolved, diplomatic relations established, and then to approach this decision, and to tie this decision to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina is really unimaginable, cannot go into the adoption of the law and one decision at the same time, decisions for which not all legal assumptions have been met.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1760	I have to react, I'm really and pleasantly surprised, Mr. Jadranko says, here, I expect that he will support this, I see that he will, and this is a step forward, I think it's okay, I'm glad that you realized that this is not prejudged by what's going to happen, but we're simply showing the good will of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina to establish diplomatic relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, nothing else, if that good will is there, let's see that it's not there, if there is, to see that there is.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1761	Completely, specifically, therefore, if we are now told here that, as an act of goodwill, it could be adopted in the package and both, then, as an act of goodwill of this Parliament, 37 could be adopted by all the laws of today's session and in the future session, in the package, and thus we would show, also, the degree of goodwill towards certain issues. However, I have come out to ask for an official opinion from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the proposed decision by Serbian MPs from Republika Srpska, and that, only after a statement by the BiH Council of Ministers on the issue, eventually, and even after a break, let us be clear about this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1762	Does the BiH Council of Ministers have a position to plead?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1763	We can deliver a decision if we have to.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1764	Thank you. Unless there's one, and that's a fact. Polemics. Five-minute delay to consult. Please take your seats. We're going back to work. I call on the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers, if he has a coherent position, to present it. Here you go, Mr. Mihailović.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1766	Madam Chairman, dama and gentlemen, the Council of Ministers of BiH has tried in a break to agree on your request for this decision, which is before you, and that it could be voted together with the law that is foreseen, the Law on Citizenship, we have failed to agree on the text of this decision, and therefore the Council of Ministers of BiH has no position, or has no agreeable position, there is no unique decision to propose to you the text of a decision that would be in front of the Council of Ministers. So it's up to you to try to bring it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1767	Thank you, Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1768	As you have heard, Members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers of BiH has failed to reach a position, but because of this, we will move on and we will offer a new compromise solution and it is indeed finally, this is once again a sign of goodwill, to come to a solution. We propose a change in Article 6 that this decision enters into force within 30 days of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the signatories states. So we're not prejudicing anything. If this can't do it, it'll be good for us to see that it can't. 38
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1769	Thank you, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1770	I'm sorry to go out again, but I forgot to say something. The principles contained in this Decision are the principles on which a possible bilateral agreement should be established concluded between the two sovereign 8/5 states. So what's contained in this decision is, in fact, some of the things that should be arranged by this bilateral agreement. We thus prejudge what this decision says to be the will of one side, and not the other side of the country that would be involved in the bilateral agreement. The two states that are being negotiated must establish these principles, not this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1771	Thank you. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1772	Mr. Chairman, Dama and gentlemen, as is known, on 16 December 1997, the High Representative, Mr. Karlos Vestendorp, is, in accordance with his authority to aneks 10. Peace Agreement, and on the basis of Article 11. The Bosnian document, declared on the provisional basis of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act. The OHR, also as a metric interpreter of the Dayton Agreement, found that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should adopt this law in the necessary form when it is stressed without any additional amendments and conditions, therefore, regardless of the need to trouble this area through a decision, as stated by a group of MPs, the law cannot be conditioned and cannot be conditioned by some amendments or some other acts and decisions that would be related to the decision-making principle. However, on the other hand, the Coalition for Full and Democratic Bosnia and Herzegovina is coming up with a proposal to adopt a conclusion here on the basis of which of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is responsible for this problem, asking that a platform be developed for establishing a bilateral agreement on the acquisition of dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of which one who is constitutionally responsible for this issue could regulate this issue and, of course, inform us in a timely manner where all existing initiatives on this plan should be used and the decision proposed by a group of MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1773	Thank you. We had a discussion about this last time and today we had a debate, I think the debate is exhausted, I'm going to establish some facts, I'm just going to highlight some facts. We have a law declared on a provisional basis by a high representative who, indeed, says he is valid until the Parliamentary Assembly adopts this law in the necessary form without any additional amendments and conditions. 39 We have, then, the fact that the law has come to parliamentary procedure, we have the fact that a group of MPs have made a proposal for a decision and now we have a proposal from Parliament Jahić a single conclusion. I must run some principles and Rules of Procedure, indeed, it is not possible to put two acts to the vote at the same time. I'll do as possible and as ordered by some procedure, chronologically, as the proposals arrived to put them to the vote. hronološki, the law first arrived, then the motion for a decision arrived, and the proposal came to a conclusion. In this order, we will put it on the statement, especially as today's agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please, I don't see any other solution, and that's why I'm calling on the MPs to plead out who's in favour of the Preld's Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who's in favour? 18 MPs out of 32 are present, so we have a majority, we have to establish by entities. Please, from the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 15, we have, therefore, more than a third from the Federation of BiH. Please, from Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? Three votes. We don't have a third needed from Republika Srpska's space. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's being held back, please? Five. Who's against it, please? Thank you. In this way, we are again in a situation where the proposal has received the majority, but not entityal, and it is necessary to agree on the College. We're moving on to a statement as I announced on the motion for a decision. Mr. Divković
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1774	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we've practically expanded the agenda this way. Because now we have to vote, make a decision. There's no such thing in the agenda. The moment we refused to vote together, I would say, in the package, the question was, what about the decision so that I could even plead on the decision. First, the agenda should be extended, i.e. put on the agenda and, secondly, I would like to hear the opinion of the Constitutional Commission whether what is proposed there is in accordance with the Constitution, etc. It means we have all these opinions. Therefore, my proposal is not to discuss the Decision now, and we can agree whether to prepare and put the decision at the next session of this Parliament, yes or no, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1775	Thank you. We have a proposal to submit the proposal to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission and to make it known by the next session. It would be useful to make this proposal known, so let's see, perhaps, if most of us are willing to, then, not plead. Who is it for this proposal that the proposal for a decision be delivered to the Constitutional Legal Commission that it be declared? Who's in, please? Mr Divković's proposal to submit this text to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission and to make it known. 40 I've held a little consultation here, so it makes sense, if that proposal is accepted, then there's no point in voting on the decision if we accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1776	My proposal is to remove it, or to change the agenda, if we cannot change the agenda, to remove it, in the package, MPs have the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and this opinion will be necessary. To take it off at the moment, because it wasn't in the agenda, and it wasn't in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1777	Thank you. Mr. Banjac.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1778	Mr. Chairman, I think you're taking suggestions lightly. The decision is within the framework of the regulation of citizenship powers, as well as dual citizenship. So, we sometimes discuss some law, some decision, we make a decision, but it's right then and there are certain conclusions, etc., and we continue this debate until the end. This is no different matter than the one we're discussing. Therefore, it is the same matter and there is no reason not to vote on this decision as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1779	Thank you. So every MP will have a chance, when voting on a decision to plead and speak his mind, please, not to be complicated. I put, as I have announced, a motion for a vote. Please, therefore, propose a decision by a group of Serb MPs from Republika Srpska on the conditions for gaining citizenship of another state, including this change Mr. Banjac made before the vote. Who's in favor of such a motion, please, to raise your hand? 10, thank you. So there is no required majority, no need to vote on entities, but we will carry out the vote until the end. Please, does anyone have any abstentions? 12 abstentions. Who's against it, please? Thank you. As we have announced, we should now vote on the proposal for a conclusion, proposed by Mr Jahić, to make a suggestion to the BiH presidency to approach the development of a platform for bilateral talks on dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. Mr. Tokić, intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1780	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, we would oppose the creation of a platform for bilateral talks at the moment. We are for good neighbourly relations, based on 41 equality, we are for the economically strong, democratic and Croatian-Yugoslavia, but at this point, we cannot lead the talks, even such a conclusion, in our opinion, to suggest to the BiH presidency, at the moment when the neighbouring Yugoslavia is headed by a regime which, de facto, is in complete isolation. I'm surprised the gentleman from the CD Coalition is looking for, at this point, one such platform. Therefore, we are against setting up a platform for bilateral talks until the regime changes in Belgrade. After all, it is also the attitude of a huge number of democratic forces within Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1781	Thank you. It was a proposal to build a platform. Mr. Jahić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1782	I didn't even talk about any concrete, so to speak, political context, what Mr. Tokić here refers to here, purely in the procedural sense to proceed with this procedure. I think it's an extremely favourable and useful thing, and as far as all these circumstances are concerned, Mr. Tokić is talking about, I agree. However, I think that he misused an initiative that, in principle, I think is indisputable and, in the end, stems from the constitutional authority of the Presidency itself, it will be sooner or later, and only the Presidency will be defined, of course, by taking care of the overall political context, on which time and based, so to say, such aspirations will enter the process. So I think I'm misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1783	Thank you. Mr. Banjac:
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1784	Gentlemen, I'm sorry. I must act, first of all as a human, as a member of the Serb people. I'm hurt by the fact that there's a people labeling here. Here's how. The gentleman mentioned by Mr Tokić was elected by the will of voters in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, i.e. Srbin. So, there's no mention of a man here, behind him a people, that's a sign that they're degreeed into democratic relations here, and that's how democracy is viewed here. Democracy is just as much my opinion, it's not democracy. The people of Serbia, when they decide to change the gentleman in question in power, it is his right to do so. I will not express my attitude toward the gentleman in question, therefore, neither should I praise him, nor should I mock him, it is a matter of the people and those who choose. I will express my view of those I choose in Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina. And I will never, too, criticize in another country the people because they choose this or that, that's the right of that people, and I would love it if they didn't raise such questions in this high house.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1785	Thank you. Mr. Tokić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1786	As far as the bilateral agreement platform is concerned, Jahić, it means that he is being built by one side without the other side, I really don't see any logic here, if in that gymnastics that you're building and installing the platform, you'll certainly opt for that vote. As far as Milosevic's regime and the Serbian people and all the peoples living in Yugoslavia are concerned, I am, indeed, a big difference and you have no right to identify it, as long as we are currently living in the ambience in which Milošević, by the international community and the United Nations, is charged with war crimes and is obliged to comply with the International Tribunal's invitation to The Hague. And, in that context, the legitimacy of such a government cannot be spoken in any way, I would not want now, not in the future, and in particular, I would say returning to the past, that at a time when hundreds of thousands of people in Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade, Zemun are signing, risking their lives, for the shift of Milošević, that we are building a platform here, or that, on the one hand, Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina find it appropriate to defend the position of that Milošević, who is completely isolated from the international community. In this context, I am, indeed, standing on that view that we should build an ambience and relations for good neighbourly relations, but not with the country whose head is Slobodan Milošević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1787	Thank you. Ma'am, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1788	Chairman, dear colleagues, I really, really don't know, we've been in the middle of having sex with Mr. sejfudin Tokić all day long. Please don't step away from the agenda. I'm asking you nicely not to enter another country in front of this country. It's neither the place nor the time to talk about something that's not on the agenda. If you think you're still holding us for two hours so you can have every replica, Mr. Tokić, I really think it's about time, since it's six hours, or 18 hours, that we actually end up with a common goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1789	Thank you. So, I would like to put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion that a suggestion is being made to the BiH presidency to approach a platform of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency for talks on bilateral relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. So, clearly, loudly. Who's to such a conclusion, to make this suggestion, please? Please, then, once again, if there was any ambiguity, that, by the House of Representatives, one of the suggestions of the Presidency, the Bureau would approach the creation of a platform for discussion on dual citizenship, for bilateral talks on dual citizenship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina and Croatia. For regulation, of course. 43
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1790	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting how we skate with the dignity of a home called the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament. We, if we cannot pass the law on our own citizenship, on Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizenship and what is proposed about decisions and conclusions, are already in the Constitution and stems from the procedures of relations that are normal in international relations with neighbours, with the world, etc. We go in on Sunday, two before the Stability Pact, we need to read those papers we got. The question arises whether it makes any sense to decide if we are not able to bring ourselves, without Petriča or tomorrow, your law on your citizenship. I can never vote for any other reason or discuss any procedure, recommend to any body any work, if we can't fight here together, to agree to pass the law on our citizenship. I guess the most basic, most normal thing to say is, I, as a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, am going to deal with whoever you want, on which basis you will, of course, comply with your own citizenship and authority and your country's citizenship. I don't see the basis for further discussion, we had the law on the agenda, someone suggested it well, correctly, Ivo, it seems to me, if we voted on this law, that the principle of the majority of the decision, in the protocol, in the procedure, is in our Rules of Procedure, when we adopt the agenda that there is no change in the agenda, when the law is voted on, when the result is declared official or the collapse of the law, is going to be agreed, or this law that we voted on, about our statehood in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is going to be agreed, and it exists because it is on the agenda, because it is adopted by Westendorp in accordance with the international factor that works in BiH. Therefore, there is no reason for me to recommend to any BiH Council of Ministers, whether the BiH presidency is something that is their normal activity and in yields that normally, in accordance with their own dignity and political position, will work. I think it's really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1791	Please, every MP, at the time of the vote, will express his position, not needing additionally, every initiative of every MP I am obliged to put on and we will put on when it comes to some issue, and each MP will speak with his own voice about an initiative. Let's not further determine the positions, I think it's a matter and, please, let's abstain, let's approach the vote and make a statement. So, please, who's in favour of a proposal like this, who's in favour? 16 for. At present they are present in the 33 MPs' room, so there is no required majority, but we will hold the vote until the end. Who's against it, please? Thank you. Who's being held back? Thank you. One of the MPs doesn't vote. Then please establish the quorum. Come on, count it. 44
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1792	Let's get some things straight here. First of all, this law is in force. With the authority of the Office of the High Representative, this law has been established by the Council of Ministers of BiH, therefore, it is not a law that was disputed in the BiH Council of Ministers and that is the reason for such a statement on the law. And this conclusion here is proposed, in fact, the same attitude that it has in that existing law. So we have a vote today, we are in one for the law, behind it we are immediately against conclusions that mean the implementation of what it says in that law itself. The Law makes it clear that six months after the Law came into force, no one asked the question why the procedure was not initiated. So obviously we have broken pots, when we're talking about all this and under-explained things that I think you should know.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1793	So please, I appeal again, I appeal again, 33 MPs are present in the O.R. In order not to constantly put ourselves in a situation where there is no vote, I ask the MPs, at least, that elemental duty to meet, to plead at the time of the vote. Please, who's in favor of a proposal for a conclusion? Here you go. Polemics. The only possibility is that those who are in shortfall are attributed to the abstention, because as soon as someone has not voted neither against nor against, he is abstentioned. Okay, thank you. Please refrain from voting means abstention, so if there are fewer votes, those votes are abstentions, we will attribute to abstention. What does "sustained" mean? A man can manifest it by raising his hand that he's restrained or, if he doesn't vote, we'll attribute that he's restrained, I don't see any other solution. Here you go, Rasim.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1795	Mr. Prlić reminded us here of a provision from the Law that is in force by the High Representative. There's a six-month commitment in it. However, this, gentlemen, is the Balkans, that is, Southeastern Europe and the pact is not being made here because the situation here is being arranged. In those six months, which under the law that entered into force were due to take place within the six months, an area between countries that would rule on dual citizenship agreements was in effect in one period of the six months. Therefore, gentlemen, let us not overly appeal to such provisions. In this case it is quite certain that the political situation in the neighbouring country concerning, among other things, this Law, decisions, conclusions, etc. limit the possibility of this Parliament to make some decisions. Therefore, the proposals that were in the function of softening the political atmosphere in order to vote this Law, after the law was not passed today at this session, should not have put it to a vote at all, and that is the essence of the story and I think it was necessary to withdraw the subsequent things and decisions and conclusions. Second, what I mean. For each item of the agenda, the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission will issue a new invoice of interpretation of a position, from the minutes on the number of those present, through a decision on the Constitutional Court so far, let's say, a new interpretation of whether a man who does not vote is a quorum of the session and whether he has the right not to vote at all. I would ask that, conditionally speaking, one mild suggestion, to give in to 45 pressures on interpretations by the Commission on constitutional and legal issues, since I am not sure that we can answer all these questions, and that, when these procedural issues are on the agenda, the activity that we have today definitely in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives is intensified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1796	Thank you. So 33 present MPs. We approach a statement on the proposal for a conclusion, as we have announced, consequently implementing what we have said we will do. Who's to suggest a conclusion, please raise your hand. Please, 15 for. Who's against it? Ten against. Who's being held back? Eight abstentions. Now math's fine. We move to the 6th item of the agenda: The proposal for a law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina The proposed law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina at the previous session received the majority, but not the entity structure of the vote and the College carried out an attempt to comply and I am reading to you a part of the minutes from that session of the College relating to this Law. In addition to the general agreement on the need to adopt the Law on the coat of arms of BiH, the members of the Commission have not reached agreement on Article 4. The BiH coat of arms law. For the chairman, Halid Genjac, the suggestion of coat of arms is acceptable, vice-president Mirko Banjac seeks a compromise solution because it is in agreement with the shape of the coat of arms, not with the contents of the coat of arms, and Ana Havel, acting as second vice chairman, was restrained. So, these are the facts, we held at the last session of the debate on this, and we are about to declare the procedure that the Rules of Procedure provides for in these situations. The proposal will be adopted in case most MPs vote in favour of the proposal and not be two-thirds of the vote against an entity. Who's up for the bill?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1797	Halid, I'm sorry. There's a need for a little intervention, so just for the record. All three proposals for coat of arms and flags were offered by the Office of the High Representative. At that time, I ask you, that the minutes of the session and the stenogram be realized if any, it is said that it would be good and best to find the most neutral solution, to satisfy the interests of all three peoples, or to have no, let me say, satisfying one, and challenging the wishes of the other two nations or vice versa, and it is true that the Office of the High Representative has declared the most neutral solution to what we have proposed at the last session, check the stenogram from the sitting then. 46 Why is it that, despite such an attitude, the offer of this coat of arms and the flag is not known to me. I'm still standing at that point, Bosnia and Herzegovina must have symbols and it has them and now it's on temporary use, it would be most useful for us to agree, to find a compromise solution. It wasn't possible until now, now you decide what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1798	Thank you. I am putting the proposal for a law on the coat of arms of Bosnia and Herzegovina before the MPs for a plea. I ask the MPs to state who's in favor of the bill? Eighteen's in. So there's a lot of them. But we have to vote on the entities. From the Federation of BiH's space, the vote here is now important in the Rules of Procedure. So we're going to vote on entities for and vote on entities against. So 18 votes is in. Let's see by entities, who's in. From the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? 15 from the Federation of BiH. From Republika Srpska's space, who's in favour? Three votes in. Thank you. We're going to vote against, entirely from both entities. Who's against both entities? Ten is a total against it. From the Federation of BiH, who's against it? There is no one from the Federation of BiH against. Therefore, at the Federation of BiH, we also have the condition of the majority. From Republika Srpska's space, who's against it? With RS space, 10 MPs are against it. Two-thirds of the 14 MPs, from the RS space, are slightly less than 10, thus more than two-thirds of the RS space and the proposal is not accepted. We'll hold the vote until the end. Who's being held back? Four abstentions. Since more than two-thirds of the MPs were against one entity, specifically from Republika Srpska, the bill was not adopted. We move to the following, item 7 of the agenda: Proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents of Bosnia and Herzegovina This is a law relating to a unique passport, a proposal from Mr. Tokić and Divković. It is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which received most of the votes at the last session, but not according to entities it takes a third and it is a law proposed by MPs Tokić and MPs Divković. 47 It is a suggestion that there is a version of a unique passport with no entity marking on the cover of passports, just a brief reminder. The Commission was also obliged, i.e. the College, to carry out consultations and an attempt to agree, and I read to you a part of the minutes relating to this: the Commission did not agree on the Amendments and Supplements Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not because of the content of the Law, but because of the fact that the Council of Ministers of BiH prepared the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH, which will regulate the issue of harmonisation, as well as a number of other issues that will be fully and fully resolved by the Commission on what the representative of the BiH Council of Ministers was present at the meeting of the Colleges. It's a condition, no consent has been reached. Mr. Divković.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1799	Mr. Chairman, I have no intention of reopening the debate on this law, the law is known, I am pleased to recall what this is really about, it is a proposal that passports can go without the entity marking only for those who want it. And I always stress that, because that's how the law is conceived. You have also read the text of the law here, which says that it is not a controversial text of the law, but the Council of Ministers of BiH prepares or has prepared a new law that should take into account all this together. I must express my regret that the BiH Council of Ministers had no position regarding the law, ours, which was in the procedure. We were looking for an attitude, our law on which we are now re-prosecuting ourselves was in the procedure, I think for one three months and we didn't have the position of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and now we have it, apparently, even a proposal for a new law, it seems to us, we wish we weren't right, but that here is the problem with the promoter. It's not in the text of the law, it's in who suggested it. If anything should be done then it would be correct, if it is not already a controversial text, that the text as integrated as it was proposed in our law enters into this new law that has prepared or prepared the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1800	Thank you. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1801	Mr Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at the 3rd session of the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, of the 9 members of the Commission, there were 5 members present and, among other things, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on travel documents. The Commission adopted the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Travel documents by having Mr Deretić opposed.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1802	Thank you. Mr. Tokić. 48
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1803	I would first comment on the process of alignment. The subject of your consent was supposed to be a proposed law, not what the BiH Council of Ministers once plans to do, which did not appear at all in the procedure. When it appears in the procedure, although you have a high degree of trust in this Council of Ministers, I, after all these experiences, have no position of the minority about anything and if you have two three different attitudes, we can plead on it, we have the text of the law. The Madrid conference has adopted an obligation to provide citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina with a passport without the entity's name, who want it. The BiH Council of Ministers has not responded for months to this, so it has not proposed amendments to the Law in accordance with the conclusions of the Madrid Conference, then we have proposed it, so the BiH Council of Ministers, according to our proposal for months, has had nothing to do with the law today, so at least it is unserious that you insist that the law be withdrawn from the procedure. It's clear to us that here are the ones who pointed out that it's six hours, and here I think of a lady who had just been nervously replicated, and we understand that some of them came from the RS to vote against all these legal acts, but we want this procedure to be over. Don't tell us this wrapped up, it looks like something the BiH Council of Ministers is planning. Last session of the BiH Council of Ministers did not say anything about this law, he did not say anything. Now it didn't say anything, but you've heard it this way so they can do some law. I therefore ask that, as a promoter, the Assembly, the House of Representatives declare this Law, it is, therefore, the right of people to have this passport, the basic elemental human right, and I will gladly look at all those who vote against and, of course, with greater satisfaction those who vote for. Because I think there is a distinction of what we all declare to be within these Euro-Atlantic integrations and those principles that rule in developed democratic countries.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1804	Please, let me just get this straight. The Commission did not reach agreement on the law, therefore, and it was just trying to reach agreement on the law. This is an explanation of one of the members or members who consider that the reason is in preparation, etc. That doesn't mean there won't be a statement about the law now, and that's an obligation, there's no discussion about it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1805	Gentlemen Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I would just like to point out a few objections to the work of the Commission. Today is one agenda, and in the invitation that was sent and which I received on Friday, there is a whole other agenda. A little late, at 10 o'clock, when I arrived, a session had already been postponed because members of the Commission were supposed to go to other commissions. Please service, it's not hard, there's not much of us, there's a schedule, who's in which commission, that the work programme and the work schedule, the commissions are being made valid, that people can attend. That the agenda does not change and that the lady who arrived with the delay be present or absent in this first text, here in the report, because later, for technical reasons, I was late, and I will explain it in parliamentary matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1806	Thank you, Mr. Deretić, so Mr. Kadić. 49
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1807	Dear colleagues chairing, fellow MPs, in fact, this is only a replica of the presentation of the last gentleman, Tokić. I think it is a very incorrect way for Mr Tokić to qualify MPs from the RS, here, above all, I think of his observation that we have come to literally, here, I have written, “we all refuse”. I mean, really, if this was too mild a qualification that I said for the simple reason that each of us votes on our conscience, it's, on the one hand, Mr. Tokić, you've also been against certain proposals, so in the same way I, as an MP, could say for you, or for your club. No, but it does not occur to me, we wish, at least so we all swear, that we are creating a democratic society in BiH and, in this context, I am asking you personally and, in the future, when you elaborate, there have been many today, and established and unfounded, from my point of view, that with more respect, indeed, you are addressing the MPs, whether they come from the RS or are from the FBiH. I would just point out, especially regarding this Law which is here before us, the truth, I am also a member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and, also, the Commission on Human Rights, today, also on one and the other Commission, on the Commission on Human Rights, I, as Honored counterpart Malkić presented here, expressed the contrary position of this amendment and the addition of the Law on Road Corrections and I explained it to the Dayton Agreement, the Constitution of BiH, and I think it is quite correct. Therefore, I only ask that we really treat each other with respect, we must have different and it is perfectly normal to have different opinions, but, indeed, I don't think that this is the kind of address, not just for the MPs of the RS, but also for the other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1808	Replica, Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1809	I did not speak of MPs from the RS, and I never liked to identify two people, let alone one group of MPs. I was talking about some MPs, and those MPs obviously recognized themselves, those who didn't...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1810	Mr. Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1811	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, at last session, when we discussed this law, I said what I would say very briefly now. The acquisition of passports, i.e. passports, is one of the human rights, completely individual and is very undemocratic when the parliament of a country restricts the individual human right to the passport of the country to which it belongs. Secondly, we are representatives here, or representatives of the House of Representatives, chosen by unidentified political groups, which we cannot classify, or we represent citizens, or citizens as individuals. A citizen as an individual has the right to never request a passport in BiH. Why do we give a man the right to never request a BiH passport, not violently, so by organ decisions, we prevent him from having the right to have a BiH passport. I am proud to point out that this is one of those initiatives that represents light in the very dark post-dayton BiH, and I am convinced that the day will come when some new parliament will vote one of these laws. I, with 50 pride, point out that even then and today I have been and will be one of these laws, and I hope that the time ahead will give us more and more opportunities for these and similar laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1812	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. We approach the statement on the Amendment Law proposal and the amendments to the Law on travel documents in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I call upon the messengers to declare by raising their hands who is in favor of the bill? Eighteen's in. Most of the 33 present MPs voted yes. We need to see another condition, if there are more than two-thirds of any of the entities that are against it. Let's get right to it. I pray from the Federation of BiH, who is against, no, please. Who, in all, is Parliament, who is it, against the law? Ten against, 18 for, who's restrained? A total of 10 votes against, please, who is from the Federation of BiH against? From Republika Srpska's space, who's against it? So, 10 votes from Republika Srpska's space, again more than two-thirds and, regardless of what the proposal has received, the proposal has not been adopted because of this condition. We move to the 8th item of the agenda: The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on their status and conditions of use At the previous session, again the majority for this decision, did not need a third of the votes from the entities, agreed upon, sought to agree on the College and read the minutes. The Commission has not agreed that the name of the proposal for a decision indicates that it is the joint institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and proposes that the BiH Council of Ministers be made known, with the name indicating that it is common institutions. Serbian people's MPs from Republika Srpska will not insist that the decision be split into two decisions. We of the Council of Ministers of BiH did not get the consensus that the decision applies to the common, to change, that instead of the institutions to stand - the joint institutions, therefore, we have a situation again that no consensus has been reached on the College, we have a situation that has previously been voted that we also approach the re-enactment.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1813	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to present an amendment, a proposal from the Republika Srpska MPs' clubs for this decision, at point 9, in the second row, to add the word “both” behind the word “organs”, means that point 9. is now said: The external security of the building referred to in point 2 of this decision and the space around the building will be carried out by the competent authorities of both entities in accordance with the agreement reached. Reason: Since the existing text can interpret that the external security of the building referred to in point 2 of the decision is carried out by the competent authorities of only one entity, it is necessary to add this word to make it clear that this security is being carried out by the competent authorities of 51 of both entities because it is a common institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Serbian MPs' clubs support the proposed decision along with this amendment, please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1814	Thank you. Let me just point out that the College has already agreed on about three changes in technical nature, including this one. So, one change is in point 4, behind the word “the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the word “the laws of Bosnia and Herzegovina”, the second change, in point 9, the words “organs” add the words “both”, and the third change, in point 10, the words “year” add the words “on which the complex of land is graphically marked”. These changes are consistent with the College, they are technical, they improve, they specify, etc. Here you go, Mr. Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1815	Mr. Chairman, since the BiH Council of Ministers discussed these amendments and we are glad that in this section it has coincided, that you have succeeded in agreeing to the College that part, we have only had one more proposal. Since the amendments to the next decision have been said to be in point 3, paragraph 1, instead of that line, that is to agree with the text of this decision, where it is said to be transferred to the common institutions, to Bosnia and Herzegovina, or to the joint institutions. The BiH Council of Ministers is of the opinion, in order to agree, that a better text from the decision on the building for the Central Bank is, in this decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for accommodation, to place a cartoon instead of "or", and thus, practically, formally, in the same text of both decisions that should be made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1816	Here it is agreed to add the words “or” instead of the cartoons. So it's the other way around. Therefore, it remains in the original version of the complex decision proposal. So, anything to go on a cartoon. Mr. Malkić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1817	I will only have one technical remark, probably fellow MPs from Serbian parties, here I was referring to the clubs of Serbian parties, not clubs, MPs from Republika Srpska, since I also did not invest in this amendment. I was sitting.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1818	Thank you. Mr. Rasim Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1819	Ladies and gentlemen, At the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the disputed one, we will find that since the MP raised the issue by majority vote, the Law on the establishment of a common police force to combat inter-entity smuggling, crime, drug trafficking may not be precise, therefore, to the disputed majority that we will determine. We refused to form a special police, inter-entity force, although there is no doubt a need to address certain common issues. Today, and for this reason, I am quite surprised, by the unanimity of the BiH College and the Council of Ministers on this matter, for 52 security of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, the security authority is transferred to separate entity, security, or security police or other forces. I think it's quite legal and, let's say, it's uncoordinated, and I'd very much like this harmonisation in the College to be explained in a very rational way. Which led the College to ensure that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as a doubtless responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina, are separated in some joint co-ordination form of entity security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1820	Thank you. In a proposal for a decision received by the BiH Council of Ministers, this is a pure language formulation, it was “entity” that could have been understood as a single entity, or, if read as a plural, both entities. And the College only agreed to add and explain, both entities, the word “both” to be added because it would be clear that both entities are. This was agreed on by the College, to explain this formulation, to think of "intestinality", not as a single "intestinality". If the BiH Council of Ministers has also agreed on a decision in the content that has come and is thought of as a mass entity.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1821	I only have one question for the promoter of this decision, under the "external insurance" of the building to tell me what is meant, whether police insurance is meant because, if the authorities of both entities are going to do so, that means the police from both entities here to secure this building. As far as we know, the police can't move from one entity to another, now according to existing positive regulations. Just to explain to me what is meant by this "external insurance"?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1822	Thank you. Mr. Tomić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1823	I would, before we begin, read article 6 of Article 9 which says that the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina will ensure the preservation, maintenance and protection of the building and land complex referred to in point 2 of this decision, by a special decision. Therefore, for the security of the building's entry facility, the control of the entry of the pass, the rest of it will be regulated by the service referred to in Article 8 which will deal in addition to the storage, maintenance and protection and all other fire maintenance operations, etc., etc. In Article 9, this complex building, the island to the sea, and its, let's say, has its own environment. The Office of the High Representative has launched activities, along with both interior ministries, talks, agreements on the matter. This led us to install this article inside because the building will certainly have its own internal security, so it will have its own service to do so. What it will be and what it will grow into, and what it will be called, etc., about it, but then the entity interior ministries will not be in charge of maintaining order, peace, etc., but will be the service provided for in Article 6 of this Decision, i.e. Article 7 of this Decision. This agreement, when it is reached between the entities, with the intervention of the Office of the High Representative and the IPTF, will depend on what form of insurance it will be at the moment and we will not decide. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1824	Thank you. Mr. Rasim Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1825	Ladies and gentlemen, I can be pleased with this response by the BiH Council of Ministers, it is perfectly logical, of course, that officials and workers who will provide facilities from both entities will be recruited, it is logical that there should be some decision to form that service, I think this would be a convenient opportunity for Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions to be regulated in one common way, what is the problem in this case is that we adopt a decision with a wide diapazon of precise things, and that we will only subsequently regulate this issue, I would like this later regulated issue to be brought into line with this decision, and to adopt it as such at the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1826	Thank you. I don't have any registered debaters, so let's put these three amendments to the statement, let's say, these amendments that have been agreed on at the College and which are of a technical nature, in order to improve, and I think we can put all three points on the statement. The BiH Council of Ministers accepted and they become an integral part of the proposal. Thank you. With this change accepted by the BiH Council of Ministers, I am putting the motion for a decision to vote. The proposal for a decision on the establishment of a complex of buildings and land for the accommodation of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and their status, conditions and method of use, I place it on the plea. Who's to propose a decision, raise your hand? Thank you. So, of the 32 present, 32 voted in favour, and the motion for a decision was adopted. Thank you. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: Proposal for a decision to determine the status of the building and land in the street. M. Tito 25 and the terms and conditions of their use The usaglašavanje was related to the previous point, the same thing, has this technical repair Mr. Tomić was talking about, to remain a cartoon, remains as originally proposed and I think we can put the motion to a vote. Please, who's in favour of this proposal. 31 is for, is anyone against or abstention? One was abstentioned, 31 for, therefore, the proposal for a decision to determine the status of the building and land was confirmed with the required majority of votes. 54 We move to the 10th point of the agenda: Giving approval for ratification: - A development loan agreement for a basic health care project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, Is there a need for a competent commission to declare? You've received the record of the commission. You have a record, if it doesn't exist, we can access the plea. Here you go, Mrs. Muminagić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1827	I've been talking about the parliamentary issue of this issue, and I want to make some proposals now. Credits on which we now give consent are about $150m, granted under the most favourable conditions under which the World Bank gives, 35 years with a grace period of 10 years, a very favourable interest rate, and I don't think it should say what these loans mean for the reconstruction of Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the support of its development. Of course, we of the SDP support the ratification of these agreements, but I would like to point out our obligations and responsibilities, as Parliament, for creating the conditions set first at a donor conference, and these agreements are specifically indicated, which depend on the use of the loan. Bosnia and Herzegovina accepts these loans and regardless of whether they are realised and who is implementing them, this Parliament should regularly monitor how conditions for their use are met. There are different loans, and I don't want to speak specifically, but especially since some of these loans, like this one about adjusting privatisation with a very short deadline, by June next year, are about meeting the conditions in privatisation. I think we need to be aware of our obligations by accepting these agreements. I don't dispute taking agreements, but I want us to set ourselves up certain tasks related to these agreements. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that certain material obligations are accepted in almost each of these loans, if you have taken a good look, you have seen that IDA is involved in each category of 90, 75, 50%, etc., so that part of the missing assets up to 100% should be provided, they will be provided by whoever realises the credit. However, we, like the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who accept this agreement, also have a certain responsibility if the funds are not provided. I've been saying this from practice and the past. The second emergency reconstruction project that we had in Bosnia and Herzegovina also had these conditions, 90% for construction works provided by IDA, and 10% should provide entities, it was budgets for one part of the projects, and one year after the construction works were completed, these 10% were not provided, neither today provided nor in the budgets of the Republika Srpska nor the Federation of BiH. I'm starting this because the current conditions we accept these agreements are far more difficult, the higher the amount of funds, I'm not saying that this will all be provided from the budget, I know that it will be provided in other ways, but we, as the Parliament that gave consent to the ratification of these agreements, must be in the process of whether these conditions are being met. Let me just tell you that the units that implemented the 55 projects remained in debt to the contractors and a year after the completion of the facilities for that part of the commitment that the Federation of BiH or Republika Srpska was supposed to carry out, only 10% of the obligation was made. In order not to get back into this situation, we propose that Parliament draws the following conclusions for the ratification of these agreements: First, that the Council of Ministers propose a programme of activities to carry out the obligations undertaken at the donor conference and take this House from that programme into its commitment programme relating to legislative and other competences under our jurisdiction. So we follow the Council of Ministers what he's doing, but we carry out our duties. Secondly, that the Council of Ministers monitors and regularly informs Parliament, and at least once a half-year, about the realisation of these loans, these six as well as others used under the decisions of the donor conference, so that we can respond in due time to non-compliance with the conditions. žreće, we propose, when I say we propose, I mean MPs from the SDP, to deliver the Council of Ministers information to the House of Representatives on the overall responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These loans won't be coming back for long now, but we still have to see what we're leaving for our heirs in the amannet, next to the facilities, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1828	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion of principled nature? To hold a debate, perhaps, on all agreements, if there is a principled objection of this kind to one of the agreements, if there is no agreement, I suggest that we make a statement on the proposal of these conclusions that Mrs Muminagić made, and then make a statement on the agreements. I suggest, since Mrs Muminagić has just read the draft conclusions, I don't think there's any need. I suggest we make a statement on the proposal of these three conclusions. Who's in? 25's in. Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? Three abstentions. He was someone who didn't vote, but the proposal and the conclusions were adopted by most votes. I find that the conclusions have been adopted. We approach a statement on the Development Credit Agreement for the basic health care project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the National Development Association. This Agreement has been reviewed by the Commission of the House of Representatives and the working bodies. There is a proposal for us to declare in the package that we agree on agreements. It is about giving consent to ratification of six agreements. Please, who's in favor of giving consent to ratifying these six agreements, who's in favour? 29 is for, is anyone against or abstention? 29 is currently present in the O.R., changing our quorum very dynamically. 56 11th item of the agenda: The adoption of conclusions on the working committees of the House of Representatives, on the deadlines and presence of the representatives of the proposings In one text, you have received a proposal of this conclusion, just to point out that the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers are taking part in the work of the House's meeting, but we can call on the members of the Presidency, which is an amendment which, as we have seen, as we have seen, but the committees have examined this proposal for this conclusion and I call on the representatives of the committee to comment. Given that reports with committees have been adopted on the committees almost unanimously, that it has been agreed, you have the text of these reports, the minutes with the commissions, above all, I call on anyone to comment on any minutes with any of the commissions? Please, by accepting the minutes from these committees, we also accept amendments, i.e. amendments to the proposal for these conclusions. I note, by accepting the minutes, we accept the amendments that the commissions have submitted in these records. With such a finding and such proposals, I put forward a proposal for a vote. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? Abstained? Please, we've got two more short points to go to the end of the agenda. One point is that Mr. Prlić will give us the brief information we asked for, then there are parliamentary questions. I, at this point, will step down from the chairman's office to my colleague Banjac, who has taken over the House of Representatives from tomorrow. I thank all of you for your cooperation, thank you to the members of the College for your cooperation, this cooperation will be bigger and bigger, and better, and before Mr. Prlić takes his word, I invite Mr. Banjac to take his place wishing him full success. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1829	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am taking this opportunity to thank my fellow Genjac for his successful leadership and to reveal a little secret, we have agreed that when he finishes his mandate, it goes smoothly at the end and when I receive that everything is adopted, here, you see that it has been so. I'm just kidding. Thank you very much, I hope that time will show how we will work, and, after all, one man does not mean much, together we will do, I hope, enough that you too will be satisfied. 57 I call on Minister Prlić to file a report.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1830	Thank you, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I will try as soon as possible, indeed, the most important information in connection with the organisation of the Stability Pact in Sarajevo. You all know that the last two weeks is probably the most powerful topic in our, but also the international, summit organisation in Sarajevo. I would like to say that yesterday we announced a political decision to hold a summit in Sarajevo, but at this point I would like to say that the calls have not yet been distributed. On our part, yesterday morning, the chairman of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency signed a concerted text of calls for this summit, however, still lagging behind on the call and the chairman of the European Union, President of Finland Mr Ahtisari, bearing in mind that certain issues are still going on that are often listed as technical. Yesterday, a meeting of all the ambassadors of the European Union was held and the consultations continue, just before this coming up, I received information from representatives in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that perhaps even the signing at the invitation could be expected tomorrow, during the weekend, but in any case the mood is such that we could get an official confirmation at the General Affairs Committee meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers. This situation does not make our task any easier because it is very difficult to make all preparations in a situation where calls have not yet been sent. The invitation, in itself, is not complex from, basically, calling for a meeting, but, as a booth goes a whole series of technical details that need to be known when so many delegations arrive. I want to inform you that in the last two weeks we have, in fact, taken all the necessary preparations to hold this meeting, which are absolutely all representatives of the international community who have now come to Sarajevo convinced us that we can organise this summit. This summit is not organised by any entity, no individual people, this summit is organised by all the peoples and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Within the framework of the Organisation Committee where all BiH presidency members are, co-chaired by the BiH Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers at the top of eight subcommittees that are formed and are also an entity that ensures this approach. Of course, more people from the Federation of BiH and Canton, i.e. Sarajevo County, are in operational affairs, given that the summit is being held here. We have just today reached an agreement to engage all accommodation facilities and in Jahorina, which in itself will have to advance the already existing, quite envious cooperation between the authorities of both entities. Eight separate separates of a special elaborate, which has already been developed, provide for all measures, primarily in the first one relating to the area of security. The fourth is predicted to be organised in Sarajevo, along with representatives of the international community. We with our own strength are able to ensure the full security of all participants of the summit, with SFOR should provide air support in view of the fact that we are not qualified for this part at this time. I have already mentioned that cooperation at the appropriate level has been established between the two entities. When it comes to representatives of information funds, they are expected to arrive at about two thousand, different categories, journalists, cameramen, technical staff, photographers, most of them will be located in a November home in Nedharic and other accommodation facilities in Sarajevo. 58 One of the most complex tasks is in the area of transport coordinating the arrival of large colour delegations, this will be achieved through the Presidency of the European Union and that part of the task in which we do not have direct engagement. So we take responsibility from coming to the airport, that is, other places they will come to Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would like to say one more thing, to be quite clear, is that the summit is organised by the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the help of the institutions of the European Union, so this is the most important task. All activities are defined when it comes to traffic in the city, from the airport, including very complex issues of the Protocol, given that we expect 28 participants to arrive in the Stability Pact, so 9 countries in the region, 15 Member States of the European Union and three other non-EU countries, but are members of the world's seven most developed countries, so the United States, Canada and Japan, and the Russian Federation, and then the countries that assist this process, the observer countries, or special guests of the Presidency of the European Union. Together with international organisations, we are ready to accept 65 delegations and on the list we have 65 liaison officers appointed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have formed a special unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which, in fact, has the task of communicating with all of these 65 potential delegations in Sarajevo, with all subcommittees, committees, in order to make it all work properly. The event takes place for two days, on 29th afternoon, a meeting of the heads of state or government of the countries of the region, which would end with a joint dinner, would be the first opportunity for countries in the region to actively show their ability to be an entity in international politics. Usually this part of the world was an object in international politics, and we know it by Berlin, Version and other agreements, for the first time the Stability Pact offers a completely different relationship to this region. The second day would be held, in fact, a summit that would start at 12 o'clock and last until 15 o'clock, most statesmen would come in in the morning and leave Sarajevo in the afternoon, after a joint photo shoot, or, according to certain proposals, we want to remain a secret mark of this summit in Sarajevo, considering the possibility of opening up a special memorial park near Zetra Stadium with 65 seedlings as much as there are participants of this event. We have decided that within a period of ten days before the summit and five days behind the summit, we will not require visas for those countries under which we have a visa system, just to facilitate traffic towards Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sarajevo. As far as healthcare is concerned, all measures have been taken and, other than a Sanitary helicopter to provide SFOR, all other measures have been adopted. An appropriate co-operation with SFOR and the IPTF has been achieved, but today or tomorrow the work of the Zetra Chamber of Command begins. In that hall is held and the event itself, the main hall will be divided into three parts, in the first part, in the reception, where the statesmen would come, in the central part would be held itself together, the working table would be, if someone were interested in the form of a hexagon, with 100 seats at the desk itself and 220 seats in the hall itself. We expect, and we are ready for, somewhere between 4000 and 5.5 thousand participants on different grounds, delegations, technical staff, journalists, etc. We have an objective problem, still because of the inconclusive decision to hold a summit, although with a high degree of certainty we believe it will be 29 and 30 and all preparations are in that direction. It remained open issues, it was heard in public, about funding, they were partly open for both procedural and essential reasons. However, I want to assure you that this will not be a question that will cause anything to get into a situation that will not be maintained. I think that through the preparation of this together, I don't want to be too optimistic and I don't want to be naive and say that we can do something, if we can't, but for such gatherings on average it takes between six months and a year to prepare. I think in these two 59 weeks, with these levels of activity, we've shown that when we really decide that we are able to do it. This is the technical part of the preparation that is extremely complex, which employs hundreds and hundreds of people and I want to say that we have managed to achieve proper coordination, that there is no such difficulty in either the national seams or the party seams, or the conflict of jurisdiction, that we have managed to create one, indeed, working atmosphere that is aimed at succeeding. However, what I said at the very beginning, today I held a meeting with all the ambassadors accredited to Sarajevo, we do not want to be a tourist agency and the place where the statesmen will come to take pictures, as on the safari, but we also want to give the relevant content to this summit. We felt that a meeting of individual directors of all participating countries should be organised, especially those from the region where specific priorities should be defined when it comes to the realization of the parts of the document contained in the summit. You've got one version of these documents on the Foreign Stability Pact, you'll get the latest version at the next session, 22. It refers to activities in three areas of work of three working tables: democracy and protection of human rights, then economic development and the third working table is dedicated to issues of security that are not just war. Today, the BiH Presidency adopted a report on the preparation of the summit, the Military Affairs Committee launched the first of its major initiatives of regional character, which refers to reducing the cost of military forces throughout the region, the initiative of our Presidency. In the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are also considering other activities, with this in connection with very close and close contact with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation, with the Council of Europe, which have direct responsibilities when it comes to the Stability Pact, we held very useful meetings Monday with Stability Pact Coordinator Mr bod Homak, and I believe that our foreign policy, together with other institutions, can play an active role. It is envisaged, as a possible idea, to establish a permanent communication between the parliamentary assemblies of the Stability Pact member states, in this respect, and to announce that as host countries for the first meetings, Romania and Slovenia are mentioned in some other areas, we have already offered our candidacy for some tables, especially those related to security, a significant part of the area of democratisation, given the specific experience of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the issues of economic reconstruction, since the economic reconstruction in BiH has so far been the most significant undertaking of the international community in the history of the world, much more significant, much more extensive and much more generous in terms of the number of inhabitants than it was in Marshall's plan. Any activity carried out by Parliament and the initiative adopted by Parliament at a session of 22 or earlier on committees will be welcome and we will try to get to know all of our colleagues, 28 of them, as many as there are members in the Stability Pact. I think we all get together here, and Bosnia and Herzegovina as a whole, with the Stability Pact gets a whole new chance, a new chance. Since certain assessments of the Stability Pact have been made, whether it is a recognition of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is a recognition that Bosnia and Herzegovina represents the heart of the region, it is not a recognition for the results achieved in all areas, but it is a message that Bosnia and Herzegovina is part of Europe and that it should also play a constructive role in both the region and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1831	Thank you very much, Minister Prlić. Any questions? No, so we're just taking this as information. Thank you very much. 60 Before we move on to parliamentary matters, I have a few notices for you. Here, let's move to the back of the agenda. Parliament issues, Gospođa Havel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1832	Honored representatives, In March of this year an assassination was carried out on representatives in this House and on Deputy Minister of Interior of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Joz Leutar. Mrs. Ren made a statement a while ago that the investigation into this assassination had progressed, we don't know anything about it, and as our associate in this House, I think we're interested in seeing how far the investigation of the assassination of Mr. Joza Leutar has arrived. The question is mine, to get information as far as the investigation came, were the initiators, the employers and the perpetrators of the assassination of Mr. Leutar? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1833	Thank you, here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1834	I only have one question. As the Council of Ministers of BiH intends to protect business entities from abuse of the name of the company, trade mark, quality sign, origin of the product and the like, since in recent times there have been a large number of lawsuits of business entities, between different business entities of both entities, it is done that the parent state-owned company of the Serbian-Srpinski Brod, i.e. the dependent state-owned company “Rafinery” of Modrica oil, sues “Energoinvest” d.d. Sarajevo’s “Rafineria” Modriča oil – Gradac work unit, Sarajevo bb. And he's asking for compensation on this basis on a five-million-dollar lawsuit. I suppose there are already such lawsuits, but I am interested in whether some safeguard measures are being considered within the Council of Ministers in order to avoid such lawsuits and compensate for the unlawfully lost assets of businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1835	Thank you very much. Mr. Spahić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1836	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask a very precise question. How does the BiH Council of Ministers think it organises the health care of the BiH population, when it comes to importing those goods, I will not say the reserve, but also the waste from the world, which, as a usable food of life today, threatens a good part of Europe and the world? Does the BiH Council of Ministers have a solution to the situation that has been related to dioxin or to a situation that is 61 related to other products related to the control of life supplies imported into BiH? And can the BiH Council of Ministers prepare an appropriate response? So far, we have seen that no entity has jurisdiction nor can co-operate with relevant world organisations because it is simply the task of the BiH state and it is a very important issue for me. That's the first one. So, to answer me, how do you protect the BiH population on this plan? Secondly, I would like to refer to the BiH Council of Ministers a request to inform us whether the Council of Ministers of BiH, given the interest of entering the world trade organisation, has prepared appropriate laws that also follow this entry, and this is a law which I am particularly interested in and I am setting it up, not only as an MP, but also as the chairman of the BiH Publishing and Bookmaker Community, which consists of publishers from all over BiH. Is it prepared and can it be adopted or in the procedure of a Member here in Parliament copyright law? If not, there is an interest in various institutions in BiH, in its entire area, to prepare and adopt such a law. I would ask, if there is this law, not to be exhausted, to respond on behalf of the Council of Ministers, is it in the process and is it in preparation for this law? It is known that such a law is impossible to adopt at the level of cantons, municipalities, entities, because it does not belong simply to the nature of things relations with other countries of the world. I had a conversation with the World Protection Council a few days ago... my own and the World Organization of Publishers in Geneva and I have to tell you that this is a key document that verifies, based on, as a country of standards, if we are talking about European, global standards, copyright protection, something that the Council of Ministers of BiH should respond to. That's all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1837	Thank you. I refer to your first question to read "The Official Messenger of BiH", issue 10, page 90, and you will have an answer to the first question. I don't think it's necessary because everything on the first question is clear, you have the answer, and on the second question, we will forward the question to the BiH Council of Ministers. Mrs. Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1838	A parliamentary question she would ask, which concerns the problem of parking the vehicle that MPs are coming to parking this building. If there's a reserved parking lot for a gentleman here, let us know, because the staff he's working there, it's so up-to-date that I had to move three times today because it's due to someone. I mean, to get to know you, a couple of times were awkward situations when we came to the car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1839	Thank you. Any more questions. Here, we have an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1840	The Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat addressed the Cantonal Ministry responsible for parking of vehicles in the city of Sarajevo – Canton of Sarajevo, and approved parking for BiH institutions located in this building. 62 We have informed the competent institutions that are going to place signs these days, all MPs will be able to park, there will be enough MEPs. So at the next session, when you get here, you'll all be able to park your cars here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-15-0.u1841	Thank you very much. Any more questions? If there are no questions, I ask you, a few notifications. First, a round table was organised in Tuzla on 21 July on the subject of "Constitutional Premises for Election Regulation in BiH". The messengers from both homes were called, therefore, the messengers and the Lords. They were delegates in the House of the Peoples, invited to the Round Table in Tuzlo. The college thinks it would be extremely useful for all MPs to go to this round table, we also have a proposal to arrange a bus ride from Sarajevo to Tuzla, not to take cars, because, see what time it is, there may be an accident. If you agree to arrange a bus ride leaving at 7:00, this way from Sarajevo in the morning. For the MPs who come here, and I think most of them will be here, because on Tuesday we will have a meeting with all the representatives of all the political parties on the preparation of this meeting on Thursday, and that meeting will be at 14 o'clock, which means that people will not be able to return, and since we are, thank Bog, divided into parties, almost all belong to another party. I think most people will be here, and those who aren't here, if we see that there are few, they'll come by cars, and most of them from here to take the bus, or we'll agree that we all take the bus. First of all, you who will go to Tuzlo, please sign up here to the Secretariat and see how many of you there are that you are interested in the bus, if that is a sufficient number, we will arrange a bus ride, and if not, you will be informed that there is no organised transport and that you are taking your own cars. Did you get all the programs? Yes, it is. So this one meeting is 27, and the second meeting is 27, but only members of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission go to that second meeting. That's one notice. Second notice. Rasim, I think it's a good point, but I think, too, it'll be even better if we put it on the spot, because we're talking to ourselves here, and I think it would be good, you're absolutely right, and I think we should say it there. Here, gentlemen, I beg you, here is a recommendation that those who want to go to apply here to the Secretariat to see how they want to go, by car or by organized transport, if it's enough for organized transport we'll go organized, and if not, that's it. Furthermore, another announcement, which is, should be held on Monday by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Who's the president, Branko Dokić. Who's the deputy, Ibro Spahić. Ibro, I'm asking you to stay here for a while to discuss organising the Commission's work. Another notice. Our one MP named Mijačinović, if I say so Mijačević, is gravely ill and I ask that we agree that a delegation, in front of Parliament, visit him. I think it'll be a human gesture. Can we arrange a visit or leave it to the Kolegijum to make a deal? It means that the College chooses one delegation, you leave it to us. I thank you, therefore, the extended composition of the Colleges with representatives of all political parties, at 14 o'clock on Tuesday. I ask the members of the Secretariat to stay. 63th Session finished work at 7:30. Hey, hey, hey, hey,
