ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3331	Gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to MPs, members of the BiH presidency, co-chairman, vice-chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, representatives of the OSCE, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the UN Mission to BiH, representatives of the FAR project, representatives of the US Embassy's political department in BiH. Representatives of public information funds were also invited to attend the meeting. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for attending the session. I am particularly pleased to welcome Mr. Beri, who is present today in our session, thank you very much on behalf of the Kolegijum and on behalf of the MPs. Dear gentlemen, I would like to inform you that according to the Service report, 25 MPs attend the session, this is a new piece of information, of course we accept 29 MPs. 17 from the Federation of BiH and 12 MPs from RS. The absence was announced by Ivo Mijačević for health reasons and Milenka Bošnjak for prevention and Mikulić Anita for prevention. Mr. Safet Oručević announced he would be late for the session. So, gentlemen, we have the necessary quorum to work and I suggest we get started. You were right before the session, you got the minutes at the 12th and 13th sessions, because that was the only way it was technically feasible. The other materials you got earlier. This morning at 10pm as it said on the invitation, a session was held with the presidents of parliamentary clubs and MPs who do not have parliamentary clubs. Some of the representatives were not present, but most of them were present. We agreed that for today's session of the College, with the agreement of those present, and that there were representatives of the CD Coalition, representatives of both RS political blocs, SDP representative, MPs' club and we had agreement on the agenda of members, vice-president of Skopljak, I hope that it is in front of the Croatian people, meaning HDZ. Thank you very much, sir, and HDZ is a Croatian people. We have agreement on the proposed agenda and I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Does anyone want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. I have a message. Today, we received a letter from the BiH Presidency asking us to grant approval for the appointment of the Chief Auditor-General and Deputy Chief Auditor-General. So I'll read you a letter, and you'll see what it's all about. 2 Dearlywed, we address you this way in order to, in accordance with Article 6, paragraph 2, or paragraph 2 of Article 7. The Financial Business Audit Act of the BiH institutions, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 17/99 of 16 October 1999, granted approval for the appointment of Mr. Ivan Miletić as chief auditor-general, namely Mr. Samir Mušović and Mr. Dragan Kuline as deputy chief auditor. The BiH presidency has established the candidates for those candidates, and we ask you to include this issue in the agenda of the first subsequent meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. We warmly welcome you. Chairman, Ante Jelavić I, of course, have read in the language of Mr. Chairman who is thus written. The college is agreed, unanimously, that we put it today, to give this approval, of course, we are also asking for your consent as the fifth item of the agenda, after the discussion of the details of the drafts, to be the fifth point, and that the 5th point of the Parliament's questions and suggestions become the 6th point.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3333	Gentlemen chairing, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished guests, I really appreciate the good intentions of the BiH presidency members to establish such an important function as the main auditor, that people be chosen, but I would rather be a supporter to get more extensive information on the proposed candidates, to once enter the stage, to name the people we know of which are in the profession they are proposing so far. I have to say that I've been doing research in the field of economic sciences for a long time and I've heard of the gentleman mentioned for the first time, which doesn't mean that it's not about professional and qualified people, but to get our top state representatives to be on board and thinking like that, I'm asking that the list of these candidates be completed with their work references, and I don't think it's too late to go to the next meeting of the Representative Council that's scheduled for the 15th of this month, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3334	The esteemed presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I think Mr Špirić's proposal is reasonable and rational, but December 15th will be too late. Why is it gonna be too late? If these data can be provided during this session, then we could possibly accept such a proposal. It will be too late because World Bank P's loan... is conditioned by the appointment of auditors at the state and entity level. That means, if there is no such appointment, we won't have these credit assets available during December of O.G. And there will be severe consequences for both entities' budgets. 3
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3335	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who wants to discuss the agenda? We have a compromise proposal here. Of course, Mr. Špirić here suggested that we look for a biography with, of course, a curiculum of vite in the profession, with movements and everything else. I suggest we put a point under 5. I believe that the BiH presidency, as a serious and responsible organ, has what Mr Špirić is talking about. If we don't get to the point, by the time we get to that point, we'll think we didn't get the material we needed and we'll delay the debate. Let's go out to meet in this sense what Mr. Bičakčić says, that we should not be a brake for further work, but at the same time keep to the dignity of both this home and the BiH Presidency and the candidates for whom the appointment is requested. So, compromise would be to put it on the agenda. In the meantime, if the person or memo does not arrive with this information requested, we will postpone that point for the next session. At this point, we will assign one of the members of the Secretariat to intervene immediately in the BiH presidency to deliver these data. Do under these conditions, MP Kadić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3336	Ladies and gentlemen, I support this proposal and I wouldn't talk about it. I would like to meet the PSBiH House of Representatives that we have adopted an operational plan for the implementation of the PSBiH Labour Programme and that, among other things, for today's session, the proposal for a decision on the organisation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, the Proposal for a Law on Associations and Foundations, the Proposal for a Law on the recognition of the importance of public documents in BiH, the Proposal for a Law on the State Treasury of BiH and the Information on the implementation of the Customs Policy Act. I would like to ask the chairman and the College what about the proposed points of the agenda and who will be responsible for not fulfilling the dynamic work plan of the PSBiH House of Representatives, i.e. we will not consider the proposed laws or information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3337	This question is important and deserves attention and the College has long discussed it. The conclusion of the House of Representatives was that only the points for which in time, which is the shortest period of seven days, came to the Members of the Parliament. The points that Mr Kadić mentioned did not pass, do not satisfy that condition, because we did not get any of this material from which MP Kadić spoke. According to the programme of work of the mandated promoter, it is the Council of Ministers of BiH. There in the Work Programme, look who's the promoter. It's not from any other promoter, because the program means both. That's why we in the College took the next stand. We cannot deviate from the rules that are agreed here, but at the next session at which it is scheduled to be discussed, let's say the 9th point, if the material arrives, this which is lagging will be extended to the points for which the materials are available. So we're going to stick to what this house has come to, and that's a unanimous position of the College, there's no shared opinion there. That means that for the next session, maybe instead of the 9 or I don't know, I'm sorry, how many dots you have, you'll have twice as many, that doesn't mean anything else. There was no material and this agenda is for those reasons, Mr. Kadić, the way it is. Any more questions?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3338	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I just want to ask one practical question. What is the meaning of the debate in detail in the draft laws? I'm only asking for practical reasons to know how we're going to discuss and how we're going to end up closing the discussion. I think you should answer that before the agenda is adopted, because it'll mean whether or not I'm going to define myself for such a point. Thank you. We also discussed this issue, which means discussion of details. The debate in particular concerns each individual solution provided for there. The MP will present his opinion on the solution, but it will not go amendment to that. The amendments shall be made to the proposal. We still don't have a proposal. We still have a plan. Let me do it again. The debate on details concerns every single solution that the MP there considers unacceptable, will give its observation argued as he sees the solution, but that does not mean an amendment response, as amendments are put on the proposal. We still don't have a proposal, because we have two drafts, and we're going to argue equally in detail about one and the other. As far as the work plan is concerned, what will follow next, which is also a question of MPs Čaršimanovć, following today's debate that the College proposes to last for two hours, by the 6th of this month, the Constitutional Commission should sum up the results and offer the text with observations that 15 would be submitted to the PSBiH House of Representatives at the meeting, and then identify which of the two laws on this basis goes forward and becomes the draft law. That's why it's 25 December. Everything we do, we do according to a program that's been delivered to both the OSCE and the OHR, and here's that program, and we haven't stepped down for a single day. Are you satisfied, MP? I'd like to ask you something else, but this is important. Can we today, for the sake of the efficiency of the debate, when it is said on behalf of MPs' clubs that the debate can last for the longest 15 minutes, but that is the condition that no one from that club should answer without the MP having his right ten minutes which, of course, is his business? So, let's extend the debate in terms of the efficiency of the work. If someone's going to go out and say everything on behalf of the club, then I don't see any reason why someone's going to pass more, then that club hasn't prepared. If we don't, no problem, we don't have to, I just thought for the sake of work efficiency. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3340	Is there anything in the Rules of Procedure that regulated the work? 5 Sir, he doesn't forbid what I said, MP. I did not restrict the right to an individual debate, but extended the right to work effectively, if you agree, if you do not, then nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3348	Gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the 12th session, when it comes to the text of the Decision, it is said that on the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in Article 2, a new item reads: "temporary accommodation cannot be achieved by using private property or an apartment to which there is a tenant right of displaced persons or refugees from BiH." The promoter accepted the amendment, right?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3349	Yes, it is. 7
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3350	The BiH Council of Ministers and he becomes an integral part of this decision, is it true. In the proposal for a decision, it's not like it's a consistent part of the text, so that's what's causing me to be confused.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3351	The text is consistent with that attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3352	The text is consistent with that attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3353	Absolutely. Should I read it? I think it's very good. I ask the sekretarijat why people didn't get it, MPs didn't get the final text, I don't get it now. The question is in place. The final text of the Decision to share immediately with the MPs. I'll read it in the meantime. A decision on the status and position of persons refugees in BiH. Article 1 The decision regulates the status and position of persons refugees in BiH from the countries created by the decomposition of the former AV Yugoslavia. Article 2 Entitys commit themselves to fearing that they will be persecuted for their race, religion, nationality, belonging to a social group or their political opinions and who are unable to dispose of their assets, i.e. are not able to restore housing rights in the countries that were decomposed by the former Yugoslavia, to provide temporary accommodation until they are made available with their property, i.e. until they are allowed to use an apartment where they had a tenant right in 30.06.1990. Temporary accommodation cannot be achieved using private property or an apartment that has the residential right of displaced persons or refugees from BiH. Article 3 The decision shall enter into force on the eighth day following its publication. Article 4 The decision will be published in the BiH Official Messenger and the official entity messengers. 8 Thank you very much. Please share. You've come to know, now you'll get the text. This concludes the 2nd point of the agenda and we move to the 3rd point of the agenda. Ad.3. Information on BiH's responsibility from 30.06.1999. I'm opening a debate on the 3rd agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3354	Speaks from the place whether there will be some opening remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3355	There's no one in front, I don't know who I'd call. MP, come out to get it into the stenogram. I apologize for telling you, but you need to get into the stenogram of this intervention of yours.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3356	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that this item of the agenda, in our opinion, is the opinion of the SDP MPs, and I believe that you share all that opinion in a certain way, is extremely important, not because we would be given information on how much money we owe, but I suppose because we would make the right conclusion regarding some measures or conclusions that should make some future information better about this same problem. For this reason, I ask you, as chairman, to find out, if no one from the Council of Ministers of BiH is able to make relevant introductory remarks to this, that the current session of Parliament that is now under way, You stop, give a break, invite someone from the Council of Ministers of BiH who will say something at this point in the agenda. If, in order not to report again, I think this is too important a matter for us to take off the agenda, so I suggest that someone from the BiH Council of Ministers contact us, who is prepared for this topic, and if you would like to tell us in advance that there is no one capable of doing such a thing, I would not, in that case, report to the BiH Council of Ministers for 15 minutes, it is a brand-new moment for the SDP MEPs Club, because we want to consult in the light of the fact that no one in the BiH Council of Ministers is here today ready to give us information about the country's duties.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3357	Thank you very much. I just want to tell you why I said it. I have been informed that the gentlemen who could give the opening statement on this subject are on the official path, but, behold, Deputy Minister Božanić wants to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3358	Dear gentlemen, just to let you know that the competent ministry and the competent ministers are on their way to Seattle, as you know, there is a World Trade Organisation, so there is no real man at this point who could inform you of this agenda. Of course, there could have been a transitional solution to 9 of one of the co-chairs and chairmans, and they are not there, and I am asking you to take steps in that sense.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3359	poslanik Špirić and Ambassador Dokić. Meanwhile, while MP Špirić is coming out, I apologize, did not enter the stenogram, but I want him to enter the second item of the agenda that the decision was adopted only on the second item of the agenda, which I did not say that sentence, and it is important to enter the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3360	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, esteemed guests, I have seen my vision of the BiH Council of Ministers here several times publicly and said what I think of the work of the Council of Ministers and therefore I would not repeat it. It would be good if we were to have an oral explanation from the representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, but you see, we are such a country, when one minister goes on an official trip to keep MPs from staying for a part of the information that may have other ministers or co-chaired in the BiH Council of Ministers. However, unfortunately, the way of deciding, who on behalf of the BiH Council of Ministers can perform here, speaks enough about the present, unfortunately, and the future of BiH as a state. Since this does not seem to be too much of an interest to the co-chair of our home, because each time they need someone to read and interpret the Rules of Procedure, instead of knowing it by heart when someone wakes them up, I am rather prepared to discuss important matter like this today, to give our opinion and suggestions to the BiH Council of Ministers, because there will probably be many questions to which we will have to get a response from the BiH Council of Ministers, but I am not against it, of course, to honour the SDP's request for a 15-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3361	poslanik Dokić, MP Tokić, but now I want to see, I want to see, Ambassador Dokić asked for a word before asking for a break, and MP Tokić and MP Mrs Muminagić asked for a break, a word after asking for a break, so we have to agree, after this I am taking a break.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3362	Mr. Chairman, if you allow, I mean, this is not the first time that we have received very serious material at the BiH Parliament's Representative Council, which was sent by the BiH Council of Ministers without anyone defending this material. I therefore propose that, I would not owe it, I suggest that it be realized that none of the members of the BiH Council of Ministers were present at the Assembly who could answer parliamentary questions and defend the proposed report. I would not call it taking it off the agenda, simply to realize that we could not discuss this item on the agenda and that it was one of the last warnings to the BiH Council of Ministers, a warning of their seriousness. I'm not ready today, really, to discuss and make suggestions written by someone who had to be here for 15 minutes to defend what was written there. Personally, I don't think there's a need for a break on this agenda, because it's illusory to discuss this without having anyone to comment on and ask. 10
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3363	Thank you very much. Still, the MPs' club asked for a break, and I'll respect that. 15 minutes break, at 1 hour and 15 minutes we keep working. Please take your seats and continue your work. [[PAUZA]] Are there enough MPs? - 28. Thank you. I ask the representative of the SDP Club to inform us of the break and the results of the agreements they have made.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3364	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club of BiH, I propose that a debate be held today at this session on BiH's responsibility with effect from 30.06.1999. Since there are no representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers who could answer the questions asked, we suggest that this debate has the status of a principle debate, as we also had a debate on the Electoral Law, and that the questions asked should be summed up, further, in the context of this information, and that the questions raised for the next session of Parliament should be answered when we will accept or do not accept the information with the presence of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you very much. I ask you, we have a very clear proposal from the SDP MPs' Club with one addition. We have nothing to accept or do with the information, the information is not accepted, but received to the knowledge, therefore, please only this correction. As far as I understand it, the SDP MP's proposal is to hold a debate to record all issues and recommendations and instructions to the competent ministry which will respond to the Council of Ministers at the next session under one of the agenda points and make it mandatory to inform us at the next session, with all the answers to the questions raised today. That was the SDP proposal. We had a proposal from MP Dokić. Is MP Dokić joining this stance or asking to vote on its position as well?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3366	He's speaking from the scene even though I don't see the point. How many people are in the O.R.? - 33. I don't think there's even a need to vote on this, there's no reason, because this is quite the attitude that's acceptable, the agenda point is going to stay, we're discussing under these circumstances that are being said. I call on Ambassador Tokić to take his word. 11
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3368	Speak from the place I said...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3369	Thank you. After that, Mrs. Muminagić asked for an apostle, then Rađević, then Kadić, then Špirić. Rađević quit. Order: Ms. Mumunagić, MP Kadić and MP Špirić. I suggest that the word be taken by Mrs. Muminagić. Poslaniče Lagumdžija, you are dissatisfied, I have written down your name.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3370	The esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, I have just called for procedural reasons to suggest that we work on this kind of information according to the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, which is to be considered previously by the working bodies and to raise on the working bodies the issues that we should discuss, inform Parliament about the answers, if we can get them from the Council of Ministers of BiH, that is, to propose conclusions that the Council of Ministers of BiH should be taken. And I'm protesting this time that we're not doing it that way, but that's just procedural, but when I got here, and we agreed to do this on the agenda, I want to say something about the information itself. The SDP club's responsibility was requested, I think, back to a 4-5 session, just when we discussed ratifications of a series of agreements that we accepted certain BiH's responsibilities, regardless of who the end-user of the funds is, behind the ratification of the agreement stands for BiH. The ratification and takeover of credit stands in BiH as a state and we, as a responsible Parliament, should know at what level of responsibility we are taking on new obligations. We should know what the state of the country is that it can restore these obligations, in other words, we should have all the information that will tell us whether our resources are total, whether our production, whether our exports, whether our balance of payments are able to accept commitments. I do not dispute here that we do not need funds, we need resources very much and it is good that we can still find funds under these favourable conditions under which we agreed on ratifications for the loans we discussed. I think that, as a responsible Parliament, we would have to have the other side. That's why I want to say something about this information now. We received this information that the level of duty, not the level but the level of BiH's debt from 30.06.1999 is about a billion and seven hundred fifty million dollars, I say around because I round the figure, for easier work. However, we did not get basic indicators that could determine the degree of BiH's responsibility that we need to see if the country is able to accept obligations and return them. Secondly, we know what the mechanism is, but we don't know if this debt-returning mechanism, we don't know if it can work at all times. That's two of my basic grudges that I have on this information. I am here, I will not say the promoter, because this is the material that is prepared, tells us that the assessment of the overall state of responsibility of BiH and the rate of service of the external debt of BiH is very difficult to give, because there is no exact macroeconomic data necessary for the country for this analysis. Not to read any further, that's the point. When your data doesn't exist, we're in a difficult situation to work with. 12 My call for discussion is precisely that. I'll remind you of some earlier data from the World Bank study, which, however, since 1997, I've had no other data available to me, but the past situation hasn't changed. We have the information that in 1991, BiH was in charge of a billion comas of zero-seven million dollars, but at the same time we have the information that we had a trade balance surplus. Now I'm not going to talk about the numbers, not to hold you back, which means that the country was able to pay you back and, let me say, it was in good shape, according to the data. In 1994, the debt grew to 3,245,000 and in 1995 to 3,518,000,000. The data that speaks of the debt balance, not to say otherwise, is catastrophic, which we know, because we couldn't repay those debts, so there was a restructuring of debts. Debts have been restructured by one part being written off, one part being reprogrammed, so the current amount of duty is this amount that we've been informed of, which means 1,750,000. The World Bank study said that total exports from 1990 to 1995 fell from $2 billion to $150,000. That information tells us what our condition is. If today we want to talk responsibly about the degree of duty, we should have this information. My proposal is that the Council of Ministers of BiH, we do not end the debate with this, so I will not be able to formulate in particular now, but to give the obligation to the BiH Council of Ministers to provide mechanisms to enable the monitoring of economic indicators at the country level in order to make decisions or consent to ratification of documents in the right way, i.e. responsible. My second observation, or the observation on this information is, on page 4, this information is said to remain in the category of countries, BiH, is thought to be not highly in charge, although we do not know whether it is in the category of countries that are highly in charge, because we have no indication that we see it, because and half a billion in debt is large if you do not have exports, if you do not have a gross social product enough to return it, and we have 1,750,000. So, it says here that we would stay in the category of countries that are not highly in charge, taking new loans BiH will have to provide in the coming period the rates of economic growth that will be higher than the rate of growth of the country's debt and that it is constantly maintaining a harmonised ratio of debt and economic growth. This is the conclusion that the BiH Council of Ministers, or a particular ministry, is responsible for this, says... We would have to as a responsible Parliament to see how we can provide this, and our Council of Ministers of BiH, and I like to call the government even though the government is not called in the Constitution, should, if the government is responsible, see and say this. Otherwise, any further borrowing is on the line. I do not accept such a way of working and my thinking is that we would have to approach more responsible work, by using our work programme, as well as by the Council of Ministers of BiH with our work programme, predicting that we would do a strategy of economic development that we do not have, and the predecessor to that strategy is an analysis that we have asked here to get basic indicators, economic indicators, or information about the country's economic movements, and to see what our situation is. Parliament has accepted that information to be discussed, I would only ask that this information be seen by the light of day as soon as possible. It is not only Parliament, it has accepted the BiH Council of Ministers to give such information. So mine are two suggestions. One is that we need to provide, or that we need to provide, if we are to do this responsibly, tracking indicators at the country level, because the country is in debt and another, which is a key issue, more essentially, is that we provide what we are told here is the ability to take new loans, by looking at where we are and establishing a development strategy that will provide such work so that we can repay new loans.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3371	Thank you very much. 13 The poslanik Kadić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3372	Ladies and gentlemen, although the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers came to the meeting in the meantime, I would nevertheless take advantage of the opportunity to say that the chairman of the House of Representatives sent a letter to the Co-chair of the Council of Ministers of BiH this month, sending them a precise operational plan to implement the Work Programme of the House of Representatives, with the obligation to deliver materials on each scheduled agenda point. At this point, it is quite certain, which could be expected, that the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would say, still cannot offer proposals for law and acts for Parliament, which could be logically expected, but what I want to say very openly is the following. If we waited four years or three years for this PSBiH House to finally adopt a programme of work with, to adopt it by consensus, then it seems to me, I will be very decadent, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives cannot be held hostage by the Council of Ministers of BiH. We cannot be the hostages of the BiH Council of Ministers at the moment when there is political agreement that, among other things, these are the points of the agenda, especially the laws. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to remind the College that four members of this house, based on the Rules of Procedure, requested a special meeting of the House of Representatives on Economic and Social Policy in BiH in 2000. Unfortunately, it hasn't come to the agenda yet. But on this occasion, I would like to encourage the Council of Ministers of BiH, the governments of both entities to go towards comprehensive information on economic and social policy in BiH from its competence and measures that will be adopted by the PSBiH House of Representatives and which will then be, in a certain way, work for the BiH Council of Ministers. Thirdly, although we have accepted that today we are discussing this material, it seems to me, and I would like to join my colleague Muminagić, the fact that this has not been discussed by the working bodies and the fact that today we did not have an opening explanation for this agenda point that it significantly reduces our opportunities at today's session. In this respect, I would like to just make 2 or 3 comments, the first question is 1. Can BiH provide such a rate of economic growth that will go beyond the country's debt rate? Another thing I would like to ask and it seems to me that this needs to be discussed in particular is the issue of the succession of the former Yugoslavia's assets as something that BiH is undoubtedly in its own, I would say, pluses and minuses and which should enter into some kind of total debt ratios, i.e. the charging of BiH as state and treći, in this information, in its text section, it is said that there is an encouraging trend of automatic entity transfers to the state of BiH, as a payer on the basis of signed contracts, i.e. loans, of debt. On this occasion, I would like to ask the Council of Ministers of BiH, when we have already chaired the BiH Council of Ministers, that I should also encourage political entities in the country to establish direct financing mechanisms for BiH to the extent possible and acceptable at the moment, as I think there is growing 14 political wills both in entities and in the state of BiH that the BiH state has its original incomes and that it is establishing so-called. the original state revenues to the extent possible.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3373	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in all democratically developed countries, when such an important problem is found on the agenda of their parliament, such as the duty and policy of the debt of the state to other countries to conduct bile and professional polemics. When we have information, we're not ready to discuss it. When we have no information, then we demand that we have information and the question arises as to how much we as MPs are, essentially, able to get into trouble to give the BiH Council of Ministers useful suggestions about the problem on the agenda. When, and how much memory I am served, we have often asked that the Ministerial Council inform us about the way BiH is in charge, the degree of maturity of obligations, the way of payment, etc., and I think that we will have to hold discussions in BiH for a long time on how to borrow, the degree of responsibility, and when in general BiH will be able to come into a position of self-sustainable economy that we are so anxiously discussing and what representatives of the international community warn us about. On the basis of what it says in the Information, I must say that, therefore, on the basis of this information, BiH is an overindebted state. This warns the data that only in the last four years, from 1995 to 1999, since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, BiH's debt exceeds over 50% of BiH's pre-war debt, so a debt that is real 45 or 50 years, although we know that the international community and how it tried to help BiH write off certain credit debts. Another thing I want to draw attention to is that after four years of establishing peace, we do not know what is the gross social product of BiH, what is the country's payment-balance sheet position, the movement of exports and imports. The question is, who's going to do us that kind of analysis? It is not that anyone expects the international community to come with these papers to the table here and it is not true that such an analysis cannot be obtained, but must, with close co-operation with the Central Bank of BiH, cross the information that is harmonised for both the RS entity and the Federation of BiH entities, which means that one full analysis can be reached at BiH level. The question is why we don't do it and why we don't have that analysis. On the side, I think the text section, page 4, is said "to stay in the category of countries that are not highly in charge", you can think of hypothetical assumptions, to take new loans, BiH will have to ensure in the coming period the rates of economic growth that will be greater than the rate of growth of the country's debt and to maintain a constantly harmonised relationship between these two categories". It raises the question of what are the rates of economic growth that provide such a relationship and what is the level of BiH's debt and how in general these two important categories lead to a harmonious relationship and who is again in charge of defining the borrowing or debt strategy of BiH. Do we even know which body in BiH should go to the MPs and says the borrowing strategy of BiH is that and that. To get into this situation, I have to tell you that what I read, what comes to me to read, and I have read almost one fantastic analysis written by representatives of the international community, saying, "If the international community moves a little bit or weakens the assistance of the international community, the collapse of the entire BiH state in economic terms is threatened." It appears to be a conscious international community, but BiH's top state representatives are not aware of it because they think the international community will show unlimited patience in the donation of BiH. What worries me as an MP is that we do not have an analysis of 15 spent funds and whether the level of donation and credit debt of BiH has put us in a position to have a positive rate of economic growth guaranteeing that BiH will enter a better economic future. What I see as a sign of BiH's economic and economic economic environment is the following. 1. The international community, we need to be honest, shows some anxiety about what we are doing at BiH level and, therefore, its two entities. 2. A self-sustainable economy is not being built in BiH. There are still political structures that are held exclusively in power thanks to the selfless assistance of the international community, I would not do so in a credit or donor relationship. A high level of corruption in BiH does not give us the right to expect unreserved and credit and donor support from the international community. The strategy, the stagnation of general economic growth, is at the level of complete BiH and its entities if a quality analysis is made. Large unemployment, the process of transition or privatisation is just a problem in BiH, we must be aware that these processes do not go at the desired pace, and in order to go, there must be something stronger in the credit line between BiH and its entities and, ultimately, I must say, only the realization of Annex 7. The Dayton Peace Accords, according to the budgets that we have worked under the Faculty of Economics in Banja Luka, but only for the RS, to respect the will of people to return, to return to their hearth would cost 4 billion marks, which would say over $2 billion. If BiH is involved, it's somewhere near 10 billion marks. Does anyone really think here, I can't understand that there are people who think that the international community is going to allow itself the luxury of getting into such a serious project with five or over five billion dollars unless the domestic, political state environment gives at least signals to the international community that these funds will one day be returned to those who lend or donate? What particularly bothers me is that in Parliament, by adopting the budget, we have not singled out a dinar for our own science. Who should define the debt strategy or the new debt strategy of BiH? Gentlemen, scientific institutes, scientific houses, not MPs, not members of the BiH Presidency, not the BiH Council of Ministers, is there a greater reason or better reason for this Representative Council to decide today that two institutions, one, say from the Federation of BiH entity, one from the RS, that the level of debt and entities and BiH as a whole will be dealt with separately, that we will pay for such research and that this will be one expert basis, relieved of political speculation and mutual plantings? Can a country that has neglected its own scientific potential expect it not to be in charge, to have a high rate of economic growth and all that is expected of us? I'm convinced he can't. She can't have an international mind, and if she wants to, she can cover what I'm talking about. Therefore, I ask you today to leave this debate with a suggestion to approach the project of an analysis of the existing level of BiH's responsibility with a projection of the possibility of a new debt. To make it clear to the international community when BiH, if the project is such a growth, will be in a state of self-sustainable economy, when BiH will be able to repay old loans without new credits.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3374	Will you bring the end?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3375	And if we're going to be in that situation at all, that's what's missing from this kind of debate and this kind of analysis. Thank you very much, and I am putting this proposal to the vote, 16 to see what situation we are in to support BiH's science through research, of course, not donor.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3376	That when there's a budget, I'll take one of those positions, you make a proposal to the sekretarijat.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3377	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we certainly have one very important material for BiH today and for the overall economy and overall projecting of BiH development. If we're looking at our conclusions and what we're looking for, we're basically getting it. We did not get certain qualifications because it was not possible to give them for a variety of reasons. We are sure today, based on this data, we cannot execute the classification and say that BiH is over-indebted, in charge or under-indebted. We have a debt, I would call it pre-war, which is as big as it is and which entities have accepted, practically, at least in RS, as a commitment to the budget. So, we entered into a rather difficult situation from that point of view, or a number of business entities, and that was probably one condition in negotiations with these seven major creditors that the state took over and we did not adopt one material, when we adopted the BiH budget for this year, we got a clear classification for the RS and the Federation of BiH, exactly according to the economic operators how much the debt of a single economic entity is, but all of this is in this amount of $1164,000. A debt of $584.000 that has been created since 14.12.1995 is very important from a further perspective on how to repay that debt and what it is investing in, whether or not to achieve effects with these loans, those that are foreseen. I'm not saying it's not important debt and this one, it's very important, it's big, of 1,164,000, but you saw there that certain conditions are set depending on the gross national product, how much interest will be, how much will be further classified, etc. What was I gonna say? It would be very important to me, if this material clearly shows up until 2039, in every year how much the anuity is and how much interest is there. I said from the lack of a set of data, and as far as I know, World Bank experts control one budget and these two budgets and determine certain proportions based on the gross product of one and another entity, whether further responsibility is possible and where the debt goes, let me say, to one entity and to another entity and to where the total BiH goes. But what we all want here, we want to see one vision and not just talk about a self-sustainable economy as one political flossula, but really on the basis of certain data, we want to feel what day it's going to be on some cross-section where this self-sustainable economy is going to start. So I'd like to ask a few more information to prepare to discuss all this. Of these 584,000, I'm not talking about those 1,164,000, again because we've got a clear structure that's in charge and when it's in charge, it means how much it's invested in the economy, how much credit is invested in the infrastructure, I mean, under infrastructure, electricity, roads, railways, telecommunications, how much credit is invested in non-economic activities, hospitals, schools, etc., and how many loans have been invested, i.e., received for the grant budget. I mean, if we do that loan classification on those four basiss, we can see more clearly, without any conclusions, and in what way it is invested and what effects, in practice, we expect. So I think that this material that we've got has taken one picture, without certain conclusions that can certainly be given, but with more effort and work and based on what 17 is defined by macroeconomic policy in one and another entity, and that these forecasts give certain forecasts and classifications.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3378	Dear fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, I would like just a few words to say, how much business time it allows, stressing that what I'm about to say is just a small tip of the iceberg than what should be said on this topic and I hope that we will have a chance when we get the information the way we agreed on at the beginning of work. I first propose that we agree in principle that the Council of Ministers of BiH will give us one material that would reflect all these issues mentioned here, from the questions just mentioned by counterpart Rakić, counterpart Muminagić, colleague Špirić, colleague Kadić, and that I do not take all those who possibly report. We expect, however, to get one much, much more complete information, not to be well informed, but to eventually make this all look a little different. We here have, very clearly, that in 2039, by the obligation of that and that, for interest we will give so many and so many decimals. However, this is one information that is probably important for Parliament at the moment as information on the current temperature on the southern half, a belt of 420 meters from the half. So there's nothing we can do about it, it's probably cold and we all know that, but objectively, it doesn't mean anything. Unfortunately, we do not know what economic circumstances will be, not in 2039, but what they will be in a year or at least three years as seriously planned in serious countries. I think we all agree that this information and, I remind you, and the reasons why we asked for this information to come to it, not because the problem is the absolute amount of debt, it's not the problem, the problem is the economic perspective that's being built on the basis of the debt that we have and the relationships that, I'm sorry that Mr. Beri, I'm glad he'll come later. He recently had a very good exposure precisely to the future of BiH's economy, and if we had divided this preliminary exposure as material here, perhaps some new issues would have been imposed. In fact, it's about this country's problem, the economic problem isn't the amount of our debt itself, it's all what we're talking about right now talking about the debt. I would also like to ask that the following information, technically, now technically speaking, not be as it is here. If someone tried to read and follow what's written here, I don't know how they managed to get through this. This is information in a way, I'm not saying that this is made-up, but the way this was given is actually prompted everyone not to read this. It's unreadable, even to the fact that it's technically poorly copied. Here you have the reference numbers of a loan that, I mean, doesn't know except for people who do it for nobody and what it all means. I would also like to warn that we were recently, I don't remember, about two months ago, maybe even more, when we talked about the Work Programme, or much earlier, and also half a year ago we asked here to take this information similar to that. We got information here, but I'm sorry Mr. Prime Minister of the Federal Government is gone, he came out, he was just asking where was that information when you got it. As many got, possibly in the post office, they've been stuck in the last few days. This information, it says here, was made by the BiH Council of Ministers on 16.9.1999, so two and a half months ago, and we got it two and a half days ago. Basically, it's not the way it's done. The BiH Council of Ministers knew it had an obligation from parliament to deliver this information earlier. It is not the sekretarijat's fault, you should not ask where he is now when he is left, right because it is seen that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly came on 24.11. It is seen here. So, from 1609 to 24.11., it went from the BiH Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. If this had been received two months ago, we'd probably be talking to me today in a different way here. We wanted, by the way, to organise some expert 18 debates in the context of institutions and clubs that we have as a political party, because this is too much to allow them to end up like this in a parliamentary debate like this. As far as concrete information is concerned, I want answers in this material that we expect to ask a few questions. It is very clear here that arrangements concerning the Paris Club are so much and so much, however, it is also said here in one footnote that data relating to some countries are not complete and that data relating to some third countries do not exist, or that we do not have information. If we don't, we should answer, if it's said that we don't have data related to the Paris Club, for example, a commitment to the UK or Canada or Japan, we should answer why it is so that, however, there are probably objective reasons why so. In this information, it can be read that in the framework of regulating its pre-war duties, BiH has so far concluded arrangements with the World Bank and that all pre-war duties are regulated, according to here, by three consolidation loans a.b.c. which, I suppose, are the working names of these loans, which is quite logical to give credits working names. However, behind the a.b.c. loan It says here, under quotes, it's a big loan, because it's a big one put under quotes, I don't understand whether it's actually a small loan, because it's said that this loan is, I couldn't believe, about $600,000, and it's one of those, I guess, consolidation arrangements called a.b. and c. It can also be clearly seen here, although we can only pay it there sometimes, if God gives good luck, so it will be paid off without a problem with a 30-year maturity and a grace period of 5 years with variable interest, it turns out that, no matter what 30 years from now, that we already paid $17 and a half million in this year and that, too, in this year, we will pay another 17 million dollars, and the real crowd is only 30 years from now. I don't think it's a bad thing to talk about it a little bit more to the MPs so we can talk about it. It also says in this information that a favourable arrangement has been concluded with the London Club of Trustees, which I have no doubt at all, where the total debt has been reduced and divided, as it is said, in two parts, fundamental and optional. Immediately, it is said nicely that the underlying debt will only be paid off in 20 years and a grace period of 7 years, where, since the option is, there is nothing to say, there is probably more options, so something should also be said about it. I think it's very good that there are several findings in this information that are probably talking about the despair of the people who made this. I fully understand that despair that is natural, if you need to give a macroeconomic assessment, especially about the country's macroeconomic perspectives, and you have no elemental data on it. I think this finding, on the 4th page of the first, or second paragraph, particularly, which speaks of the fact that the overall responsibility of BiH and the rate of service of external debt is very difficult to give, because it is officialism, cannot be given in a relevant way, because there is no exact macroeconomic data for the whole country that is necessary for this analysis, people honestly tell us that they cannot give them. I guess on the basis of this sentence we should give something, some conclusion to ourselves or give ourselves some task of how to get to this, some measure programme, or say what these measures are so that it doesn't come to this in the future. You know the other night someone, I was just watching on TV, how happy he was because our country isn't on the World Bank list from the point of view of corruption, probably because we're not being measured by people. The problem with this country is 19 that in all the tables we're gone, we're gone. The problem is, my colleague Tomić, I have no doubt that there is an answer to this, and I believe that he will find himself in the Information that was concluded at the beginning that he will be given, but objectively, this results in a mass of similar examples in which you can see, any relevant publication, you have specialized magazines that talk about Central Eastern Europe and their economies, all relevant institutes dealing with Central Eastern Europe are now making a sum of these previous transition periods, 10 years from the fall of the Berlin Wall, none of them have BiH, so we are not, we are not measured, and since others do not measure us anywhere, they can't even mention us and that's the problem we can't close our eyes to. I think this information is welcome that she's offering us to see how we can measure ourselves. It is also said here that the nominal height of the external debt will grow in the next period, and then the factors are listed. I wouldn't want to read these factors here, you've all read them, probably, each of these factors requires an appropriate, if nothing, finding. What do we do to make these factors different? Here, too, the Information says that the country would remain in the category of countries that are not highly in charge, for taking new loans, BiH will have to provide economic growth rates that will be higher than the country's growth rate and continuously reflect a harmonised debt and economic growth ratio. A colleague Kadić has just asked this as a rhetorical question, although here in this paragraph there is an answer which is also a rhetorical answer. To remain a country, it has to be. We don't need it, we know it, it's an academic debate. We need what's to be done here, is there anything planned if you already think you can do it? I think this paragraph requires a response from the BiH Council of Ministers. And also, here it's very, I think it's big, let me say, the quality of this information, point two, that talks about service obligations and a commitment service plan, because here, very bravely, the topics that are actually perhaps capital. The question is who's going to pay all this back in 30 years or 2039. It shows here that progress has been made compared to 1996 and 1997, and that one estimate has been given here that during 1998 a certain, quote, "the shift towards the establishment of an entity's automatic transfer system to a state account". The question arises, what was done in 1999 and what is the perspective of this and, in the end, the answer should be asked, at least the question should be asked. Is this meant to always be solved this way in the future and what international financial institutions tell us about these mechanisms? I would also suggest, as the last part of the information that stood very brave on the 4th and a half sides stands here, that, in the absence of the country's original income, this system should continue to develop, so that BiH's obligations towards international creditors are not at stake. It says here how it should be done. I think this conclusion, this passage should tell us in an appropriate way whether it is, whether it is expected to be done and, if not, or if there are problems, which are problems. I want to draw attention to the mass of questions that I expected to be found in this information already exist in other documents that have nothing to do with us. In fact, I expect the BiH Council of Ministers to respond to us in this information which has been projected by the country's debt in the next 4 years or five years or by 2003, the more the debt in the material with which the BiH Council of Ministers went to a donor conference in May, the truth is that it is not the Council of Ministers' material but the European Commission and the World Bank, it says that the projected debt in 1999 is 3.18 billion, however, here it is seen in this Information that our debt, both contracted and engaged, is much larger than the one that was designed, not so long ago, in May this year. 20 It can also be seen that the employed debt is greater than that which was valid in May for the order of over 100 million, which, I fear, is a little bit of a significant figure in our terms, too, I think that the Information should give us an answer to the question of what percentage of the debt is going to be in some period of 3-4 years, or expected to know what we measure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3379	I'm asking you to bring in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3380	I'll bring the discussion in. In bringing up the discussion, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are more mass issues I expect to be answered by the BiH Council of Ministers in its information on which we are given financial needs, trade deficits or surpluses, if this is the case, foreign direct investment and debt service as a percentage of exports, a elemental matter, as some of the projections for the next 4-5 years, so that we can draw appropriate conclusions on this basis. Introducing the discussion, I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to remind you yourself that in point c)10, unlike point c)11 in our work programme, point c)11 The information on the total debt that we now have at our disposal reminds us of point c)10 which says that in December, by the Council of Ministers of BiH, we will have prepared the realization of international loans as well as the loans used on the basis of donor conferences. Since we already have that information in preparation that, then, for this information, we are trying to get an answer to the question which the BiH Council of Ministers think is not to put in the Information on BiH's debt, but the questions I have addressed, in any case, we are expecting answers now to do one thing, which is that these debts we are making would be in the function of economic recovery which, in this way, I want to draw attention to, in this way, we are driving a difficult and cold winter out of which, it is not about how much we are in charge, but it is about being in the spring of the economic disaster, taking into account what is happening now. Please, we warn ourselves once again that BiH's economic collapse is at hand.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3381	poslanik Branković, then chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3382	Respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, dear guests, say art is a subjective reflection of objective reality. Policy and discussion are probably some kind of art and they are subjective to objective realities on our occasions, so probably, using this information on BiH's responsibility that we have received from the Council of Ministers, depending on the subjective relationship to this material, we can analyse and observe this information from at least a thousand sides. I could personally find a lot of objections in this information and ask a lot of questions. However, as an MP of this Parliament, I do not want to enter into the data, in the table, into all these projections obligations until the last years of returning these loans, because I think this is the job of experts and, on the other hand, I will talk more about what we are like this home, as MPs of this house, we have missed to do and we should do so in order to be able to ask questions with full right those who submit this information to us. 21 I would prefer that we ask ourselves a question about how to cross the path of this information so that one day it becomes a report. Why am I saying that? I, as an MP, would have the full right to ask people at the BiH Council of Ministers questions if we set them up. We, as Parliament, as the PSBiH House of Representatives, should set up the BiH Council of Ministers' tasks through clear policies in the essential areas of this country's life, both the ongoing life and projecting the future and economic survival of this country. I would, first of all, give criticism to us, and perhaps in some way initiate, because there is an opportunity for Parliament to take advantage of its rights and to give two basic levers and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and in such a way to this country, that this country has clearly projected roads and flows on how to move forward. These two instruments that are at our disposal in Parliament are, above all, clearly defined policies and clearly defined institutions that will implement policies that should be adopted by Parliament and that through the institutions set up by Parliament they will be realised. With these discussions, look out, we all want to have economic progress, some normal life in this country that is our country, but obviously we don't all tell it to the end and we don't admit that we need to make a country that will make it possible for us. No other formula, except to make a country in that capacity that Dejton designed, certainly can solve these questions and dilemmas that we all ask. The only difference between us is what we give as a method to solve these dilemmas. The fact is, from all these remarks, from this report, and other things that we ask of the Council of Ministers of BiH and make observations, that we, as the PSBiH House of Representatives, are guilty of not projecting the Council of Ministers of BiH's capacity to monitor our work and our demands. I in this, first of all, see one of the methods of solving this problem of crossing the path of this information to make it a report. This State, in order to be able to project whether the annual rate of growth of the social product will be greater than the obligation to be credited, can in any event only be projected through clear policies to be adopted by Parliament, within its competences assigned to it by the Dayton Constitution. Every regulated state, and we, whether or not we want to, will be either this year or next year, if we go within European integration, globalisation, must come into the phase of harmonising our laws and our policies. First of all, this is where industrial policy, social policy, transport policy, energy policy should be mentioned, because these are all separatists in the overall integration processes. The European Community has just been integrated from the Community process to the phase of the Union through a clear definition of these common policies, they are implemented through legislation passed by parliaments. First, the leverage we need to give to our BiH Council of Ministers is clearly crystallised and precise policies in the areas of economy, industry, transport, energy and all relevant instruments that define what economic life will be like in this country. The second lever I was talking about. We should clearly implement what we said at the beginning of this year that we should capitulate the Council of Ministers of BiH, at least according to the dimension of our demands, and most of all according to how it should be according to the BiH Constitution. The fact is, and this debate today also confirms that the Council of Ministers of BiH with three ministries that we have in the way it works, cannot respond to all the demands of its daily work, so let's just say that the Council of Ministers of BiH is serving the work of the BiH Parliament, can't satisfy it either, and I'm not talking about all the other executive activities it has. Let us be honest with ourselves, that one of the conclusions, because of the remarks made to this information, is 22 that we pass a new law on the BiH Council of Ministers as soon as possible and that it is in the capacity to objectively carry out all the tasks, all our obligations and all our demands as the BiH Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3383	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, I first apologize, on behalf of the Council of Ministers of BiH, because my colleagues from the resolution ministry are not here, but you have heard this before and I will try to provide some further information on the information on the responsibility, but also on some issues raised through this agenda point. In fact, it is likely that if someone had been from the resolute colleagues and had had an opening statement, he would have directed the direction of the discussion of his duties in the direction that this information provides. First of all, at the BiH Council of Ministers, we are extremely pleased that we have come to such information, simply, and this is what many MPs here have said, from all parties and people, that BiH's structure, when it comes to the duty and management of economic flows, does not allow, to say so synthesized, even synthesized recording of what is happening in BiH. Namely, from the Bureau of Statistics which has functioned, which still depends on the will of entity institutions whether to send them any information or not, whether they are worth and need for a level of BiH or not, up to information on the establishment of the debt. The credit and assistance of the European Investment Bank was over 4-5 months late, and it was not a small amount of 100 million ECI in the first tranche, because the entities could not get an answer about the end-user, and they were taken, the user of the loan was, for example, the beneficiary of the loan. BiH's electricity industry that now has its Successors in existing businesses. 4 months lasted until, with the help of a little pressure from the international community, the generous prime ministers of the entity signed it and accepted it and we found it as it is. There are many elements that affect, above all, information here and in this context, I believe that the Information, as it is offered, is, above all, a good basis for discussing the level of duty and what we have done. I, first of all, would concentrate on these two tables, old debt and new debt. Unfortunately, there was no debate here, in one essential sense. When you look at the debt to the World Bank, you see that the level of old credit and renewed credit is approximately the same. So, at the World Bank, through a consolidation loan, a.b.c. no debt reduction has been achieved, as was later achieved at the London Club, at the Paris Club, etc. which is an extremely high burden on BiH further. At that moment, it was four years ago, it was one of the preconditions for any arrangements with international financial institutions, without which BiH could not, but without which no donor programme could be realised, because the assistance of the World Bank and the IMF was, to say the key part of the project. As you can see, the London Club has been halved, debts to the Paris Club, etc. When it comes to a new task, just to point out, the Council of Ministers of BiH has and is now in the final debate stand by the arrangement, I think that this is what the BiH Parliament should take, too, for one simple reason why the World Bank and the IMF, together with the authorities in BiH, were the bearers of the reconstruction and reconstruction project BiH and the fact that at the end of this donor period we did not reach those heights and elements that were planned together in those programmes. So, we think, and in this sense, I am asking Parliament for support, that it is necessary in this direction to ask for some stronger, say 23, messages to get into the discussion about the write-down of at least part of the interest during the war in BiH, not to mention other things. When it comes to a new task, please, this new responsibility has been verified by the BiH Parliament from A to Z, primarily by the Foreign Debt Act, according to this Parliament, and it has been decided by the BiH Parliament on a framework mandate, according to this programme, which was about, according to the World Bank and the IMF, 650 million plus these others, and which is essentially respected and which, by the strict procedures of the World Bank and the IMF, could not go further without the decision of the BiH Parliament. Other projects were ratified by the BiH Presidency and the BiH Parliament, in accordance with the constitutional procedure. So the new debt was granted in full and supported by the BiH Parliament. However, the fact is that for next year, BiH needs to provide around 188m marks for the service of external debt amounting to around 13% of the total budget funds collected in BiH. At this point, it's less important who picks them up, because the base is the same, but it's mechanisms, so to speak, to collect these debts. I have to mention one more thing here, which is that this BiH debt, shown here, couldn't be fully shown and that's why it's open stuff, because some things are in the process. We have concluded framework agreements with the Paris and London Club, but now negotiations are under way with each country individually, to detail, the removal of that debt. Believe that every day certain new information that did not exist in BiH appears, the borrowing system does not go through the new Central Bank of BiH, because the new Central Bank of BiH does not have that jurisdiction, and the National Bank was in the process of liquidation, so that part of the documentation was blown up during the war, so simply for these reasons certain things are still open. Of the most important Bosnian-Herzegovina creditors, relations have not been cleared yet, entirely, with Kuwait and Russia. By having a better situation with Russia because we also have certain claims from Russia and that is what this ministry is up to in the coming period. However, this debt, which has been made here, according to my personal assessment, is perhaps 80% of BiH's debt at the moment. The rest of the debt was created in entities, at county levels, and even in municipalities. BiH is in stand by arrangement. Stand by arrangement is a financial protectorate for a country. In the stand by the arrangement, it was made clear that there is no internal borrowing of BiH and borrowing is one of the elements strictly monitored. The latest review of the stand by the arrangement found that BiH entities are in debt from commercial banks, to issue guarantees that are also in charge, and even to approach now a system of sovereign guarantees issued by the counties to create BiH's debt. The mechanisms for this, unfortunately, the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. the foreign debt sector, only has through a stand-by arrangement report, because it is not competent and in the capacity of the BiH Council of Ministers. In this context, a number of issues that have essentially affected one change in the constitution and the relationship between BiH authorities and entities and lower levels of government have opened up here. This only shows the fact that there are no mechanisms that the BiH Council of Ministers can fully manage this process. If the Foreign Debt Act is read and what is in practice in the role of the Council of Ministers of BiH is to represent BiH, or its entities at the ceremony 24 signing international credit agreements, because overall bargaining and negotiation are being conducted on entities, resolute ministries and after entity governments or co-ordination committees sign that they have agreed on these duties, then these papers come to the Council of Ministers of BiH, which then prepares the flags and the signing ceremony of the agreement. For this reason, I think that a number of issues addressed through this information to the BiH Council of Ministers are essentially addressed to the wrong address because the mechanisms in BiH have not been set up in accordance with the directions towards which these issues are addressed. As the most frigid example of these relations, I have, yesterday or yesterday, read in the newspaper that in Banja Luka, the prime ministers of the entity agreed on customs tariff and customs policy for the next period, etc., which is the direct constitutional jurisdiction of the BiH Council of Ministers. When I asked the Head of the Department of Foreign Trade to send me these materials to see which direction to go, if people had at least agreed, at least we have an agreement on something to go, he told me that the customs tariff was not prepared at all and that he didn't know what they were up to. It's one illustration, or there's another better illustration, I don't know if you'll be able to see it, but I took for example just paying excise taxes on alcoholic beverages in the Federation of BiH. This is the curve for last year. This is the curve for this year. At this lowest point, when the curve became one horizontal line, this is here in June this year, the date on which it was signed, following pressure from the BiH Council of Ministers when the Interentity Agreement on Tax Harmonisation was signed, the agreement was signed and the revenues disappeared afterwards. So, obviously, through these two examples, I have said that I am illustrating only this situation which is related to both borrowing and debt, through these two examples I have indicated that, simply in this segment, first of all, the conduct of economic policy, the creation of responsibilities, there is no system that can secure what the BiH Parliament is looking for, answers to all these questions, and that is to say, one creation of an economic environment that will ensure that BiH comes into a position to return its debts neatly. Unfortunately, we will certainly be in a position for at least two years to follow the level of our obligations, so that at least BiH will remain a partner to the international financial community in terms of creating a precondition for new times in which economic recovery can indeed be completed and BiH will take the projected place that was projected for 2000 years, which we obviously have not reached. In this context, I suggest that this information on duty, it is really information about duty, therefore, figures on created obligations and from them, I say, I say, what is most important to me is that this part of the debt to the World Bank and the IMF is not reduced, but only reprogrammed, which, in addition to these obligations, this year creates, we had a debt service obligation somewhere around 80 million, this year, for the next two years, this line is still going up, and apparently that the degree of economic development and economic activity will not allow it to return and give full support to all those who highlight this issue of economic activity and the survival of BiH as a key issue for all these other things that are. That is why I propose, if you allow me in the end, that when this information is planned for the next month on loans, the use of donor funds, I think it would be good for the BiH Parliament to also consider a report on the implementation of a stand-by agreement with the IMF, which is essentially an economic policy of BiH, coordinated with the international community and imposed by the international community, because the instruments which are now being implemented by economic policy, I say, are indicatively at the level of BiH standing by arrangement and two credit lines through the World Bank, therefore, this privatisation and foam. 25
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3384	Thank you very much, Mr. Tomić. I want to say a few words, since no one answered. Gentlemen, first of all, let me say hello to you, and since I'm not an economist, but she says a folk proverb that you don't have to be a chicken and that you know what a kitten is, and in that sense I'd like to say a few things. I think that the PSBiH House of Representatives, as well as the BiH Parliament, has voluntarily punished itself and accepted a second or third-rate role when it comes to BiH's responsibility and what happens to these money that comes to BiH. Of course, we have a role here, you well know, in Article 4(d) that we ratify all these agreements, it seems that you need to have your hand up here, and probably you could do something quality to model some other inventions that would raise your hands and lower when you have to and when it's required. But we don't have to bother much, we wanted it ourselves, by the fact that we accepted that what we're being referred to is called information. The information, gentlemen, goes to the one who understands what he can and how much he knows and accepts what he knows, so he's doing well, well or wrong, so he's doing what he's doing. That's why I don't think that the BiH Parliament should ever accept in this area any more than the reports, because if we give consent to ratification, then I guess the BiH Parliament must adopt a report on what happened to the funds that came in such a way, through our ratification. It is important for the citizens of BiH, and we keep swearing that their representatives, citizens and peoples, do not care what our reports are, what our information is, but how it reflects on life, so it would be good to know and to tell the public how much money has come, where it has been spent and how much it has affected the economic empowerment of BiH and in which segments, in which areas of life and whether it is true, it is satisfactory or not satisfactory. It is not clear that some international loans in the BiH area are bought and social peace and that very few of these funds are in the economy for what our distinguished guests from international organisations say, which is called the path to a self-sustainable economy. Now, I think that's a very little investment, and that's why I couldn't accept, as an MP, that we're listening to information in the future, but I'd ask that we listen to reports that we're qualified to report. Thank you very much. poslanik Kadić, are those replicas? Replications.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3386	I must tell you that I'm quite pleased with Mr. Neven Tomić's performance, if we open a serious debate here, we'd probably hear a lot more than he might have been ready to tell us when he started talking after this pay phone. Two of his statements that they can't get data from any serious authority, even those that would have to be given another statement on the full non-coordination of the debt, and in particular a statement of his serious concern that BiH cannot cover the level of debt through its own economic growth in the next 2-3 years are alarming statements to the BiH Parliament and all political authorities in BiH. That is why I believe there is an urgent need to strengthen the request of four MPs: Mrs Mediha Filipović, Mr Branković, Mr Spahić and myself who have joined the other MPs to task the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare a special session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Parliamentary Assembly on economic policy in BiH, which would be so prepared to try to determine these misunderstandings and this one, I would say, I would already say, the 26 grammistic struggle between individuals and governments at all levels in BiH, where even the data on debt is hidden, but very transparently represent their own results at all levels. We cannot, like the BiH Parliament, remain deaf to just part of what Mr Neven Tomić told us today. I, believe me, would be worried or worried about what we may not know yet. I believe that individual information on the level of debt, on the realisation of donor funds, on the payment of loans, etc., will not lead to real results and improvements for this country. That is why, and I have information from Minister Kurtović, who told us about this speaker, Minister Kurtović says there are huge problems in the concept of information about BiH's economic policy and these problems must be addressed in a certain way by this parliament. Only then could we talk about how we implement what is doubtless, original, original obligations between BiH and Parliament. 2. We could identify and think that the political will is already growing for, we could determine the elements of the new legislation that would improve these unquestionable holes, i.e. gaps in the negotiation, i.e. bringing economic policy into line at the level of BiH and entities and at lower levels. 3. I think we could establish a general approach that BiH's economic policy will not lead in such a way that the BiH Council of Ministers has no information on what it is responsible for in this country. 4. I think it is such a big obligation that the BiH Presidency and I, from this speaker, could be made known to the BiH Presidency, I would like to call on the BiH Presidency to give the order to the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare such material, which I am saying, and that will end, from the point of view of the fact that it seems to me to be growing political awareness in BiH of various political groups, parties, etc. that we finally start to focus on BiH's economic space as a single economic space in which there are our common, unique obligations and where constitutional rights exist at all levels. For the end, I would like to propose to the College to activate and engage more actively in the preparation of that session we asked for, and it seems to me that this debate today, particularly Mr. Neven Tomić's presentation, and especially that he did not say at this session, motivates me to say that we are looking for one of these sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3387	Thank you very much. poslanik Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3388	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am different from my colleague Kadić, I really don't know what would lead us if we heard what Tomić didn't say here. But what Tomić said is really something I sincerely thank him for because in one, I have to admit the unexpected and unusual way, he opened up issues that are high time to open up, because when I say they open up in Parliament. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, to order the sekretarijat to deliver a stenogram from this agenda by emergency procedure to the SDP MPs' Club. Also, I propose that, in the context of what we agreed at the beginning, that this item of the agenda be some sort of overture or additional material for the Council of Ministers of BiH which needed this point in the right way to prepare at one of the next sessions, to deliver this stenogram to the BiH Council of Ministers. I think a 27-point stenogram should be delivered to the BiH presidency, that the BiH presidency should be warned of what can be heard about this speaker here. Namely, I, my colleague chairman, expected from you that your discussion would be focused and I am pleased to hear that you started from the information to the report. I think that's a good way to go. See, from the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, we've heard a few things each of which is especially enough for itself to turn on the red light in Parliament. We heard, that we understand each other immediately, I fully agree with it, I don't know if I'm doing Mr. Tomić a favor or not, and I think his exposure really opened the right questions in the right way. As we are told here and as you have already told us ourselves that we ourselves wanted to bring ourselves, as Parliament, into the position we have come to, I want to draw attention to that need to be modified a little bit, you have brought yourself. Here once, I said, a thin red line was formed, because it was seen who was getting into that situation and who wasn't going to be in that situation. Part of Parliament is being put into a situation where only amenation is being made here, and then today Mr Tomić rightfully says, "Lords of Parliament, you have made your own decision here that we should be in charge of 1.1 billion KM or DEM," we did. Neither is the Council of Ministers of BiH nor anyone else, Parliament has done so, but in this House not everyone has done so, but most in this House have done so, and the minority has been trying to stop it, to turn to a different way. We have heard from Mr. Chairman here that the BiH Council of Ministers has no debt management mechanisms. It's not a secret to me, it's not a secret to the largest number of you. It is not a secret to the BiH Council of Ministers either, but it has been an official secret to this parliament, because we have not had the opportunity to hear it here so far. It's, in itself, enough that we don't need this information anymore. Mr. Tomić's discussion told us a lot more than the information we got here, and I think she's welcome, because the worst thing would be if we were done with this kind of information. We have also heard here, I warn, that new responsibilities are not going through the Central Bank, because that is how the Constitution defined them, and that documents from the National Bank on responsibilities from earlier, among other things, have been blown up. Every Parliament in the world knows that things would happen afterwards. We have heard here, in my opinion, perhaps the most alarming thing from the point of view of the current event, that 80% of BiH's debt, by rough estimates, goes practically past, sorry, that this is 80%, and here at the introduction, there is no Prime Minister of the Federal. The man said give those auditors a minute to vote, because otherwise we won't get any new money, that's us, that entity. Please, we've heard here that entities, counties, cantons, whatever you want, and even municipalities, are heading towards creating new obligations, which can't be tolerated anywhere. We also heard here that the harmonisation of income in two entities stopped revenue on one basis, that's enough reason to have a special point about it. We also heard that the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, who probably understands most in that BiH Council of Ministers what he was talking about, in general, about this topic, learned from the paper that two entity prime ministers had agreed something. That's enough reason, I won't say what. We also heard here, with a full, so to speak, the argument that we do not have mechanisms to create an economic environment that will allow debts to return in the next 2-3 years. A relevant man, a relevant man, told us from the relevant post that when we adopt this information, we adopt it or do not adopt it, however we bring it, for the next 2-3 years we do not have the economic power to respond to the repayment of debts. So what do we do now? We're looking for new information. Is this all together, and that's why we're asking you to urgently get a stenogram, I'm asking it to be concluded that the College is doing it in an extended, however you want, composition of 28 agreements on the preparation of a session of Parliament in which these issues will be raised. What are we talking about? Whoever can go anywhere, it doesn't matter if something is in Banja Luka or Sarajevo, whether it's 100 meters or 100 kilometers from here. It is said here that there is no money to return with this economic policy. What else do we want to hear? What else is there to say? Please forget the Work Programme, forget the Council of Europe. What a black council, I don't care what the Council of Europe wants to see me there. What do we need any information to satisfy the Council of Europe? We need to know what's going to happen to us economically by the year. I am saying this because the largest number of people in this House will change, in good luck, Parliament's structure by year, so as new people, new people, new political forces will not take over, they will want in these years as little whiteness as possible and as little poverty as possible, because we will all live together in this poverty. It's completely irrelevant who comes to power in a year. Let's see what we're going to do now, when we get there, in a year, in some new change, in some new distribution in Parliament that people don't have, that we just have to curse those before them for the first two or four years. That's why, Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you, I'm not asking you to vote on this at all, I urge you to step forward for Mr. Chairman and for what we've heard here we try to prepare a serious debate about what's been said here. Since Mr. Kadić insists, and especially, Mr. Kadić, you prepare the opening statement for what is not said. Get ready, if you want it to be the second item of the agenda, the debate about what isn't said, it can be, maybe it's a real story. For starters, let's start with what's been said, and it's alarming enough. You've got a guy outwitting here, we know a colleague and I, Rakić, we can now be on the subject, whether the entity will or won't, and what budget it's in, but it's about the fact that it's all an empty gun in the end. That he will not run anything again in Cajevac as in Energoinvest in Stupe, nor Sokol in Mostar. The matter won't start from a dead end if we get information that we adopted the Work Programme and that the tragedy is the greatest that the Council of Europe takes us in as such. Well, I mean, it's really unserious. That's why I'm asking you to come out with a serious proposal. If you are not prepared for this, we will launch all the business and political opportunities that the issues raised here today to come before the big lights in BiH, the whole, this is all pointless further.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3389	Thank you very much. poslanik Špirić, so if it is not the replica Branković, it is not. I beg you, this is already the second notification of all of you, whether you extend it a little bit or cut it short.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3390	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought the debate on such a significant problem would bring to an end, not to potentiate those things that will make a start from the end. All who plead to bring economic policy to BiH level, not respecting the BiH Constitution, the entity's constitution and the Dayton Peace Accords, are working on a fine line for BiH. We must give a warning that the entity development strategy and economic policy that the international community insists must be harmonised in order for BiH, as a state, to effectively take over what belongs to it under the Constitution. Everything else is, believe me, on the line of political events and punishment for BiH. That's why I thought we'd bring this debate in the way we've led it today, 29 that we're not opening a series of things that BiH citizens tomorrow, not in a year, not in two, unfortunately, they won't be fed up with.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3391	My replica won't last two minutes. Since the previous discussion implicitly called what I suggested, therefore, the debate on economic policy at BiH level, I would like to say that I am in favour of a debate on economic policy at BiH level in line with BiH's constitutional powers, it is below one. 2. I hope I was very precise when I said, "the political awareness is growing that this parliament is trying to make, in BiH's economic policy, perhaps more than its original constitutional powers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3392	I would like to make a proposal for a conclusion that is not in the position of preparing better conditions for the arrival of new political options to power, but simply from an active relationship to the economic problem in our country, which is that the Council of Ministers undertakes to offer a new Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH as soon as possible, according to the structure and capacity that will be able to meet all the demands of Parliament and the implementation of the executive government in BiH, and thus the Council of Ministers of BiH proposes an economic policy, industrial policy, social policy, transport policy of this country in accordance with its powers towards the Constitution of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3393	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate, given that there are no reports under this agenda, I propose the following, the sekretarijat undertakes that the stenograms from the debate on this point of delivery to the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency and the SDP MPs' Club that requested it here. You have to be aware, I don't see any reason, I don't see the right to tell you, there are MPs who don't have a waist, which is simply, I suggest for that, I'm sorry about the paper sometimes, because neither is he so guilty. That's why I'm proposing to deliver it to MPs' clubs and MPs who don't have clubs, if that's already a better solution, and then you're going to multiply it, so I don't say use it. There's another proposal, just for a little while, MP, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3394	I want to ask, it's not a big expense, but if something is going as official information as a stenogram, if it goes to the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, I ask that every MP get a stenogram. There are many reasons for every MP to get a stenogram, if the stenogram is already being talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3395	Thank you, MP. You could have told me that from there. There is a proposal to be 30 MP clubs to make sure that expert teams in clubs do what they need to do and MPs who don't have a club. Is this better? If there is anyone, I don't think we should vote, everything is satisfied, which means that Mr Špirić will get it as the president of the club of MPs, and the other MPs, we'll make sure that we get the other MPs, no problem. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate at this point. I said nicely in a stenogram what to do. You just listen and he tells you everything. Please, you didn't listen to me then. When you get a stenogram then you'll see that I've said everything you've asked for and I absolutely support what you've asked for. I think there's been a debate here, and I didn't mean to do this with anything, Mr. MP, to make any situation that isn't at Parliament's height, so I thought I'd tell you that I support, absolutely, calling a special session. We had already agreed as a Kolegijum, but I thought it was already in the stenogram proposal, and I didn't think I should repeat every sentence now. I absolutely support it, and I think it's okay. The conclusion is that the College will receive, as will you, a stenogram and will follow these recommendations that have been made here. I'm finalizing this point one more time. I guess there won't be a third time, though I'd like to conclude for some other reason. Thank you very much. We should move to the fourth point, but you know, according to the Operational Work Programme, our break lasts until 15 to 16 hours. I suggest we cut to 30 minutes and start working at 3:30, and now this is a vacation and lunch, of course. Thank you very much. [[PAUZA]] MPs, esteemed guests, I suggest we continue our work. We've got a quorum in the O.R., it's half past four, moving to the fourth point of the agenda, that's Ad. 4th debate on details of drafts (a) The Electoral Law, the motion for delegates in the House of Peoples of Drago Ljubičić (b) of the BiH Election Law, the draft of the BiH Election Law, the proposal of the SDP BiH Parliament Club, proposed that we conduct discussions separately, in this order as proposed. I am opening a debate in detail on the draft election law of the promoter Drago Ljubičić. poslanik Deretić. I ask all MPs to try to be in debates shorter than 10 minutes, not to convince, but to make concrete suggestions about what they think.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3397	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, since I have not spoken to my colleagues from the Constitutional Commission for the duration of this first part of our session, we have not sat down and taken a stand on this draft until today, however, we will do so most likely at the beginning of next week, however, regardless of the fact, I will be free to make several important remarks here in general on the BiH Election Bill proposed by MP Ljubičić. 31 These are my remarks, in any case, which I am based on, and somehow, I am looking for a starting point on the basis of Article 3. Annex 3. The Dayton Agreement, Article 2nd point 2nd of the same and the Constitution of BiH, first of all, I appeal to Article 5. Generally, I will generally mention one thing here and that is: 1. A member of the bill states that the draft BiH election law is being regulated in accordance with Dejton, according to the logic in its jurisdiction only the selection of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and members of the BiH presidency should be arranged. All that behind it, there's a point there, one, in my deep opinion, I don't think there'd be room in the draft of this law. 2. All the provisions that are contrary to the RS Constitution, and in principle I'm just saying, are absolutely unacceptable. When I say this, first of all, I mean the provisions relating to a member of the RS president, when it comes to the length of the term of office, because it is really in the legal theory that it is unusual and unsustainable to discuss, or that we have one predicate of the legal text that already comes from the Constitution, from the fact that the Constitution should be amended, although we know that the Constitution is the highest normative act and that all legislative and sublegal acts must comply with the highest of that act, therefore, the Constitution of the RS. Also, my remark applies to the following. How this law should regulate election provisions for members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and members of the BiH presidency, then it would be quite logical that the BiH Election Commission has really great powers during these elections, however, these powers must only be at BiH level and not at entity level, because entities should have their own electoral commissions that would have competed at entity level. The same is the case where the issue of the work of the electoral committees, the appearance of ballots and everything in technical terms is to be regulated, which is necessary in order to implement the elections, all of this must be in the jurisdiction of the entity and regulated by some kind of, whether by entity electoral law or by some sublegal act. In the context of this story of mine, I believe it is absolutely unfounded that Chapter 12, which now exists in the draft of this electoral law, which tells, for example, works in the BiH Federation Parliament that it cannot be regulated at all by this legislation. Also, Chapter 13 where certain things related to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia are also regulated, there should also be no room in this draft law. Chapter 14 of the organization, of the cantonal congregations, of the municipalities, of the city’s congregation, etc. These chapters are excessive and would not have room for such a draft on the basis of the pre-mentioned legal provisions and legal acts. In that sense, I believe that all that I have said to exceed the competences of this law, or the Law of Elections of BiH, is that I will return again, and with this I will end up on Article 1 of this draft, which literally says in the first part of what is the intensity of this law and what is the jurisdiction of this law. In the text below, if, and I suppose we've all read this draft, these are really regulated in this way in certain areas, these are the norms that are imperative, these are the norms that, if we adopt such a regulation, mean from the highest level to the lowest level, everything will be regulated by this regulation. We're going back to what I've been saying all along. Not only when it comes to elections and everything else, it goes, unfortunately, and this kind of draft goes back to one kind of absolute unitaryization, even when it comes to elections. Therefore, I believe that this really needs to be taken into account, and in this context, I believe that 32 will probably come and there will be other discussions in this regard, and in this context I will propose concrete amendments to this draft law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3398	Ladies and gentlemen, the esteemed presidency, I would first of all notice that this whole debate over the bill is sort of going down in a bit of a paradoxal situation. On the one hand, some high representatives of the international community are signalling that if this election law is not adopted in its regular procedure by the end of February of the following year, it will be obstructed, therefore, by the end of the month. On the other hand, we are witnessing that there have been such objections in the debate so far, that the weight of the remarks made on this draft electoral law is of such a nature that it is very difficult to assume that such a draft electoral law in this text and context will be able to get the green light in the existing form of this home. When a man takes that into account, then, of course, he asks himself what is the point of a more serious debate when it comes to this electoral law and, of course, as an alternative solution, let's say, the need to maybe approach each other in a different way, in the sense that all parliamentary groups in this House form, or give their representatives, preferably experts in one parliamentary body that will try to make sure that the material that already exists, and we see that we already have two drafts of the electoral law, and there may be others who, on the basis of these existing materials, would seek to come into a broader discussion to a solution generally acceptable from most MPs in this House. Now, it seems to me that a man, although it is not a very grateful thing in politics, can already in advance counter one situation in which we will receive a law that most MPs of this house will not support at all. But what's there is. I will, given the title of the agenda, try to be specific in apostrophe of only some remarks, because of course the remarks have more and more and a good number of my predecessors, colleagues, have made their views, their observations, in that sense I would not like to repeat many of these things. I'm going to concentrate here on three remarks, actually three or four members. First of all, Article 1 of point 5 and Article 3 of point 4 which allows the displaced persons to vote in favour of the municipality in which they are resident, provided that evidence is presented that the displaced person has reported residence in that municipality at least six months before the day of the election. This is one member of the draft election law, if it were to be absorbed from the overall political context, the overall historical, political, of course, existing demographic opportunities in BiH, it of course does not have to be at all controversial. However, if seen in the context of our existing situation, I believe that such a member of the Electoral Law is nothing more than a refined version of the P2 pattern that legalises ethnic cleansing in BiH and naturally cements the existing demographic configuration in our country. I believe that these members of the largest distribution in the BiH segregation policy and from our point of view are both morally and politically unacceptable. On the other hand, I believe that these members are also in a deep conflict with the fundamental intensity of the draft electoral law itself, which allegedly seeks to contribute to strengthening BiH's multiethnic structure and promotes a policy of moderation and tolerance when it comes to BiH. One who, for example, analysed those comments there for the part concerning the preferential selection system of the BiH presidency members could see that this particular emphasis was placed on the overall draft of the electoral law, that the policy of 33 moderation, i.e. moderate political groups, was favoured through individual legal solutions in this text. The second thing, Article 11(6), which defines the number of members of the PSBiH House, envisions an existing 42-member state, which is also a really difficult thing to accept. We know that the Dayton Agreement has reduced the electoral competences of the state, and accordingly, in a way, we have received a reduced parliamentary body that we are working here. However, if the Dayton Agreement has reduced the competences of the state, it is difficult to say that the Dayton Agreement has actually reduced the country's responsibility for the overall state of BiH's citizens as a whole. If we set this thing to one hypothetical level, to assume one completely political and, in any other sense, counterproductive work by all state organisations and institutions of BiH, there is no dispute that would have an equal impact on the overall opportunities in which all BiH citizens live, so that here my general concern is that the simple responsibility of which the state, and therefore this BiH institution has to the citizens, of all BiH citizens, simply cannot quantify in this way that the reduced powers of state institutions reduces the number of Members of Parliament to only 42 members, I think it is an absolutely counterproductive and unacceptable thing. We, of course, know that in Europe we have a strong trend of decentralisation and that is the thing that we, whether by the nature of our demographic and overall political realities, are adjusted, but we will find it difficult to find examples of national, national parliaments with some 40 members in Europe. This has its own weight when it comes to interparliamentary co-operation. I am fully convinced that this home with 42 members cannot be a valid subject in interparliamentary co-operation, it is simply necessary to have one quality human and total base in order to be able to monitor all flows that are so important to us when it comes to BiH's integration into the European system of values. So at that level, I think my substitute for Article 11(6) is also gaining weight. Articles 14 point 9 and 14 of point 14 which discusses the establishment of municipal administration and cantonal government, say Article 14 of point 14 of the Cantonal Assembly, according to the system of proportionate representation of political parties, coalitions, the list of independent candidates or groups of MPs set out in Article 14 of point 5 of this law. I think it is completely unnecessary for the draft electoral law to regulate the issue of selecting the municipal and cantonal governments, and I think it is even more controversial that a proportionate principle is assumed here in the formation of municipal and cantonal administrations and governments. It is very difficult to assume in one canton that according to such a draft of the electoral law, a government that should necessarily be synthesized at the executive level by different political options, i.e. very often by each other's facing political groups, whose representatives should be found in the municipal and cantonal structures after the elections. I wanted to apostrophe these three things which, of course, did not exhaust a set of remarks I could make. Of course, I'd like to say that this draft electoral law also has some pretty good contents that are commendable. We usually go out here with criticism. However, I would like to say that this draft electoral law, and with this I will conclude, is very difficult to respond to in general, political and electoral terms, so to say, education of the widest structures of our electoral body and I believe that the promoters of such a matter should take due account. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3399	Thank you, Mr. Jahić, this is where I see Rađević. Has anyone else answered the discussion? Mrs. Ana Havel, then Mr. Tokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3400	My fellow Members, distinguished guests in the hall, as far as I could understand this draft of a permanent election law, I have an observation, if this is a matter of discussion in particular, especially in Article 3 paragraph 13, but, before I explain this remark, I would like to say that this time I am not only speaking on my own behalf, but during my activities, I was represented by the draft of a permanent electoral law on the basis of which I, in turn, happened to be addressed to me by the citizens, as a national MP, and most of these remarks referred to this article, so on behalf of this election base, I am saying so. In fact, this member is talking about a post-mail vote. I understand that in the previous time, in the situation as it is in BiH, the postal voting institution was an attempt to solve one problem as best as possible. We have seen in the end the results of all this, that it was a rather discriminatory situation, however, it is simply unacceptable, so if you want to be unthinkable, that a permanent electoral law draft provides for an institution to vote through mail. At least if the next election, because hundreds of thousands of citizens are not in their homes, that the situation has to be resolved somehow, but it is inconceivable that the Permanent Election Law, which will be worth maybe 10, 20 and 30 years in advance, is now predicting for so many years the institution of voting through mail, so I think that this member should be deleted, and possibly for the next elections it should be regulated somehow by a time limit. A member like this, I think he's unacceptable to the Permanent Election Law. I have another remark, and I apologize in advance if I didn't understand the law well, so maybe I'm asking what's not the way I understand it. If the entity is one electoral unit to elect a member of the BiH presidency, I believe it is logical and natural that the entity is one electoral unit and for selecting MPs for the PSBiH House of Representatives, because these are the same common bodies of BiH, and I see no reason, if I understand the draft correctly, that for the election of MPs of the House of Representatives, they were my remarks.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3401	Dear MPs, I made a series of remarks and suggestions at the last session of Parliament, and I don't think about the details much this time. So I would like to tell you this, we remain with those remarks that I made before the HDZ MPs' Club at the time, and this time I repeat them on my behalf, and I would just like to point out that we are particularly insisting that in this permanent electoral law only those provisions that are necessary for the level of the state, and all that needs to go to entities, and to municipalities, and these provisions in this law are indeed sufficient, that they are left in the jurisdiction of the entity, or to another level. I propose that, at the level of the BiH Law, only those institutions that are at that level, which is the BiH Presidency, and this is the Parliamentary House of 35 of the BiH Assembly, and that other levels should be as set out in Article 1 of this draft, to be considered, only in the principles. I would also like to say that we propose, that I think we should take care of the proposal we made, and it concerns preferences. A much better and more acceptable choice of members of the BiH presidency would be as it has been so far, to elect the person who receives the largest number of votes as a member of the BiH presidency. I know that there has been an observation that in all countries the elected member is required to have over 50% of the votes of his, in this case our people, but, otherwise, the peoples in one country. However, I also know that BiH is something special, that it cannot be counted as other countries in this sense and that this principle of absolute application of that provision must be over 50% votes, is not necessary, and that we would certainly get the right person, if it is the person who gets the most votes. At the same time, we are confident that this request will likely be met. Also, I would like to refer to these provisions concerning the resignation or recall of a member of the BiH presidency, we think that this should, however, be arranged in the same way, and if it is considered that behind the resignation of a member there may be another objective, then perhaps it should be taken to determine whether or not it is so, rather than to regulate these two situations differently. The largest number of objections I make to elect a member of the BiH presidency, and I will only talk about it today, so I would like to say the same about the deputy institution. An institution of deputies, no one can say, I believe it's in accordance with the Constitution. She's not in line with the Constitution. It is not foreseen in the Constitution and that we would add something to that constitution, does not mean that we would say that it is in accordance with the Constitution. I mean, an absolute institution of deputies, as such, could not be considered to be governed by this law, but if there was a way to do it and there was a need to do it and that is how it is and I think it can be done otherwise, I wouldn't elaborate this situation now, because it's about the Electoral Law. Although I'm saying I'm not going to talk about the details, but I really can't say one word that I've noticed in this law, I'm sure one five places at least, and I think there's more, and it's talking about scribbling. I really think that such a good law, I think of any state, should not contain that word of giggling, and especially should not come into the situation to decide in such a way on the choice of some axis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3402	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, I think that with this debate, the official, first parliamentary debate on the draft electoral law, we have opened the most important and I would say the historic question of the future of this country, as countries of three equal constituent peoples and all its citizens. I really expect that, in the context of this, the debates of all those present are in this direction, because it is nevertheless a marginal question of how any party will pass in the next elections, given what we need to address as a question of the continued prosperous future of BiH. I'll be very clear. 1. The existing draft election law proposed by Drago Ljubičić cannot serve as the basis for a proposal for an electoral law that would provide the interests of three 36 equal peoples and all of its citizens in BiH. Here's why. It cannot be because the task given by the Implementation Council to Draga Ljubičić by this electoral law, under the auspices of the OSCE, gave clearly defined tasks, among other things, to the need to affirm multiethnicity and the need to define the responsibility of elected representatives against all voters, i.e. citizens, regardless of which people or territory BiH belongs. None of these principles have been met. On the contrary, in the course of my discussion, I will show that this law in many of its elements is worse and more retrograded than the provisional electoral rules that were the basis for the elections in BiH so far. 2. This law opposes the BiH Constitution and entity constitutions and is opposed to peripheral political issues when it comes to entities, the BiH Constitution is opposed to formulating the special calling of the PSBiH House of Representatives, which is absolutely against the constitution and what is most important is the Constitution of BiH, essentially, where it is referred to in Article 2, paragraph 2 on the direct application of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the advantages of these principles over all the laws in BiH. I warn this assembly, if it adopts such a law as a good part of the political parties voted in time for the BiH Council of Ministers' Law, in some subsequent times in which we will lose months and even years, the BiH Constitutional Court will also declare this law against the constitution. I warn the international community, OHR, not to repeat the performance it made with the Council of Ministers of BiH, and they also have stenograms when it went out for a pay phone and said "responsibly we claim that the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH is in accordance with the Constitution" and the Constitutional Court later declared the law against the constitution. 3. The question why the SDP will ask for the conclusion of this law, which cannot be the basis for a high-quality, good proposal for the BiH Election Law, is that this law at the threshold of the 21st century promotes discrimination and segregation. We need to look ourselves in the eye at this moment and think about whether anyone has the right to leave undefined, in a discriminatory position, over one third of the BiH population and to prevent people from ever being candidates, or whether they have passive voting rights, related to elections in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in the BiH Presidency. I responsibly claim that such a formulation in every law, and the practice has already shown that it will be brought down in every court of human rights and I call this order there complete to answer my question, should such a discriminatory member suggest in his country and would you endure public criticism against those members? In return for their response that they are seeking a compromise, I argue that a compromise should not be sought among politicians who want the status quo, but among citizens. The SDP offers a basic principle of equality for all citizens and equality for all three peoples in the referendum, and I say that in this referendum, the largest number of citizens will vote that all people are equal before the law, before the Constitution, and that all three constituent nations should be equal in BiH. I really consider this a dramatic moment. Maybe some people just think, I'm talking about this line back there, as a moment in their diplomatic career where they're going to attach another positive step, another progress, but there's no progress. Today it is behind this speaker, I will not quote, someone said BiH cannot be considered as other countries. It cannot be used here as it is in Europe. BiH needs something else. If we can accept here that in BiH we cannot apply and should not apply European standards, it is said here today. Look at the stenogram, it's said today. Can we make BiH an abnormal country? The times will pass, different fights will be, the OSCE can make the money a propaganda, the OHR can press and suggest that it would be good for MPs to vote for this draft electoral law, perhaps provide a parliamentary majority, because 37 is thus prepared to take on each of the dominant political options, those of the same since the 1990s. and the '92s. which have made here the greatest political, wartime and whatever evil you want to commit to the crime may be provided, but before the court of the European public it will not be possible to defend itself and will not be able to defend itself against ordinary people, from the citizens we send justly to return to Srebrenica, Srbin to return to Bugojno, Hrvat to return to Banja Luka, no one can explain to them that they are going there as second-class citizens. If you can, please, but believe me, if not today, it's going to be red for that name and last name in a very short time, much shorter than what's being said here. And finally, in BiH over the past 10 years, there has been a battle for the status quo, non-changes, retaining the chaotic state, the absence of a legal system and trying to fight certain progress. This is the status quo law. I've been to a lot of conversations where it's suggested next. This law has been made here on purpose, tactically, by someone here also to give power to moderate politicians, for multinational parties, as a representative of the multinational party, the only one in Parliament where I sit and talk about people of the only multinational club in this House, to be very clear and decadent, to say thank you, gentlemen, thank you and drag Ljubičić, thank you both to the OSCE and to the expert groups and to the domestic so-called. Experts, this is not a law for multinational political parties. I think we're the only ones with a legitimate right to talk about it. If you are convinced by political parties, which, in their composition, neither in this House nor in the entity parliament, have, or almost do not have, any MPs from other peoples, that this is for multiethnicity, you can imagine well. I propose, given that I do not see the promoter here, and, Mr. Chairman, if there are no proposings, usually a point is removed from the agenda, you have consistently insisted, I do not know what it was for you to give up this principle at this time, perhaps someone in charge on behalf of the promoter, perhaps Drago Ljubičić asked some people from the OSCE to represent his interests here, I suggest that the promoter a) give up and withdraw this draft electoral law. If not, I suggest the PSBiH House of Representatives that for these reasons that we have cited and in the debate with the previous session, it is concluded that this draft electoral law proposed by Drago Ljubičić cannot be the basis for the development of a good democratically-determined Electoral Law for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3403	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I think it would be really funny if I were to try to defend gentlemen from the international community who sits here in front of various associations of the international community, monitors, assists as much as they can, they are not called the last-row people or those who are sitting out there, but it is more of a general courtesy of MPs to respect all those who want or have good intentions to help BiH. I must warn this home that the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and the Krajina I run is also multiethnic. I want to represent the interests of both Srbin and Hrvat and musliman, not that in my party there is a Srbin, Hrvat and Musliman, Bošnjak, I apologize, who will represent all these and such interests separately. There is a different view of this multiethnicity that almost stifles BiH, and it is not possible for this desired multiethnicity to come to an end. 38 I must also say that this law does not stand on the line of building a multiethnic BiH. No Niko forbids the parties to have multiethnic lists, if that's what the citizens want. This law does not prevent such lists from being made up, but if there is a general mood that on lists that are multiethnic there are not enough votes, we cannot rape the situation and say that the Electoral Law is to blame for such and advance such results. I want to say that this law has put a lot of effort into making, that the Office of the High Representative, the Office of the OHR and the OSCE, as well as experts who have also been on multiethnic basis, so both Srbin and Bošnjak and Hrvat have come to some proposal and here I do not agree in advance that the discussions we are having are in vain, because I assume that there are people who are going to be sitting there who are going to talk about the non-compliance of some solutions with the Constitution of BiH and entities to the satisfaction of the people, citizens and entities to install into this law. I apologize to the SDP party for not being able to talk today about the law offered by the party, because I really cannot compare two laws with the same subject, although there are solutions that may be better than the law that we are considering today. Here, I want to go concretely by the members, if this is a debate in particular, of course, it remains the right of MPs to act in the light of the amendment for the next session and finally, here, I want, like all or some MPs, to look forward to what BiH will come to the Electoral Law, which will not be imposed and octroised, and I want to say that, behold, MPs from the RS want to participate in improving the proposed solution. I propose, therefore, that Article 1.6 be in line with Article 1.7 and, of course, one and the other members speak of those people who should not be on the electoral list for these or those reasons, and I propose that Article 1.7 reads "no person who is present at the maintenance of the sentence, or who is legally convicted by the competent court, established in accordance with the Constitution of BiH, or the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, or the International Court of War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, because of serious violations of humanitarian law, cannot be a candidate to have any appointed, elected or other public office in the territory of BiH". It's just about synchronising, I think the problem is the same way that it's regulated, but this is simply simplifying the solution to be understandable.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3404	Ambassador, I apologize, I care that you present everything, but in such a way you will find yourself in a situation with a bad time, do not go by members, make a remark to a member, do not read both things.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3405	I'm asking the chairman to follow. I have an Electoral Law that I don't read at all, but I'm reading what I think needs to be changed, so I'm not going to get into college, I'm going to end up very soon. Article 111 should be agreed on the amendment of Articles 1.6 and 1.7, in the sense that the second position of point 1. 11. I propose that it reads: "In a period which starts 60 days before the election day, as on the day of elections, no person must be arrested", it is the same harmonisation rhetorically, does not change the essence of what is proposed. In Article 21, I propose that Article 21 reads "the election bodies are the Election Commission of BiH, election committees of entities, cantonal electoral commissions, city election 39 commissions, municipal electoral commissions and election committees". It is said in the law that these are, the election commissions and election committees are defined, so they are simply numbers. In Article 2.5, I propose to add the text under the quotes "implementation of the first elections after adoption of this law", and in point 2 behind the word "BiH will annul the appointment of members" to add "on the proposal of the entity election commission", it is therefore about regulating election results at different levels. Article 10. I propose that attitude 1 be changed and read: "The BiH Election Commission consists of 7 members, 2 Srbin, 2 Hrvat, 2 Bošnjak and 1 member from the others." Candidates for members of the BiH Election Commission propose the National Assembly of the RS, suggests 4 Serbs, the Federation of BiH House of Representatives' House of Representatives 8 candidates, 4 Hrvat and 4 Bošnjak, one candidate from among others suggests the National Assembly of the RS 1 candidates and the Federation of BiH House of Representatives 2 candidates. The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly elects a 7-member BiH Election Commission under the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure." Item 2 is to read: "if the RS and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives are not proposed within 30 days of the entry into force of this law, or 30 days before the term of office of the members of the Election Commission of BiH, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH shall determine the list of candidates and the selection of the Election Commission of BiH." Paragraph 3 is amended and reads as follows: "the list" to delete the word "four" and to put "ones from the earlier list", and the other four to delete. Article 2.15. adds, and for elections at entity level, on the proposal of the Election Commission of Entities, principles have been established and talk about entities. In 3.13, I think that Parliamentarian Desanka Rađević stressed the possibility of an election through mail, it is true that the demographic field of BiH is coming together, that it can create some shifts in the democratisation of BiH, but it is true that it opens up the possibility of various election engineering in the count, the identification of election results, and I suggest that Article 3.13 be deleted, as well as Article 5.28, which is in agreement with that member, which is related to the counting of votes. Article 6.4a) The entity's Electoral Commission has second-degree decision-making powers under the decisions of the local electoral commission. Article 6.14.2. I propose that it reads as follows: "BiH", instead of "picking 4 members", it should be "picking 2 members" in the order of the Supreme Court Judges. Article 8.6. I propose that Article 3 is changed and said, to delete the words in the third row behind the word "entity", to delete "as well as a member of the BiH presidency who resigned". I propose that Article 9.1 be amended and read, in determining, of course, the principles for selecting members of the BiH presidency. 1. The election of presidents and vice-presidents of RS is regulated by the RS Electoral Law. The RS president and vice president are elected by voters registered to vote in RS. 40
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3406	The college draws attention to you coming out of the frame of the point and we have a unanimous attitude that you need to focus on details that will not be of the amendment character, for that will be a second chance.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3407	Then I'm done. I didn't understand the essence of the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3408	I wish once again to those who will debate, that we do not come into awkward situations, this is not a debate in the amendments. The amendment can be made, the amendment will respond to the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3409	Can I rephrase that to yours? This is a debate about the bill. Any remarks made here are welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3410	Let's not go amendment, that's all.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3411	To make that proposal the way we wanted it to be and to make as few amendments as possible in that final phase.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3412	We didn't understand each other. It's okay what you say, but don't read like that.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3413	All right, let Mr. Špirić give the written text.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3414	Written remarks, that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3415	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I want to, as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee of this House, to conclude that I have called twice a session of the Constitutional Commission in the last two days and that both times the Constitutional Commission did not have a quorum for working and deciding on election laws. It is also indicative, I want to say here publicly, that this is the first time that the Constitutional Commission has not had a quorum to decide on since the 10 or 11 sessions so far. The lack of the Constitutional Commission's position on the existence or absence of a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is an important restriction for the debate on this draft law today. As an MP, I would like to say that, esteeming all the efforts that the promoter and those who have helped him have done so far 41 in the preparation of this law, there is one so-called. A fundamental question, which the proposer, unfortunately, did not have the political courage, but it seems to me that neither political responsibility nor political philanthropy would finally propose in the draft of the law. It is that the legislator did not respect the basic provision of Article 2, point 2, of the BiH Constitution, which says "that the rights and freedoms set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, in its protocols will be directly applied in BiH, they will have priority over any other law". This basic provision of the Constitution of BiH, which has been commanded by each other, is not respected here, but has been followed by other provisions of the Dayton Constitution, which themselves do not comply with this European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. point 2.2. The BiH Constitution. In this respect, there is an initiative by a group of MPs in Parliament on the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention on Human Rights, and I think it will be interesting to continue the debate on the crucial issue that ensures the equality of citizens in BiH. As president of the Liberal Party who is a full member of the European Association of Liberal Parties, I have committed myself to respecting the equality of citizens in every respect and I must say that I cannot possibly support this draft of the law, because this would mean issuing my political principles and betraying what I have accepted as a fundamental, liberal political philosophy. It is basically a democratic, political philosophy and for that reason, I do not care that certain provisions of the Constitution are contrary to international conventions. The OSCE has made a dramaticly poor political message for BiH. Instead of obeying the orderly constitutional provisions, which is the European Convention, he complied with constitutional provisions that are itself against the European Convention, let's say in the election of members of the BiH presidency, interpreting that it is in accordance with the Constitution. It is paradoxical, but it must be said, some of the provisions of the BiH Constitution are not in line with the basic human rights convention and that is the link we can move in. The fact that some of the provisions of the Dayton Agreement are against the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, a team above those provisions, and not under that European Convention which we have committed ourselves to accept and which is written as superior in this Constitution. In this regard, we could almost end the debate. Since we already have threats by those who propose the Law, the law will be passed and unless it is adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and since the political power system in BiH is such that in this case the Office of the High Representative ensures the possibility of imposing the law, therefore the alternative, this seems only to be a necessary but optional debate with this law, because the proposer, unlike other cases, has an alternative for not to be adopted in this House, or Parliament. I want to say this in particular, without any last thought, there are major progresses in this law, if we look at it only technically without this crucial remark, but I also want to say that there are newer discrepancies between what was written in certain members of the groups that wrote this law. If, however, the promoter accepts a change in this fundamental concept, which can be expected, I would like to add only a few possible improvements to the draft law for the eventual determination of the final proposal. First, I think that if the preferential voting system for the BiH presidency is going, then I would suggest going towards a preferential voting system for both Parliament and the PSBiH House of Representatives at all levels. 42 Secondly, I would suggest that the resignation of a BiH presidency member be regulated so that a member of the BiH presidency who offers resignation replaces the chairman of the House of Representatives from the same people of the BiH presidency who resigns. I would like to make one, I would say, of my remarks regarding the election of the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH, I am abstracting the story of how the constitutional solution and the response is now number 28 by the OSCE. In response, the OSCE's 28th response to the question of why the signatures from both entities are needed in order to register the candidate for the BiH presidency for participation in the elections, it is said, the signatures are a significant qualitative condition for any potential candidate running for the highest post in BiH. A candidate or candidate must show readiness to represent BiH as a whole and support voters across the country, especially in both entities. At the same time, in response number 4, it is said as a principle that in the event of the resignation of a member of the BiH presidency, it is necessary to ensure that only members of Parliament, i.e. the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, can vote for his replacement. Then it's said, "this mechanism most closely reflects the will of the people." If the OSCE says the elections to replace the BiH presidency in the PSBiH House reflect the people's will most closely, then why does the same proposal say "that the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH will choose not the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH but the House of Peoples of the Federation of BiH". In two cases, we have a different argument that is simply collapsing. I think that should be balanced, I only say this on the assumption that the promoter gives up this concept of the law and proposes an amended concept of the law in a way that would mean a little more courage and vision for BiH, rather than a rise to that concept that is signed under specific circumstances and which, as such, is not in line with the European Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3416	The list of speakers asks me to read. Speak now Rakić, Dokić, so I thought I'd put myself in, but I'll give it to Mrs. Čolo in order, and then Spahić comes Skopljak and Lagumdžija. Well, in the end, if he doesn't make it, then nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3417	Gentlemen, I would essentially continue the discussion I had last time on this law. Last time I tried on seven principles to say what this law should be based on. To speak of this law and its importance for BiH's stability, to establish a common structure of government based on the will of the people, I think it is illusory or to use one enormous rhetoric, whether a particular concept does not like any of the political options, can be used by any MP, but, however, I believe that what we have in front of us today, that we have one good basis based on many BiH documents and on what we finally have sworn that we will respect the Constitution and other documents of BiH. I would try to say a few concrete things, so in article 1.1, I would define that after defining the elections for the BiH Parliament, for the parliamentary parliaments and members of the BiH Presidency, it is not only about principles, but about saying that these will be the framework principles that apply to elections at all levels, which will be defined by the entity's electoral laws. 43 In Chapter 2, I propose to define an entity election commission that is not defined there, whether it is a small or deliberate one, but I believe that an entity election committee with its powers must also be defined. In Chapter 4, I do not think it is necessary, and with this we do not get anything, to ask for the voter's signatures to elect a member of the BiH presidency, it is Article 4.4, because it is clearly defined that a member of the BiH presidency chooses an entity election base, and it is normal for the entity's electoral base to run for office. So, to make a certain, or to say some kind of improvisation, I don't think it's necessary and that it's contrary to Article 4.8 of this law. Also defined are some things that are not defined in the BiH Constitution, such as the post of vice president. I do not think that this law can define the post of deputy member of the BiH presidency and that this law can only be done on the basis of the Constitution, and that the solution is enough that the president is probably unable to represent a member of the College of a particular people of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Chapter 9 defined the choice of president and deputy RS president. This chapter reduces the mandate compared to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to 4 years, which is likely to have to be harmonised either by the Constitution or by this law and would not be good to do beyond the Constitution. In Article 11, Chapter 11 of Article 11.2, the selection procedure for members of the House of Peoples has been defined. I think it's very complicated and that the current procedure that defines the elections for the House of Peoples is sufficient and effective and that there is never a legal void that the House of Peoples is not filled. Then, I believe that in Article 11.6, where it is defined for the election of MPs to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the RS provides for 3 electoral units and to be elected directly 9, i.e. 5, is obtained on the basis of the weighting of the results of these constituencies. I believe that if the RS is one electoral unit, for the president and vice president of the Republic, there is no reason not to be one electoral unit for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and that, then, we do not have to say, one indirect transfer of votes from one constituency to another to obtain final results, or final assembly. As for Chapter 14, which is the chapter on local elections, the local self-government, there I have one remark concerning the fact that, in the last Assembly, the new law on local self-government where a series of amendments have been made, so that the mayors of the municipality are elected directly to the elections, that the mayor of the city chooses the same directly, that there is no more executive board but has a municipal administration, etc., so this chapter would have to be totally in line with the Law on Local Self-Government in the RS. I also note that it is not good to define such a small number of councilors for large municipalities that have a hundred thousand and more voters and that we bring it down to 20-30 committee members where it is clear that no influence will be less political parties and will practically not be able to get a representative in the municipal assembly and, therefore, the influence of citizens will be reduced, mainly through larger parties. That's why I think that list should be made indicative and slightly different than it was defined here. In the end, I would say that, probably in the transitional provisions, the authority of the High Representative should lead to one harmony of real time and what is happening in BiH, because these powers are too high and too wide. In the end, I think this bill is quite high quality and makes one good basis for the adoption of an Electoral Law of BiH. 44
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3418	As MP Dokić goes, I ask you to prepare yourself for which order you are and to be as concrete as possible without the observation of the long ones.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3419	Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the proposal, the chairman, I'm going to give up those big words that everyone at first says, that we are at a historic moment, that we are bringing a very important act that needs to change our thinking and political structure. What I think about, we'll leave for another time, but what I think needs to be pointed out and why I'm going to argue is that it's a fair law that won't favor anyone and it's a law that won't allow different interpretations, different combinations and any subjective interpretation, that's what we shouldn't be here, MPs, to let those things go through here. Political practice has shown that every time someone wanted to put themselves in something in general unprincipled, that this unprincipled attitude and unprincipled persuasion eventually broke down with the same team on the head. So now we are in a position to neutrally prepare an act behind which we will all stand and that will equally respect and respect all. My general remark on this law would be next. The law could be divided into three legal acts. One that would apply to most of the BiH Election Law and what is related to the election of members of the BiH presidency, two representative, representative council, the Council of People and to define the principles by which entity laws will be made. Then three laws can come out of this law. One more time, I repeat, at BiH level with principles that will apply to entities and two entity laws. I'm going to try to point very specifically at some of the things I think they need to be amended to get this law to form the necessary form so that it can pass in the Assembly. First of all, in Articles 6.9; 6.10 and 6.12. where the Electoral Commission is discussed, it is necessary to define how the Election Commission decides. Is that a consensus or a majority? It's left open here, it needs to be defined. My suggestion is that it be a consensus. The function of the deputy members of the presidency is not under the BiH Constitution. From that point of view, we shouldn't even be considering it here. If we take that, if we accept it to go in, so we accept that we are changing the Constitution, then the question of its competence is raised, and it is particularly here in these members, it seems to me Article 8.3, completely vaguely defined about the replacement, is not 8.3. but 8.6. There's no reason, for example. that if a member of the BiH presidency resigns, it is automatically understood that his deputy also resigned. On the other hand, this way as it is proposed to re-choice the BiH predsjednitvo member and his deputy should also be changed, as this is where it is foreseen, for example. to vote for a member of the BiH presidency by the representatives of the people in the Representative Council whose member of the presidency has resigned and that member of the presidency who resigned, it is indeed unprincipled. The question arises who in the Assembly, if he is not a member of the Assembly, can vote, that member certainly should not remain here, that he may vote. I ask the question, why should 45 not be considered that for a member of the Bureau who had ceased his post as a member of the Bureau, whether he resigned, whether there were other more tragic circumstances why he was not a member of the Bureau, that the entity parliaments decided on it. Here's one of the possible suggestions. If it remains to be considered as a member of the Bureau's deputy member, it should not insist on being one of the MPs. My suggestion is that if we stick to those lists, someone on the parliamentary lists who is proposed not to scold the congregation. One of the essential issues is the preferential electoral system or part of the system that needs to be defined here as well as whether it can stay this way. First of all, whether we need it at all, on the one hand, and if proven, I would ask the promoter to explain to us what was going to happen with the preferential system, so if he convinces us that it is necessary, then this really needs to be simplified and reduced to a completely understandable measure, a measure that everyone can easily interpret and implement. I must say one of mine, one of my illogicalities for me, if our constitution says that the members of the BiH presidency are 1 Srbin, 1 Hrvat, 1 Bošnjak, then there is no logic that any of these three can choose a third nation, or people whom he is, I will use now, no matter how angry they are, in this case he represents that people. Therefore, it is logical for that people to choose him. As defined here, it can happen completely the other way around. The same is said, in the event that a BiH presidency member, over 12 months, falls short of one third of the session to take that position, it should certainly add "unjustified" here, means, if an unwarranted third can be accepted. Article 8.4. and Article 8.11. should be completely deleted because it is regulated by the Constitution and there is really no need to repeat it in the Election Law. For example. in Article 9.1, the following is written: "Every candidate for the post of president shall run together with the candidate for the post of vice president on the same list". Here is the position in this sentence, the position of vice president on a higher level than the position of president. Probably this sentence is the result of a bad translation from the original English text, and it has to be fixed anyway. This is chapter 11 defining how MPs are elected in the Council of Nations, paragraph 1 should be aligned with paragraph 2 with paragraph 1. Paragraph 1 states that delegates from the Croatian people are elected MPs in the Council of Peoples, and in the paragraph, the Bošnjak, too, their 5th, and paragraph 2 states that MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia vote in favour of the lists of Serbian candidates. The two should also be coordinated in this second part, MPs at the National Assembly of the RS, Serbian MPs to vote for Serb candidates' lists. I believe that 10 candidates on the list are many and the last paragraph within this Article 11.2. is really confusing. Here you do not know what this refers to, because it stands, the selection of delegates uses a formula of proportional representation according to Article 11.10 of this Act. I'd like someone to interpret what this even means to me. Maybe this applies to the formation of those lists, but not to the elections. The assembly votes on it, perhaps referring to the formation of a list. It's very, very vague and can lead to some interference. It's completely collapsing with the 1st and 2nd position of this same member. Article 11.14 states that the mandate of delegates in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is two years, and in Article 20.10, the transitional provisions stand, after the first two elections, and after four. I would really like to ask the Proposer to explain why, in general, Article 11.4., which is why the separation for the House of Peoples for two years, and the Representative Council and the PSBiH House 4, and then, once again, the second colitision in Article 20.10, he says, after the first two-year elections, and after 4. 46 I hope that today's debate is in fact a reference to the subject of the motion and that the next time the motionary comes out with all the answers to our questions and that then the amendments are defined, so I have imagined this debate today. About compensation mandates, e.g. in Articles 11.6, I will discuss this at all, if we accept it to survive, but I ask the legislators of this law for a detailed explanation of Article 11.11. I responsibly claim that Article 11.11. has been deliberately defined as being difficult to understand and that it can be interpreted in various ways. This is not the result of a bad translation. This is how it's left off. Here is the possibility of electoral engineering, but I remind you that elections will not be conducted by engineers, and they will not measure this, but lawyers who understand themselves even less in engineering work. I'll do you one analogy, one mathematical one, you won't mind me, but in five minutes, 80% of you by mathematical engineering, I'll convince you that two more is two more six, that two times three is five, and that two more is three six, and you won't notice that trap. This was made so legal that this game could be made. I would ask the promoter first to explain to us what was going on with the compensation mandates, what they mean, and then, to interpret 11.11. in a specific situation, that we are clear, if they stay at all, how they will be interpreted. In this context, I want to answer the question of what are the negative mandates and what are the negative mandate lists? I've never heard that notion before, and I haven't seen it from here that it can be interpreted in any way who will determine how many compensatory ms... if we accept them to be like that at all, whether it's 23% or 27%. Election units, if they are spoken of and can be spoken of by entities, but at the level of BiH's body, indeed, they have no excuse and I ask for that explanation. What is the reason for the BiH electoral units? We can talk about entities eventually and talk about, very briefly, the chairman, be patient.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3420	I don't know if they're patient.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3421	In the transitional and final provisions, here, I'm just finishing this first four members. What do the high representative's powers come from, and what do we need them for? Since it is as much as he wants to be boundless, will we MPs in the BiH Assembly to accept something like this where a man, whoever he is, has this kind of authority and I ask you to state in which decision, by which member of the Constitution, and even by which declaration after the Dayton Agreement can be given this kind of authority?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3422	Thank you very much. I thought, gentlemen, to give up, however, I must demonstrate to you that I can speak in five minutes and tell you another joke and all that I think. Ibro influenced me not to give up. Please, when Mr. Dokić says about election engineering, Gogos went to the Russian njegoš and told him "Sir, to talk to us, everything will be said in five minutes, first answer me what is 2 plus 2", this one sits down and thinks, says "severe question, can I think a little bit" and says "you know, the esteemed Emperor 2 more 2 is 4, but if you're behind it then it's 40". I don't know if you're okay... 47 I ask you, what I want to say is very short, because I will not repeat what others have said, and that is when the preamble will come, since Špirić said it is Mr. Ljubičić, there is no preamble today. Please, the fact is, this law has to get a constitutional basis and it has to happen. I think it's very important what I want to say, which is why I'm thinking about compensatory mandates, but if they stay, then I suggest that the right to a compensatory term has one who achieves at least the number of votes when the number of valid ballots is divided by the number of mandates, that we don't play a little games so that they can get into the compensatory mandates of everyone. I suggest it specifically, I think I'm clear. I suggest, if you already have to go into the preferential system, then something that's illogical, first I suggest whether it should be, whether it's complicated, and I think it is, but again, if it has to, then I suggest that it's out of logic that the preference one is worth the same thing as preference five, and in this law it's like that. So I suggest that each of the following preferences be reduced by 50%, or half, a quarter, a third, a fifth, and so on, because a two is worth 50% less than a unit, three is 30% of the unit, four is 25%, five is 20%, and so on. If we don't come back to electoral engineering, this makes election engineering impossible. Of course, I support the entity's electoral commissions, because then at all, if our entities can't have their own electoral commission, and therefore I suggest that they also establish its powers, the link between the entity's electoral commission and the BiH Election Commission. If that relationship were to be regulated in that direction when they were amended, I would suggest it specifically, but now I suggest it be done. The list of independent candidates, that should be deleted, what does that mean? If anyone joins an independent candidate, he's no longer independent. There is nothing to argue about. He's already some kind of independent political party, so let's say that's what they're called, but the joint independent candidates don't exist, they know what independence is. I can be independent, but two already aren't independent, they're addicted, he's up to me, and I'm up to him. That's the kind of thing you need to wipe out of these. As for the commission's decision-making, in the first round I agree with the consensus, in the second round of the two-thirds majority, so that there is no majorisation in the commission's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3423	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present some of the things concerning the electoral law, we have already heard them in the debate, but I will try to be brief and I want to give my reasons, because I am not satisfied with the reasons of the OSCE that stands at the point of view that this law allows all BiH citizens to exercise their electoral right. Election law is guaranteed by Agreement 3. Anexa of the Dayton Agreement, which refers to the elections and there is said to have been added to this annex by OSCE documents from Copenhagen, its paragraph 7 and 8 which guarantees universal, equal voting rights to all BiH citizens. Election law implies, both actively and passively, the right of every citizen to choose and be elected. Does this draft electoral law provide citizens with that right? Whether any BiH citizen can be chosen. A law like this doesn't provide that. My fellow Srbin from the Federation of BiH can never be elected as a member of the BiH presidency or people from Bošnjak and Hrvat in RS can never be elected as a member of the BiH presidency. I think calling only on the European Convention on Fundamental Freedoms and Human Rights is not a foothold to bring this law into line with the basic principles and standards of international law. They're already part of the Dayton Agreement. I do not accept the explanation of one of the working group members who told me that the general principles and standards of international law are above BiH law, but are not above 48 BiH Constitution. Please, this is not legally justified, because the Constitution is by its definition the highest law of a country, it is, however, a law and I cannot accept that OSCE documents from Copenhagen are under the Constitution of BiH and that the Constitution of BiH, because it does not guarantee a general, equal electoral right, has priority over the Copenhagen document and over all international rights and standards. I would also like to remind you that the general principle in the Dayton Agreement in Annex 3 is about the elections that all displaced persons vote in the 1991 place of residence, that is the general principle, all other exceptions. In the current law in Article 1.5, displaced persons, in addition to being able to vote in the place of residence of '91. years, they can also vote in the place of residence, so where they have been temporarily for the last six months. The residence is something that is temporary and as soon as the task force has provided the persons with a choice, then it is no longer a general principle, then there is no general principle, then it is the right of whoever votes to choose, of course, where we will vote and depart from Annex 3, which refers to the determination of this general principle. I think that this question was very relevant and that people barely fought and that principle passed as a general principle. But now it's no longer a general principle, now it's left at will for displaced persons to choose where to vote. I would refer to the presentation of Mr. Vita Rakić, who spoke about the Law on Local Self-Government in RS, which defines the choice of mayor and mayor of municipalities and said that if this election law is passed, he must comply with RS law. This election law should be on state level. He must not be opposed to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and I do not think those provisions that define the selection of municipal mayors, mayors, are contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Then, Mr Vito, you will have to comply with your law on local self-government in RS, as we in the Federation of BiH have passed a law on local self-government that is in line with that charter. Yes, but these provisions in the Electoral Law are not against the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Sir, basic principles can be established at state level. I'd like another fundamental question, it's a voter registration issue. Election law is one of the fundamental rights, it is acquired, depending on each state, birth and adulthood. With us, according to this law, the person who turned 18 has the right to vote, so he has the right to choose and be chosen. This is where the right is conditioned by registration. Registration should be a business of state authorities, not that each individual by his own procedure, so he must register in order to exercise his electoral right. This is contrary to basic some constitutional principles, as the right is a citizen as soon as he has completed certain years of life to have the right to exercise his electoral right, and it is in the state to provide him with the right to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3424	Now, Mr Spahić will show me how you can do less than five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3425	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that Mr. Banjac is also an excellent mathematician, but of course the laws, the Constitution and even the right, if followed by the logic of mathematics, would lead to one or. a world in which the very idea of organization of societies and states would be annulled. I look forward to, in any case, I know, too, that there exists in tradition, in Moscow in one poetic circle, also, one principle on which there are 2 and 2 five, and, of course, there is 49 and another explanation for this same fine revelation which is ahead and who is behind in addition and seizing and in preferential accounts under battle 1 and number 5. What is human rights and freedom is not obtained and, of course, is not obtained by some nature of things, at least today what modern civilization, art and culture know has one great feeling, poets, so this story two and two and five refers to the debate between poets, and not exactly, because njegoš is a poet, therefore, I think it's a nice message that we heard today. I want to express my satisfaction with that. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that there is simply one contagion that exists on these two proposals of the Electoral Law, one of Mr Draga, one of a group of MPs, that is, the SDP Parliament Club. An infection which, of course, has nothing to do with AIDS whose day we celebrate as the day of the fight for international, or the promotion of the fight against infection for which there is no cure, but it's not as dramatic as it is today if we repeat, for what time, the stories about that there are forces that are multiethnic by nature and there are forces that are by nature things ethnic. That's a lot of trouble. I once tried to explain to some colleagues that it is a very slippery ground, if you want to talk about civil society and at all civil rights and freedoms, because if you are making any kind of extermination of others by any other principle and, too, you are violating the fundamental human rights that it feels the way it feels, that it behaves politically, and, of course, there are electoral processes and decisions of periodical BiH citizens to decide on it. I would like to warn you, because I could speak, sometimes it was called the Ibro citizen, in the interpretation of my dear colleague, Mr Lagumdžija, almost a year ago, but whether Mr Tokić understands the relations between ethnic, ethnic and civil, that is the thing, of course, the principles on which each kind of discussion rests and in the BiH Parliament. What I would like to draw attention to to you who are constantly trying to convince us that there is only one recipe possible, as one concept, that allows for the promotion of human rights and freedom. I'd like to tell you that there's one fundamental right where all of this rests and that's every man's right to periodically decide who will represent him in any combination, in any choice, and in any way, that's one fundamental right, so society and state are being arranged. They are not arranged for any principles, concepts, laws, etc. to be imposed on them, but for those laws to apply equally to all people and for everyone to feel free enough in that law and to be able to implement it. That's why there are communities. There are communities for this reason, e.g. that there is no House of People in RS as there is in the Federation of BiH Parliament. It is impossible to talk constantly about Serbian candidates and Serbian election rights if this principle, which constantly affirms several of our MPs from different parts of the entity, does not respect the fundamental principle of this law, which is that in the same RS, as in the Federation of BiH, it is necessary to bring those constitutions into line with the BiH Constitution. The BiH Constitution says there is a two-home parliament here, that there is a full guarantee of citizens' rights to be elected in the general elections and that there is full equality of people in the House of Peoples of BiH. The Constitution of the Federation of BiH has some of these capacities, unfortunately, it is an unfinished process, because there is a representative home of the PSBiH and the House of Peoples in which Bošnjak and Hrvat are with a number of MPs, and everyone else is left. The problem, of course, is how to open the process of essential harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with what Mr Dokić has suggested that three laws be implemented from this one law, the BiH Law on Elections and two entity laws. If we were to accept that logic correctly according to 50 of what BiH is doing today in relation to the equality of citizens and peoples, we would also have to satisfy that principle in RS, have, too, besides the House of Representatives not one new assembly but the House of Representatives, the House of Peoples, of course, and we couldn't have been elected twice in RS by a double president, once in the BiH presidency, the second time by the president and vice president of the RS. It is a completely unnatural process because it does not allow the fundamental rights of people to be equally determined against what their interests are and to whom it will give the obligation to represent them. As in the Federation of BiH, it is likely that the two parties will long be the government of the two parties, because they nominate the two sides of the Federation of BiH presidents and vice presidents who become presidents of the Federation and the vice president of the Federation by some standard that has long been devised somewhere. These are fundamental principles, if we think the way we're thinking so far. What I want to warn you now, what I want to warn you, last time I was very precise in the explanation, first I read, and I ask you to have only so much patience, gentlemen of the OSCE, three members of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 21 that he stated, one I'll just read, and that's Article 2. Everyone has the same right to access public services in their country, everyone has the right to participate in the management of their country directly or through free elected representatives and on the basis of equal voting rights, it seems very good to me in the comment of the Electoral Law from the OSCE gentlemen, I draw attention to reading part 6 that speaks of the protection of electoral law. It says it would respect the fundamental right of a person to choose and be elected, i.e. the electoral right based on this law, that right must also be exercised, and in the context of the elections, it is said only, if it was killed on the spot of the vote, then that right in some way is annulled, it seems a temporary annulment. Why am I drawing attention to this? Explanations and comments, as well as many comments in tradition, because in ancient times they're much better than original texts, you know when. Therefore, in Chapter 1 of Article 1.3, the selection of members of all authorities shall be based on general and equal voting rights by direct secret voting. I'm paying attention to this member. It happens here that we, in fact, in BiH today have full discrimination as the basic principle is practically annulled. It's that a man can be chosen, that a man can choose and do not have it in this law. That's why I talked about it last time. I would now like to draw attention to this fact only, in the end, I would like to suggest that we, as a BiH Parliament, approach the debate on this law and on these laws, both of these laws on the basis of one principle proposed by a group of MPs in connection with the harmonisation of the Constitution with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms with the corresponding protocols. If you have looked at the paper we received today, today we have received paper that says when BiH is admitted to the Council of Europe, BiH is required within a year to accept and sign this Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. If this were to be done we could not do what is completely justified, which is to respect the first member of the BiH Constitution that says that, as a full member of the UN, we must fully respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Freedoms. Since she's broken, this constitution, in my opinion, has one fundamental flaw. He raises the problem of how every BiH citizen, regardless of Rom, Jevrej, Hrvat, Bošnjak or Srbin, an Austrijanac in BiH, should ensure his right to be chosen without any discrimination. If the act rests on discrimination against one man, then discrimination is discrimination against one nation and every group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3426	The word has been made by the Vice-President of Skopljak. 51
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3427	Ladies and gentlemen, our dear guests, I will really fit in with my friend and colleague Spahić in ten minutes of debate. Here from this pay phone I swore to you, a little bit, so as far as I know, each and every one of you individually, in the Constitution of BiH. At the time, I never thought that we would discuss a possible discussion of its purpose, that is, any changes to some of the provisions of the Constitution. Since I am not a lawyer, I have heard from you and encouraged me, from many of you that I know you are right much more skilled than I am that the Constitution is indeed the supreme legal act of a state and I am so experiencing it, and so I believe it is, but at one of the round tables that was organised right here in Sarajevo on the draft of the electoral law, there was more talk of a possible change and addition of the Constitution than about the possible adjudication of this draft electoral law in the Constitution. What really intrigued me, and what I would really like to hear about here is the people who are experts, the lawyers were present at this particular round table, though they say it's a round table. The round table even found people and a group of citizens, they said, who were willing to initiate the procedure for amending the constitution so that it would comply with this draft electoral law. We are here from one European or world authority of Mr. Moris, if I remember the name correctly, heard in this Chamber that no draft electoral law is in collegiate with the Constitution. That's what we're here, as I recall, heard. Now I'm interested in whether it's really possible and, then, since we all had to do a little bit of right, at least in Roman, as I had to, so then as a young student, I heard the sum of her and sum and jerry, then I really thought I didn't know anything, and I would now sum it up her and sum up and jerry, believing absolutely that we all know how to translate the language, or, let's just say we can't translate the language, then I tried to translate it into the fact that one man is one voice, actually legalizing all the lawlessnesss we want to carry out, if we want to spend. Here, really, I'm not incriminating anyone. In this context, I'd just like you to watch this, if there's any preference, I'm looking at the language here, I'm not looking legally and I can't imagine what that list of preferences would be. In my own word, preferrence, I listen if I prefer someone, then I must neglect someone. I'm asking you, doesn't it mean the preference immediately to abandon someone else? I ask you, doesn't that mean maybe, doesn't it give someone a chance, even if they're about to choose a representative for another small nation, and that he, whether or not he wanted to do it? That would be disastrous. I really have to tell you here that then maybe it would repeat what we had, unfortunately, so that the one who's stronger, who has more votes, simply put what the other doesn't, and that would be the accident and the one who makes it as much as the one who makes it natural. I can really go into that dialectic if you want, but I am telling you that I am standing on the basis of the Constitution, while he is who he is and as such I will support him and as such I will act as such in the people that he is the supreme legal act of a state and of a society. If that's where I'm wrong, I'd like the real experts to tell me from here the right words and the right solutions. In this context, just to conclude, to round up, there will be no happiness from any electoral law or election law proposal, call it whatever you want, which will legalize the possibility of manipulation of any of our people. For, please do not claim to me that every individual's right can be exercised and that the right of a nation can be ignored. 52
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3428	Mr. Chairman, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed fellow MPs, MPs, I do not want to repeat what Mr. Tokić said as SDP's position, because he was very clear and precise on the matter of this law, I just want to do so for the discussion of some who were led here today and for some comments which, in an indirect or direct way, referred to what it is and is a party from which I come, especially not because of that, but that it would not remain unrecorded and unmarked, I would like to say a few words about the letter that we received from Mr. Beri, which was addressed to the members of the Parliamentary House of BiH, or to the delegates of the House of People, and in which we are given answers to questions that we have on the agenda today, it is a paper entitled "Respons to a discussion which was held by the House of Representatives of Parliament and the House of Parliament of BiH and on November 11th year. That is what I want to say because I would not want what is said here and offered to Parliament in response to being left unmarked in the stenogram and in the ways in which the records of what is said in this house and what is being said through it are kept. I will be really careful in my actions, not because I have a fence for someone who represents an international community, but because this letter says nicely that because of the time limit of lecturing these answers in all three languages is not finished. The lecture will be distributed immediately after the finalisation, and in the meantime, in the midst of the importance and urgency of your continued consideration of the draft electoral law, we deliver an unlectured translation. I'm starting from the assumption that this is an unlectured translation so all I'm saying is, in the twilight zone, I'm not going to comment, but those things that are more than visible that are unacceptable I'm bound to say. Due to the limitations of the business, I will not comment on each of the 32 responses that have been given, I will take if I see that the discussion is going on during the second period, and I will provide a written and reply both by myself and specifically elaborated by the party from which I come to answer each of these questions. For the purposes of today's debate, I'll say about 10, when I get to 9, I'll stop. Here is the first question that has been asked, it has been asked and said whether the provisions of the draft election law on the election of members of the BiH presidency oppose the European Convention on Human Rights. The answer here is to some 15 lines in which, when you read it, the diplomatic dictionary is responsible, yes, the answer is yes, but the answer in the diplomatic dictionary, but it doesn't matter, so it's like we're on a quiz. The answer to the first question whether the provisions of the draft election draft are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, the answer is yes, but it does not matter, and then it is said that our constitution is different. We didn't ask you, gentlemen, what the Constitution says but what it says in the Convention on Human Rights, European, and you answered us in response, I want it to be determined, that the OSCE's answer is in the letter that we're told, yes, but it doesn't matter. The second question came out. Does the draft electoral law violate entity and cantonal constitutions? When you read these three bureaucratically translated lines, you will also be able to get an answer like the previous question and it reads, yes, but it doesn't matter. So the draft election law violates some cantonal and entity constitutions, but that doesn't matter. Read it, you'll see it says here. I'll skip a little bit, I'll go, say, to point nine. Does everyone have the same right to be elected? Here you have 2,4,6,8,10,12,13 unfortunate 13-row number. In these 13 rows, it says not all rights. The answer's gone. Read it and you'll see that it actually says there isn't. Point 11. Maybe one of the most interesting points. I insist on the OSCE to give us an answer to point 11, I do not insist on any other question, 53 I just insist that they give us an answer to point 11. Point 11 reads, "Is the draft electoral law a threat to minorities?" The OSCE's answer is "no, on the contrary". The draft electoral law guarantees greater protection and representation that their number would otherwise impose. Gentlemen of the OSCE, tell us who the minority is in this country? Tell us who is the minority here and how did you identify the minority and how do you want to protect it? How? Where? What territory? In what way? What election law? What are you guys talking about here, gentlemen, that suits us? The answer to this question is real from people in BiH minorities, which is against the constitution, it is contrary to conventions and it is contrary to the common sense that exists in this parliament, even when we disagree. So that I would not be longer on this subject, because this response would require discrimination from the people who write this to this Parliament. The answer to this question would ask that we no longer speak this way. To question 12. Does the draft electoral law change the BiH Constitution? The answer doesn't change, but it doesn't match, but it threatens him. The answer is no, but it doesn't match him. All right, let's skip a little bit. 16. Why does the draft electoral law require proportionate elections for the executive bodies of municipalities, is that democratic? We first heard here it was democratic. I don't know why it's said this way, because, to link you to question 29, which is similar to this issue where it says, "This draft electoral law will introduce the opposition into municipal and cantonal executive bodies which is undemocratic," and then we were told that, in fact, that the desire of the OSCE is hidden behind this to help multiethnicity of cantonal and municipal organs. Gentlemen, this is not how you do it. In this way some executive bodies are known, formed in the world. As far as I know, if it's just in North Korea, Iraq, Cuba, I don't know, but it sure is. Is voting too complicated, 17th question? The answer is, imagine, "The trial elections have shown that voters understand and vote." Is that an answer to the question of whether it's complicated? What you're saying is that people aren't stupid, so if they knew how to go through it, they understood, so thank God they understood. People have understood things harder these ten years, but it's still not an answer to the question of whether voting is complicated. Let's skip a little bit. 27. Is this bill contrary to the principles of local self-government? We're being offered multiethnicity again, that's why. Look at the third and fourth rows of the first paragraphs. The municipal governments will be multiethnic like this, now you, as it is, will force, as in Srebrenica, to have multiethnic authority, by fine SDS and CD Coalition, and I don't know who else there from Serbian parties, will have multiethnic authority. If that's guaranteed by this law, God help the people of Srebrenica who live and who want to go back there first. So I don't keep commenting. We have a lot of objections that I don't want to talk about because then I'm going into a debate that I want to stop. We don't think this law should promote concentration governments in cantons and municipalities by thus preserving multiethnicity. We do not consider it necessary to reduce election units in BiH, i.e. temporary rules. We don't think open lists, the way they're made here, improve multiethnicity. We do not think that the president and vice president of the Federation of BiH should be chosen differently than the president and vice president of the RS, etc. Since it is said here that we are going back to something we had, possibly, a colleague of Skopljak has rightly indicated that we can return to something we had. Let me remind you of the '90s. What we had. Then we had that fine national parties voted each other representatives. We don't think it's some lucky solution to repeat the '90s. We do not think that it is a happy solution for Bosniaks to vote for Mrs Plavšić or that for Srbin there is a big solution either to what they voted for Mr. Fikret Abdić and Mr. Alija Izetbegović, we do not think it is a very good 54 solution and we are not trying to return it, on the contrary. We are also not trying to improve the Law by which the boy, as Mr. Skopje kid said, where I never use that expression, possibly mathematically small, only mathematically small, the people can be outvoted and imposed on him by a mathematically larger people. We don't think that's how it's supposed to be. We believe, too, that in BiH, in the community as it is, only a representative of the people of whom he should only care about what his people think about him, and that he cares what others think, and especially that he cares whether that other people should exist or not. We therefore feel that it is necessary to resolve this differently, to resolve the way in which everyone will have the support of his people to the extent that they need it, but also to support and to care for the support of other peoples. What are those mechanisms? We can talk about it, but we can accept it as a principle. As we are told here, from this pay phone, one MP here has been told that the multiethnicity offered by the SDP is suffocating BiH. What I'm saying is that BiH has been suffocating the multiethnicity that was imposed in the '90s over the past 10 years. In those elections, if we are already talking about it, it was very moving for me to listen to a Member of Parliament whose coalition partner was banned by the international community to praise the international community so warmly here. Perhaps the international community could wonder if they would push this bill on a random sample, when they chose 22 people, and took the 22 people who banned the day before yesterday, I don't know if they would be happy if they supported this election law. Mr. Banjac, don't worry, I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3429	It's been three or four minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3430	I thank you. I said I'd replicate it, now I've entered the replica area, you want me to sit down and come back, can I finish this?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3431	You can sit down, but the question is, will you come back?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3432	I believe if you were wondering, I wouldn't come back. Lucky you don't wonder too much, you'll be less and less wondering. I would also ask you to establish here and that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when making a statement on the proposal for this law, I want to make it clear that for the SDP this bill cannot be either the basis for making, nor the basis...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3433	Thank you very much. It's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3434	That is why I am asking you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to declare each other individually in the vote, we have the right to ask for the Rules of Procedure, because we believe that this, accepting this as a basis, accepts the basis for discussing the 55th division of BiH and stopping people from returning home. So I draw attention to the political attitude of accepting this as accepting the basics of going where you are now or in some other countries, rather than going home. Because the other night, a senior official of the ruling party, the most numerous parties in BiH, by the number of votes, literally, on the public media electronic here, said this law is good for my party, because it retains its positions now, but is bad for BiH. And I want everyone here to know what they're voting for, in fact, on a good basis for keeping this here or for a good basis for something else.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3435	Replica, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3436	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the assembly speaker should at least serve to inform the public truthfully. I regret and must be honest that I am not pleased because the High Representative has the opportunity to ban, change, point and take, but I would beg Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, as the man who pleads to lead and the ruling option, to say what is the coalition option that is with me in the coalition. If it turns out Mr. Lagumdžija is right, I will publicly apologize here. But if it turns out that Mr. Lagumdžija is using a pay phone to deceive the public of BiH, then I demand that the barren stories Zlatko offers here, my dear friend, MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, speak falsely from Parliament's pay phone BiH is an ugly thing for MPs. I beg you, which coalition partner, please, Zlatko, not Sejfudin Tokić, who misinformed you. Sejfudin Tokić will cost the SDP party's policy, I ask you, is my coalition partner prohibited and which, the Democratic Party for Banja Luka and Krajina is the opposition party in Parliament and the local parliament of RS and here, which is my coalition partner I want to know, I really don't know. I'm asking Mr. Zlatko to answer me. It's very important this pay phone. The nervousness of Sejfudin Tokić and the story of multiethnicity which he spread has led many into confusion, I do not resent Mr. Zlatko for being his spokeswoman Seifudin whose story will order less results of multiethnicity than in the party SDA, CD Coalition and in other options. But that's your fault, gentlemen. Among other things, and the lies you bring out are very important.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3437	Ambassador, these were the remarks on the draft. This was a replica. Name it the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3438	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have been really startled by the events of the last 2-3 minutes. First, my hand was raised as a replica of Mr Ibrahim Spahić's discussion, related to mentioning the name and relationship of the national and civil and individual and collective, not to Mr Špirić's discussion. At the same time, I would like to say very clearly that when we talked about banned parties and coalition partners, we did not mention Mr Špirić or his party, but impressively how much Mr Špirić recognized himself in this, and it remains for public analysis why he felt called, because no one mentioned Mr Špirić, either by name or last name. 56
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3439	Who were you thinking of?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3440	No name or last name. You should generally allow the MP to express his replica without interruption. This is about two replicas. Afterwards, Mr. Špirić mentioned some multiethnicity. The SDP insists on a proper balance of national, collective and individual, and there is a formula for BiH. There's a solution. The solution is to reach an Electoral Law that will allow individuals to choose political projects in which the equality of all three constituent peoples will not be violated. When we talk about equality, today we are here officially in different discussions, different MPs, let them be recognized as what Špirić also recognized, very clearly showed that today there is no equality of three Bosnian-Herzegovina peoples. It's very clear, it's decadent here that it's quite argumentative. This lack of equality, the lost equality of the three Bosnian Herzegovina nations lost at the age of 90 is trying to remain as status quo. We are vigorous against this and the clarification once again, not the idea of providing one man with one vote, these are the concepts of politicians who have always been prepared, allegedly, a citizens' referendum, when it comes to the area in which he has the majority and the people's referendum when it's not in the majority. They're environmental leaders. Everyone had, of these three leaders from our environment, such concepts and such referendums, but I would point to the end. I would ask all MPs, regardless of which option they belong that this is not a battle for the Federation of BiH, for Bosniaks, this is primarily a battle for Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak, but those who want to change the thing that wants to return to Drvar, Mr Špirić, to be equal there, who wants to go to Bugojno, you are against it. You have acted continuously against it and the greatest satisfaction to us is that you have commended the OSCE most loudly today. Let the OSCE be proud of that praise. The OSCE has explained to us about committees on the issue of promoting multiethnicity. We, as a multiethnic party, say, no, thank you. Mr. Špirić says you did well. The international community, thank you for what you've done. Just remember, that path will not go as some politicians within the country and within the international community imagined, to retain the status quo and to talk about alleged progress and process. The people die from that progress and process. Get out on the street and check out these processes and the progress we have reportedly made in the Dayton Peace Agreement, which Špirić has been very often praising lately, because we have made a lot of progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3441	Let me tell you something. Just take it easy. First of all, I beg you, the replicas last for two minutes, and some have stopped the clock. Come on, don't bring me in. The Kolegijum has already had several interventions to take away the word, we want to bring ourselves here, these are pre-election political speeches. Leave it, hang out there in the hallway and talk, no problem, don't be here, talk about the agenda point called the draft election laws in particular. Whoever goes the other way will be interrupted. Here you go. We're really gonna break up. It can't be done anymore. 57
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3442	Ladies and gentlemen, I have never debated over time that has been determined for neither discussion nor replication. Namely, what do I mean? I mean, I didn't get an answer, which will say that there's been an untruth from this pay phone, but, well, that's a democratic option that can slip away. It's another thing. I was present when Mr. Tokić, as SDP, convinced my drvarčan that they were best on their hearth, but the Trnić family, Mr. Tokić, was burned in the Drvar, and I didn't hear that you were here at the highest leadership in the Federation of BiH asked to determine the responsibility of who burned the family. What does that fight mean for that multiethnicity that we're going to bring people back to, and it's getting less and less... The democratic option that I belong to is really for the desired level of multiethnicity that citizens want, but not multiethnicity in which you will deliver people where it will happen to them, Mr. Tokić, in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3443	Please, Mr. Lagumdžija has asked for an individual statement so that we here who would vote and support this bill actually appear as some who want to divide Bosnia. I think the draft of this election law, who knows political systems and electoral systems, as one of the main pillars of political systems, is one of the most democratic electoral systems, is the system of proportional representation of mixed members. However, we are trying here, most of these provisions are in line with the democratic principles of the modern world, but here in our discussion we wanted to convince the working group that some things deviate from these democratic principles. Most of the provisions are such, but some of the provisions such as restricting passive voting rights, which I have witnessed, the deviation from Annex 3 on elections are things that are not in favour and we have sought to make the working group understand this and to adapt this electoral law to the basic democratic principles, to ensure that this law is tailored to democratic Bosnia and to help us achieve the more democratic next elections.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3444	Thank you. ...he waits longer, he forgets what he says. He waited a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3445	Mr. Chairman, you said at the beginning of the discussion, at least when it comes to discussions on this draft, there is no replica. Honestly, I had an intention, but, well, to answer my word, come up right after my colleague Adnan's discussion, who initially said one thing that I would totally agree with, which is that all of this seems a little bit unserious. It really is one job that we have to finish in a very short period of time, and I have a feeling that we're on our way that it won't be enough for us for another year. We'll even welcome the election in the 10th month, on the first Saturday, if I'm not mistaken, without election law if we keep this up. 58 Namely, what I was going to say. First of all, I would like to ask, when we make observations about this law, first of all I would like to ask certain colleagues, first of all I mean the previous debater, along with other colleagues, who point to inequality, namely the threat of active and passive voting rights. I would pray when it is spoken of – for it is not enough just to say the word. Then I would ask these colleagues to say what they specifically mean? If they're referring to certain provisions in the draft of this law, then let them say which member it is. And not enough just to say -- we have here in this draft, I don't know, some provisions that are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. This is what I purposely underline for the simple reason that I know what it's all about, but I want it to be publicly said here, so that we can literally say what it is. We must not ignore the fact that BiH is a Dayton formation and that it consists of two equal entities. And I categorically argue that both the active and passive right to vote, regardless of what I have terrible remarks on this draft, in every entity, no citizen in any entity is at risk – neither his active nor passive right to vote. Thank you. Thank you. I think Zlatko is now a Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3447	speaks from the site Can any Federation Srbin be elected member of the presidency? Is that passive voting law?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3448	Maybe he can. He has to change his name. (polemics in Deretić – Cholo)
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3449	Please, that's exactly why I wanted you to say what you were alluding to. Please, Mr. Chairman, just one minute. So, I think, however, that certain circles and representatives of certain and political parties and MPs are absolutely ignoring one notor fact, which is that, however, BiH, as one MP said, seems to me from the SDP, that BiH is really not a common state. I'm not going to say a term that was used, and I think an abnormal state has been mentioned. I'm not saying that. It's not the usual state of law. It has been created and insisted in a specific way as an unusual legal entity in the international community. Given this fact and what led to it being such, therefore, in this context are the Dayton Agreement in the Constitution of BiH, which applies exactly in the way of choosing, therefore, to the active and passive right of vote, of individual representatives – there are certain specificities that do not conflict with the provision of the European Convention on Human Rights. Therefore, it must not be ignored that it is two entities and that the Constitution of BiH and the Dayton Agreement regulates the way in which the choice of active and passive voting rights in each entity is defined. And if that were the case, it was in mind, first of all, how the Federation of BiH was established, and in what way was the Republika Srpska. The Federation of BiH is two-home, for which reasons it is known, and Republika Srpska's single-home, is also known for what reasons. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3450	Please, as a college, we can only allow objections to the law, otherwise, we cannot allow anything else. That's the attitude of a unanimous college. It's just about the law. Well, because he's not talking about anything else. [[Spahic from the place: And by which provision you suspend someone to speak]] We'll do that later...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3451	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I have, indeed, listened quite often to the lies that Špirić made, but this is a rough one for me, indeed, painful untruth. I have responded to the sufferings of all citizens and all crimes, Mr Špirić, which was made in the ambience of your first party SDS, so the other party radicals, then the parties of the coalition, which today will come true when you vote with HDZ and probably also with the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3452	Mr. MP, these are offensive words and I don't allow you to...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3453	They're not offensive words. In that environment was killed and prevented from returning not only Srbin to the Drvar, but also Bošnjak to Srebrenica. And as for the Dravar, sir, you're from the woodwork, see what people from the woodwork think of you. [[Spiric – from the place: Check out what they think of you, I know what they think of me]]
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3454	Please, both of you, you can continue there somewhere, come on, come on, who's still talking. Mr. Spahić has a replica, so Mr. Lagumdžija. All right, MP Lagumdžija has a word. He gave up. Thank you very much. Then Dokić, then Rađević.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3455	I'd ask the chairman to intervene every time we step away from the agenda. Today is not a principle debate on the Electoral Law. The main debate was last time. Today is a debate in detail, as it is called. I would ask some of the speakers not to give fire political speeches as they have been held so far on November 29th and July 27th. These are other times. We expected concrete remarks on one law, we will likely come to another to discuss concrete remarks on another law. I went out for another thing. I ask the chairman, is it sufficient, on the basis of that discussion and the minutes, that the instructions for the reasons and explanations mentioned to the legislator, or is it necessary for me to write it in writing and deliver it, expecting, of course, that by the next debate on the Electoral Law, I will have answers to these questions and explanations, which will not be a game of words but complex words, so that the average MP as I am available to understand them. 60
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3456	Thank you very much, MP. According to the bill of adoption of the electoral law, we will continue at exactly the exact pace as envisaged in the plan. And the plan I said at the beginning of this session. Ambassador Mrs. Rađević. To take advantage of the opportunity while the MP goes – this means that by 6 a debate will be summed up, that the Constitutional Commission will submit a report at the next session, of course, with consultations with the motionary.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3457	Fellow MPs, I have no replica but a discussion. I apologize for going out and talking about the details of the permanent electoral bill. Since the debate is coming to an end, I felt the need to say this. A number of MPs here, saying in particular, in various ways, have actually proposed to the legislator a whole new concept of access to this law, and a small number of MPs have reported that they are proposing to support this way of access to a permanent Electoral Law. That's why I came out to say that this first number of MPs seeking a new approach to making a permanent electoral law would explain it to human rights. And puts them above the BiH Constitution. Please, I would like to say to the promoter, at the end of this debate, that there are also so many MPs, and perhaps more, who defend this approach to making a permanent electoral law, which does not mean that we agree with all the details – we have already spoken. Just because human rights are a relative thing, if you're going to get me right. I'm for human rights. However, they have the human rights of an individual, the first human people. Well, let me say this. The basic right of a human being, here, let's say, a woman, that no one causes her physical pain. And, I'm sorry, whenever we gave birth to our child, we felt physical pain. So that human creature that was born has already compromised my human rights. Still, it happens, and no one will ever vote against it. Therefore, human rights cannot be applied here to the Constitution and something that would completely change the organisation and concept of the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina. Well, please, what you're proposing would mean – to you it's funny because you don't even hold on to what I'm talking about. You're used to the international community always fulfilling your wishes. It just happened once that he didn't. And now, here, look what's going on. And let me finish the discussion, don't act like that from the scene because that's not how I react when you talk, I listen to you very carefully. Therefore, there is no reason to appreciate that the approach to making a permanent electoral law is based on changing the organisation of the Dayton BiH. What you're proposing, at least as I understand it, assuming that if such a law were made, would lead to tomorrow's situation if we had, say, three Bošnjak as three members of the BiH presidency. And then logically it would come to that so that three men would be one. And then on, you'll be entities, etc., etc. Well, there are a number of people and MPs who disagree with that concept. I went out to tell the legislators of this bill that they wouldn't accidentally be tempted to accept this concept of access to a permanent electoral law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3458	Thank you very much. Spahić, incorrect quote. 61
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3459	I'm very sorry to have to react. I was also a quitter because I saw colleagues from the SDP also give up and create an atmosphere so that at least tonight we don't make complications. I liked that very much. When I like something, then I can support it, no matter what political options it comes from. But when I heard now that human rights by their nature things are relative, I'm just a man who I have to say that I'm consterned. Because I didn't expect to hear from anyone who was elected to the BiH Parliament to say that human rights are relative. Maybe I'd push it along with your explanation of what you thought was relative, but the explanation you gave afterwards is contrary to fundamental human rights, Madam MP, and that's the human right to life. And the fact that you, and how you explained the right to life and how much you relativized it, hurt me in one basic provision, and she says, everyone can suffer in any relationship with other people of various relationships. But if you question the right to be born as a pain and if you talk about it that way, I can't shut it down as an MP. Perhaps, ma'am, (there have been no words since the chairman intervened) I must say, here it is better that we talked about details, about the rights of those layers of people who are marginalized. Here one MP asked the question of who the minorities are. Well, that's terrible when in the country of BiH, in which the questions of MPs are being answered (President: Sir, two minutes have expired, please direct your attention...). So my attention is to it, don't let this discussion, this political discussion, bring down basic and real human rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3460	Now, that's good. Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Cora, representative of Mr. Beri's office, wishes to speak at the end of the debate on this bill. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3461	Mr. President, I'll be very brief. If anyone has an objection, they may point out. I won't talk about every point that's been mentioned here because it would take too much time. I also don't think that we could see our role in Parliament's controversy. But I would also like to say two or three things from the point of view of the international community. So, the proposal of the task force, the proposal to the High Representative, is, in fact, according to the Constitution. Also, the provision that has been passed here on human rights and freedoms is a general provision. Constitutional law experts would say that this does not apply to the Constitution itself. The electoral law proposed here is, in fact, in line with all the electoral bodies, the bodies to be chosen. Restrictions in the choice itself mean coming from the Constitution itself. It was, therefore, such a mandate as was set in the Madrid Declaration. So, the Constitution has provisions that the Constitution can change. So it's in the authority of this body here and also home to the people to do it. The working group also said such amendments would not have a chance at parliament. That doesn't mean, of course, that the task force or anyone who thinks the provisions of the Constitution are perfect. And members of Parliament who would like to amend the provisions should propose it. We also have a level of centralised in law. There is also the opinion of High Representative and Council of 62 Europe that such a law should regulate the elections. This is common in all countries, and such a regulation should be common. Also, I want to make two or three comments on some interventions. And also, so some of the explanations you asked for will be found in the comments of the law itself. It's also about compensatory mandates. But we will also be more than happy to offer explanations about these provisions. Compensation mandates are those involved in having proportionate legality. Let's make it a combination in the local parliaments together. There are some complicated members of the law. One is also, therefore, choosing the House of Peoples in the Federation of BiH. So there goes the proportional principle of ethnic composition. The way I think multiethnicity will be promoted. These members are complicated because they need to cover all kinds of situations. And we hope that we can continue the dialogue we started and we are very happy about it. We would also like to have a constructive dialogue on amendments. And I hope that such a kind of dialogue will, in fact, end with this house being adopted here, along with the House of Peoples, by the Election Law of BiH. We will be very happy and pleased to answer all the questions that have been asked here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3462	Thank you, Mr. Cora. I hereby conclude a part of the debate concerning part of the debate of the motionary Drago Ljubičić and I am opening a debate on the draft electoral law of the SDP MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3463	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the honored guests, last time I explained the reasons and motives of proposing the Social Democratic Party of BiH's election law. Today, allow me to say a few more words, given the advanced time of this House's session. To begin with, I would quote the chairman of our home, Mr Banjac, who said about this speaker – we representatives of citizens and peoples. And this is the basis for making our law, because the national identity of every man in BiH, the identity of a man, the identity of a citizen, the citizen of BiH, are the basic provisions of the proposal for our law. I would remind you that the Social Democratic Party, not only the Members' Club in this House, has, with all seriousness, joined the draft of the Electoral Law. It's about the permanent election law, not the passing episode, not the interim law. Because every electoral system is the most important political institution in every democratic country. He determines the political fate of political democracy in every country. And that is why we have launched an initiative to comply with the legislation, that is, the Constitution of BiH with the European Convention on Human Rights. That's what this Parliament is required to do. Every time we get that from the Council of Europe, we get their reports. We received such a message today from yesterday's Peace Agreement Implementation Council in Brussels, where Mr. Petrič attends, where he insists on European standards here. And that's the message we received yesterday from the Conference on Human Rights at Brdo near Kranj, chaired by Mr Kombah, who is implementing the Southeastern Europe Pact. And therefore, after ten years of democratic change in BiH, and after four years of signing the Dayton Peace Agreement, we think it is time to institutionalise a permanent electoral system and adopt a permanent electoral law. 63 We think it would be best if parliamentary political parties reached a political consensus on the fundamental principles of the Electoral Law, which is proposed as a permanent and not a provisional law. Election law, generally and equally, has all citizens of BiH at the age of 18. And that includes citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not have a residence in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Equality of all peoples across BiH's territory and political representation of national minorities - therefore, ensure minority rights. The Bosnian-Herzegovic specificities are contained in the Proposal for our Law, and the characteristics that must be taken into account in the creation of the Election Law. They include clear ethnic entities and provisions of the Dayton Agreement. We're not in favour of changing the Dayton Agreement, we're not proposing to change the Constitution. But we should not respect the consequences of violence, ethnic cleansing, persecution and the displaced BiH population representing 50% of its population. For multiethnic BiH, the electoral system must ensure ethnic national security and full equality of every nation to prevent the domination, majorisation of each species; to give support to reconciliation by supporting political actors from other peoples, not only their own. You can't be the head of one state and you can't answer to just one ethnic group for your work. This applies to the BiH Council of Ministers, this applies to Parliament. Only in this way can the functioning of an effective and stable government be possible in the way we propose. On the contrary, any subsequent elections will be an ethnic census. All seats are reserved for members of the majority ethnic communities, Bosniaks, Srbin, Hrvat. What about the others listed in 1991 is 8% in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who are representatives under the proposed election law of Jews, Rom, Čeh, Slovak, Rus, Italijan, Nijemac, so up to thirty and something as many as lived in just one bh. A little town called Prnjavor. (President: I ask you to stick to the time) Electoral members of the government must have support, but also responsibility to all citizens and all peoples. I mean joint institutions at the level of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, above all. So, in front of the entire voting body, not just in front of his ethnic group. Disabling at all costs, we propose, electoral ethnic engineering at the expense of any people in BiH. Consistent with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which, as you know, under the Dayton Agreement, has priority over other laws. Otherwise, we will have the institutionalisation of ethnic divisions and discrimination and the failure of equal active and passive voting rights. And finally, just paraphrasing the Crisis Group report saying: Without creating a healthy political framework, the desired effects in BiH will not be achieved, and the international community will remain forever in BiH, maintain an unsustainable system and care for refugees abroad. In the Electoral Law we propose, we have clearly given our view of the election of members of the BiH Presidency, the House of Peoples in alternatives. We gave all the details of the choice from cantons, entities, to joint institutions -- starting with the basic axiom that BiH is a state with two equal entities, a multiethnic, and three equal nations. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3464	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? Mr. Čaršimanović. 64
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3465	Dear colleagues, I deliberately waited for point b), and I could discuss it under point (a). Namely, I will remind you of my question at the beginning of this session on the agenda, what does this mean to discuss details? We have two proposals today, two equal proposals, and today for the first time as MPs, we are able to talk about the draft laws concerning each individual citizen of BiH, each citizen with the right to choose. That's why I think the discussion separately by point (a) and point (b) is almost impossible. If we want to come up with one draft or proposal of a single law, we would have to compromise between two proposals, if we want to consider them equal. This means that in areas where we should compromise how it is regulated in certain legal drafts, areas of electoral law or electoral solutions. I'd just like to stimulate the way that the commission you said would prepare for next time should work. So my proposal is to combine solutions from one law and another and to solve... In fact, I will remind you that in the law proposed by the SDP MPs' Club there are solutions that, in my opinion, are better than in Drag Ljubičić's law. If I understand correctly, perhaps not precisely enough, that the voter list is based on birth, that is, on the basis of BiH citizenship, that the citizen is not obliged to apply to the voter's list, but to be registered by the parent books, and he only has the right to verify whether it is registered or not. Furthermore, the right to choose I think it is about residence, about residence from 1991, not about residence, as proposed by Drago Ljubičić's Law. In addition, I believe that the solution given in the SDP proposal, when it comes to voting for the BiH presidency, is much better than the solution given in Drago Ljubičić's proposal, because it implies that each citizen can choose his representative for the entire term of office in the BiH presidency. Otherwise, in Drago Ljubičić's proposal, each citizen, or two-thirds of the citizens, only votes for one-third of their representative. Because one-third of the mandate is chosen by the man elected by two-thirds of the electoral body. However, I believe that the advantages of Drago Ljubičić's proposal to the SDP proposal exist in the same way, especially in the civil approach. The SDP says the basis is a civil approach. However, with its decision to collect signatures for the political party, the civil rights solution reduces that by 30%. Because the right of equality is reflected in the right of association between citizens and the right to choose. If two times 15% must be of the order of another people, it is already 30%, twice 15% constraint of civil law. That's why I think the better solution to the Drago Ljubičić bill is. Besides, here, I don't even know how it came, there's a proposal in the SDP proposal to directly elect public prosecutors. As far as I know it is a professional executive function and nowhere in the world is a professional executive function done by direct selection, but by some special means of choosing so that their professional characteristics can be taken. And so on, and so on. No election observers are regulated which are necessary during this transitional period. As a result, I do not think that the proposal made by Lagumdžija's MP is feasible today to reject Drago Ljubičić's proposal as unfounded, that it cannot be the basis for discussion, and in particular to vote individually, so that the only basis for the SDP proposal is then the pressure method. 65 To conclude, my proposal is that the Commission, which makes the proposal, that is, the final text of the draft, does a partnership between these two laws, asks for good solutions and to continue with the proposal... Otherwise, one will be preferred over the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3466	Please, I would ask this House not to bring the Constitutional Commission into one delicate situation, that we of the two draft laws create one proposal. They're not even the powers of our committee in the Rules of Procedure. The commission is considering draft laws and determines whether they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system. And with regard to their legal-technical processing. So, the Commission has no competence to make two draft laws one. That's a very delicate question. Only the promoter can make clear whether he wants a part of his provisions to be incorporated into another law and that two proposings agree their views, take a look at these two laws. We on the Constitutional Commission, I think the president agrees with me, will consider the law in accordance with our mandates in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3467	Thank you. poslanik Deretić, then Ambassador Dokić So you're giving up. [[STAMMERING]] Is Mišo giving up?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3468	Although I have considered one and the other drafts of the law, I have really paid enough attention, and once and for the other, I have concrete remarks. However, I would generally agree with my colleague, Čolo, which is more so than it might be good if, before we enter into the discussion, after we heard g. Bogićević's opening statement, the Constitutional Commission took a stand on both texts and other legal acts. Here, in particular, as regards the comments themselves, I would point out in principle, therefore, in general, that the remarks I made in the first place would, in principle, also be made when it comes to this legal text. So, the opinion of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3469	Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? Nobody's answering. Thank you very much. I'm concluding a discussion on this point. With one note, that the Commission, in accordance with the Work Programme for the adoption of the Election Law, will do its job by 6:12 and by 15 December, the Commission should prepare a report on one and the second draft of the Election Law for the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3470	Mr Chairman, therefore, as chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Working Commission, I ask that the conclusion be fully specified whether, therefore, what is the obligation of the Commission to constitutional and legal matters regarding the two texts of the draft law, under one. Two, do you intend to put the drafts of these laws today, or is this just as elegant form of coming to some variant, to some proposal, and what will be the work of the Constitutional Commission? 66
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3471	Okay, the question is quite clear. Let's hear it from Ambassador Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3472	My guess was that the chairman didn't understand me and she was justified. I didn't ask the Constitutional Commission to give me an explanation, I asked the motionary. g. Beri's little explanation gave me even more the right to ask a question, to be explained in detail by the promoter - what do you want with the compensatory mandates? A little while ago, I heard there was going to be a combination to achieve proportionality. What proportionality and what proportionality? I've passed a lot of mathematics, and I'm responsibly saying that only one formula can be done that would be understandable to a second-grade primary school student if she wanted to be honest. And I will insist on a simple formula that every high school student on the Election Commission will be able to apply very easily. That's the point. So, please from the proponent's explanation - what does the preferential system mean, what do compensatory mandates mean, what are negative mandates?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3473	Thank you very much. Look, let's just make a deal, please. I'm the one who concluded the debate. As far as the conclusion is concerned, there may be more speeches. Is it Mrs. Perkanović's conclusion? Okay. As for Mr. Dokić's proposal, that's exactly what's going to happen, MP Dokić. The proposal will be referred to tomorrow in this formulation as you suggested it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3474	I just wanted to say, on these two drafts of the law, that they can't be put in one plane, that each one has to be declared, not that there's now some parallel between those two and a real third. To discuss each individual and to make a statement about each individual. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3475	Please, there's no need for this to go. There's no statement today. Because the work programme envisions that by the 6th of this month, the Constitutional Law Commission is suming debates on draft electoral laws. By means of the account, they will tell us 15.12. How are you gonna do that? The stenogram from today's session and those previous meetings that we discussed earlier should be available to the Commission, that, therefore, sums up the debate and says - the remarks concerning the law of Drago Ljubičić's promoter are these, and these. On them, the Constitutional Commission has such an attitude. Comments to the SDP draft law – and here you have to agree, it is not commercially envisaged that the Members' Club, but must agree that one or more MPs, you have all. So it's not a club. Okay, let's know. So, let's know. So, also on the draft SDP MPs, the comments are these and, and the Commission thinks that about them. Is it clear, President of the Commission? Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3476	Yes, Mr. Banjac, it's quite clear, but it's completely irrelevant. It doesn't matter. The question is, what are we going to have at the December 15th session? Are we going to have a new debate on draft laws based on our report on all these points, or are we going to have a bill proposed by an authorised promoter? At this point, it is only important when proposals will arrive and who will propose proposals. Everything else is irrelevant because the proposals will be made. /Consultations of members of the College at the table/
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3477	All right, please, let's get this straight, too, here, that the College here, we've consulted briefly, to see if we're thinking the same thing -- and we always think the same thing. We agree, we don't think the same thing. Please, on the basis of the Commission's report on constitutional and legal issues, on one draft, on the second draft, this House will put only one home in the follow-up procedure. The Parliament will decide on this, by voting here, 15.12 [[whispers from the scene]] If you're looking for that proposal today, we shouldn't be discussing it today. [[someone talking again from the scene]] You'll repeat what you said. President of the Commission, is something clearer? Let's hear it, however, from the President of the Commission. We need to determine, this is an important thing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3478	Please, there's a so-called here. It's a pure variant and there's a so-called. A desirable variant by the College. I really understand you want to include the Constitutional Commission to help in this regard. But, please, the Constitutional Commission is not proposing any other law. Please, the comments from today's debate are addressed to the authorised legislators of one law and another. Authorised proposals should be made known and proposals for laws to be discussed at that time should be established. I know why I spoke at the beginning of the session. That's the problem. Today, when two bill proposals are established, there is no more making one so-called. A preferential law compared to the other, rather than being legally submitted to the amendments both on one and the other, and there may be paradoxical situations. As a result, a possible variant of a single law was needed in connection with the draft electoral law. So we have only one option, and that is, to end today's debate on the draft electoral law, to have the authorised proposings reconsider each other's individual objections, to deliver new texts of draft electoral laws, and then, on the basis of the adopted text, Parliament will decide whether to vote for both, and then the motionors will further propose, or we, as the PSBiH House, will opt for one of those two drafts of the electoral law, and then the proposer who gets the majority will propose it as a proposal for a law on which we will make amendments. Please, I don't want the Constitutional Commission to sneak in here as the new pronoun of some amalgamated proposal for the Bosnia and Herzegovina election law.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3479	Please, brief consultations. 68 Here, a political consensus has been reached that the Commission appointed by the College, together with the Sekretarijat, sums up the debate on one draft and another. To deliver such a summed debate to the promoters to say – we accept this, we do not accept this. What the Proposer accepts, with the starting text going to the Constitutional Legal Commission, which will also say about the starting text, since she has not said so far, and about these additional points. The deadline for this job is first to 6:12, second to 15.12. December 15th is a report on this job, and we have a session scheduled, you know that. Okay. Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to Ad.5. You've got biographies, some biographies, some résumés, some résumés, and some of these others, there's everything. You have quite enough material, you can decide. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Two of them checked in.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3480	Ladies and gentlemen, I said, esteeming the importance of an institution that is first established in BiH, it seems to me that I was right when I asked the BiH Bureau members to send us short biographies of candidates for reasons of purely professional rather than political work that must be done at the level of the main auditor's institution. I must say that there is a process of harmonisation, or harmonisation of accounting standards at BiH level, as is the case in the process of harmonising those standards with international standards. In order for someone to be an auditor and perform that function, he or she shall have an audit exam or an audit of the main auditor. I don't see it here, except for one candidate, where he says he has a deposit for an authorised auditor laid down in '96. For years, I just don't know where it's laid down, because in accordance with the positive legal regulations, if we wanted the chief auditor from France now, it's impossible, because he has to accept domestic legal standards. Since this is unanimity, and since these are political decisions, I publicly declare that I will vote against this way of choosing the most professional people who need to do very responsible and professional jobs until we force them to, and we have long been saying that there must be a profession present. I respect what Mr. Bičakčić said was a very important donation or loans that must enter BiH, but this is not a problem for which the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers know backwards for 10 or 15 days and therefore I publicly say that I will vote against this way of electing the main auditors' experts in the newly established institution.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3481	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of MPs and MPs, I think there is one deep discrepancy between the importance of this function and the way we are trying to break this very important issue. I would only illustrate this by example when MP Bičakčić, the prime minister of the Federation of BiH, is here staying for five minutes, on the way out and saying it is very important, because it is to be named today because the World Bank will not allow new loans if there are no auditors, see these are two completely different views. The World Bank has conditioned this, believing that there is a need for professional, independent people who will truly perform their political, or professional function. Mr. Bičakčić saw this as another possibility of fraud, so we will under professionally insert the name and last name, each plan 69 of the Presidency he remembered at some point will insert his personal representative, similar, etc. And so, in a certain way, we're going to cheat, slightly speaking, overcoming that problem. The SDP is deeply opposed to such a way. It is not by chance that Parliament must approve of this thing. With the approval of the appointment of auditors, this Parliament takes responsibility. In this way, with such résumés, or data, not creating an opportunity to truly be appointed professional personnel. We suspect that the function of the auditor will be at that level, which is why the World Bank has conditioned the granting of further loans. Therefore, the SDP cannot support such a designation. We propose that a special group be formed within Parliament, if there is a need for some kind of survey committee, which will talk to the candidates and then give Parliament a statement of possible human resources solutions. I particularly point out, it is quite late, we have already broken an agreement in order to complete the work of today's session so that we should not break this issue across our knees, given the powers of the auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3482	We have recently adopted the Revision Act and as much as we remember, and I can remind you, it is an audit of the BiH institutions' business. I don't see any of the candidates having a job experience in such institutions, or budget spending, please, the budget is controlled, its use and other costs to be incurred. I guess everybody needs to get into the budget, so I miss that experience, and this is what I came out to say, if we're going to form any group that has that in mind. Secondly, the law provides for a parliamentary committee, namely a committee to be formed unparliamentary, I apologize. A commission that may even be parliamentary, I can't remember exactly now, I'm tired, which will consider the reports of these auditors. So that we don't get into a situation to be late, so we make a roast before Christmas, it's better to sit down and think about it right now, not at this session, but for the next sessions to form that commission because when the report comes on the agenda, then it's gonna be too late to build a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3483	Thank you very much. I want to say something, too. Dear Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I would like to say why I was here to put this item on the agenda, I was for the reason that it was in accordance with Article 4, point 4. The constitution under a) BiH, we should put it on the agenda, and the second is what I think of it as a man. I want to remain consistent with what I think. I think it is a good proposal from Mr. Tokić that we should not be here, so we miss that by raising our hands, we simply underestimate ourselves in this parliament and not rush to human resources when it comes to such responsible places at BiH level. Therefore, I think it is one thing to put on the agenda, but this is also an opportunity to tell future members and the BiH Council of Ministers and members of the BiH presidency, that it will not be easy to pass by anyone when it comes to giving consent from this home. In that direction, it's one thing to put it on the agenda, and the other thing is what I think about it. I mean what I said. I will also not support these solutions. 70
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3484	Since this is obviously not going to be today, we will not even be making a statement, I hope, because obviously we do not have the elements to decide, for the next meeting and for the future, I suggest that there be a view of the Assembly when it comes to staff issues that whoever is the promoter, along with written explanations, must send someone who will answer additional questions. I keep repeating behind this pay phone that this assembly, this assembly, the BiH Council of Ministers and members of the BiH presidency underestimate us, they ignore us. How long we'll tolerate it. Please, without such work, my proposal, with written explanations and a representative who will give answers to the questions asked, is not to put materials on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3485	Thank you very much. Please, as chairman, I want to inform you one more time, and you've had a chance to see it. Only one of these materials has a signature, and the rest is delivered to us, this could have been written, I'm sorry, I'm not saying this isn't true, but this can be written like this by anyone. Please, there's nothing here... nothing, no signature, no seal, no obligation. Then I don't trust this if it's not an obligation. I'm also saying that one of them has some kind of signature, and the other one has nothing. So I suggest that we not plead on this point, but rather postpone it by 15, with the comments and suggestions that have been made here. We are asking for detailed information on each candidate from the BiH presidency and a single proposing representative to answer questions before a statement is asked here.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3486	Mr. Chairman, we're asking if there is no commission to make some parliamentary commission to talk to these people. Then for the budget, maybe the best thing...
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3489	Here is Ambassador Tokić to be completed and then Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3490	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to form a special group here, but let the College organise representatives of all parliamentary parties to be able to talk to these people or otherwise get more information. At the same time, I propose that for the next 15th session, at the same time, we have a parliamentary obligation to form, which is, by the way, said, which is also a commitment from the Madrid Declaration, a commission to be formed by the PSBiH House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and to solve one and another issue at the next session, and that the College finds a form so that all parliamentary parties and Members of Parliament can reach a greater number of information. Thank you. 71
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3491	If it's all right with you, MP, it'll be 10 o'clock at that meeting in front of the session.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3492	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3493	I'm in favour of that, in accordance with what you've delivered us, that a session that doesn't end must continue the next day, that one day we do what we did to ourselves. For me, this is a mature decision-making act, to return the BiH presidency, we are against, and that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should consider whether it is in the law, these are the BiH presidency's intelligence. We can't take the information that we're going to form a task force, but if we give consent, we have to say how we see this problem. Let's get this straight, 'cause we put it on the agenda. We have received materials that do not satisfy the taste of MPs, and that after the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH defines its powers regarding this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3494	Please, now we have two proposals, one that says we don't have enough elements for a valid decision, to generalize it, but to implement, let me say, the process of obtaining these elements so that the others can be properly decided, based on what we have to decide. That's the easiest thing to say to each other. The statement is, and if we say so, it will be decided at the next congregation and that is the statement. I have to tell you, if we're going to watch the Rules of Procedure, then we should have taken this point off the agenda. The material didn't arrive. We have two suggestions. Do both of the proposings agree? One is to decide with the documents we have. Second, to postpone the decision for the next session due to a lack of information on candidates. That's not it, Tokić, it stays. First of all, we have to go like this. Who's to suggest that today is based on what we have. Let people vote whatever they want. How much is it? - 14 out of 27. There's a majority in the first round. We have to vote entityally. Who's in favour of deciding today from the Federation of BiH. There is no necessary majority, no need to decide today. We're going for a second proposal. Let's vote. Who is in order to postpone for the next session with the provision of all the necessary information according to Mr Tokić's proposal, of course, it is also the presence and the proposing, we know this proposal. - 15 There's a lot of them. In the second round of the Federation of BiH, who's in favour? - 11 From RS, who's in? - Five. So, he passed this proposal. Is there an intervention? There is. 72
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3495	My intervention will be very precise. There are two options, Mr. Chairman. One is to interrupt the session now and continue it where you finished it, that means that this item of the agenda has been expanded. The second is to continue the session with parliamentary questions and to realize that this one is finished and to put the 15th item on the statement again. However, we have had a unique opportunity to the authority that proposes the main auditors, all three of whom are younger than the youngest in this House, and I really appreciate youth. However, the main financial auditor of the BiH institutions and for not enough elements and so quickly, ahead of the Parliament's session, we had a unique opportunity to try to establish a balance on which at the BiH Presidency meetings, in front of each BiH presidency member and all their advisers, there are always four juices and two different acidic waters, on the BiH Council of Ministers, the same, and in this parliament, there is no acidic water for MPs, Mr Banjac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3496	I think this point was brought in this way at the end. We're moving on to parliamentary matters. Point 5 is complete. Do we have any parliamentary questions? No, there is, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3497	I would like to conclude that none of the MPs who asked a question at the previous meeting of the House of Representatives, nor at previous meetings, have received any response from the BiH authorities, or from the BiH Council of Ministers. I believe, Mr. Chairman, that it is high time that you, as a College, did not cross the bats over ignoring the authorities in BiH, parliamentary demands and parliamentary issues. I think it's one of your basic, working duties as the chairman of this house.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3498	I accept this finding. I think she's very important. We, through the Secretariat, can document it to you through the reports, to see that we have updated some answers and is being deaf again, only what would be good here, which the MP may have indirectly said, to see who he is most often does not suit us, if, for example, the Council of Ministers of BiH, if we can do something, to do. I think this is a good finding, and I would suggest that we see who is who most often doesn't answer questions, MP questions, asked at this home. Okay, what's there?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3499	I don't have a question, I just have one suggestion. Since the 15th is in some way reorganised for the debate on the Electoral Law and, which is quite all right and including the proposal on auditors, I am asked a question that is very precise. In 73 previous meetings, within the framework of initiatives for Southeast Europe and the Stability Pact, it is clear that in February and March there will be a donor conference on the whole of Southeast Europe, on the other hand, it is clear that next week it is decided which projects will be run by the participating countries. I would like to ask, in this official and precise manner, for Parliament to request information from the Council of Ministers of BiH, with which the BiH Council of Ministers comes before these meetings which, in some ways, judge many relations on BiH. On the other hand, in less than a month, we take responsibility as a country that will host this work table for security and security. To date, we do not have a clear, at least in the BiH Parliament on this point, and I think that these two issues deserve a full priority both in the work of the BiH Council of Ministers and in the work of the BiH Parliament, and finally I want to ask the question again, does the Council of Ministers think that it does not present a document concerning economic policy and social policy involving the two homes? What's going on with that? Why don't we have that document by now?
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3500	Thank you very much. poslanik Dokić. If he won't get into the stenogram, he better get into the stenogram, if that's the question. If it's a question, it has to go into a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3501	On behalf of the Foreign Policy Commission, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a report on the completion of the DKP, on the activities under way, and we concluded that it would come to the next assembly. One passed, another passed, no answer. I think it's such a serious question, that extreme indifference has been shown, or whoever was supposed to deliver the report, or you co-ordinate, if you didn't deliver it in writing to them to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-12-01-0.u3502	Thank you very much. This concludes today's session. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 1925 hours.
