ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get started. I would like to welcome you all, Mr MPs, or delegates, members of the Council of Ministers, guests and representatives of the information funds. I am opening the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and I propose the following 1. Proposal for a Law on Administrative Taxes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act, 3. Legislative questions. We agreed on this agenda to the College. I'm asking if there's anyone to supplement the agenda or change the agenda? If not, can we make a statement on this agenda? Who's up for this agenda? Thank you very much. Do you mind? Abstained? I realize that we unanimously adopted the agenda, and I don't think there's any need to vote on the clubs of the people. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda Ad.1. The proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina This law has been given to you recently and I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on administrative fees for Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Malić Momir.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-0.u244	Since, according to our assessment, the constitutional basis for the adoption of the BiH Administrative Tax Act is serious, MPs - Serbian MPs from the RS House of Peoples want to check this one more time, especially through the Council of Ministers to return 2 again, and through our government, and Serbian MPs will not be able to vote for this law today. We suggest we postpone for the next session while we work this out.
ParlaMint-BA_1999-07-27-0.u245	The proposal is to postpone the declaration of this law for the next session of the House of Peoples. Since this House of People makes decisions by consensus of all three peoples, I don't think we need to plead on this proposal. I find that in the meantime, a report has arrived that 13 MPs are present, from the order of Hrvat 4, Bošnjak 5, are from the order of the Srbin four MPs. So we have a quorum for normal work. Moving to the 2nd point of the agenda Ad.2. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Citizenship Act Is anyone answering for a word? Here you go. Mr. Ristić. Ristić Mr. Chairman, colleagues, Serbian MPs will vote for this item of the agenda, by holding a vote to conclude that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposes that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Citizenship of BiH, it intensifys activities to prepare a platform for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Croatia on dual citizenship and with Yugoslavia, too, diplomatic relations, to intensify the preparation of a platform on the conclusion of bilateral agreements on dual citizenship with the SR Yugoslavia, meaning, and with Croatia. That's what we need to get to the bottom of. We got those conclusions, which was at the House of Representatives, and we're going to vote for this bill. Thank you very much. Is anyone else answering for word? If we do not have any more debates, I propose a law on BiH citizenship for a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. I find that the BiH Citizenship Act has been unanimously adopted. At the same time, Mr Ristić's proposal for a conclusion was read. Is there any need to read again? (No) 3 I am making a statement of the proposal for a conclusion given by Mr Ristić. Who's in? I conclude that the conclusion that it is up to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to propose to the BiH Presidency that, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on Citizenship of BiH, it intensifys its activities in preparing a platform for the conclusion of a bilateral agreement with the Republic of Croatia on dual citizenship, establishing diplomatic relations, intensifying the preparation of a platform on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on dual citizenship with the SRJ. I find he was unanimously adopted. Moving to the 3rd point of the Ad.3. Delegate questions. Who's answering for a word? If we do not have reports, I am closing the 7th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, with thanks to those of you who attended. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 4:30.
